 you you you you thank you recorded in progress good morning the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for February 7th 2023 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting like aται and This new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of call-to-con to offer comment and the time for commenting, and the time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. If you wish to receive your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, where the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay. Ms. Better Braza. President or morning madam good morning. Mr. Shepherd. Good morning Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Good morning Madame Chair and President. Good morning, Miss Wewel. Good morning, President. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning Madam Chair, President. Good morning, and Mr. Collins. Madam Chair. Good morning. Okay, Mr. Stembridge, when I'll be in. What could be happened? I'll be first out and we have one of the agenda's morning is the board officer relationship. The candidates would share our Sherry Dawn, but Deputy Chair Katie, we were with Secretary myself, the most important, and Deputy Secretary David Pake. Do I have a motion? Is that for our chair? Yes. Oh, yes, I would like to make a motion. I am happy to support the slate of candidates for the Chair, the Chair, Secretary, and the Secretary. So I make a motion to approve this slate of candidates. Thank you, Mr. Valencia. Do I have a second? Second. Thank you. It's better, Baraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Wish us luck. Congratulations. Next, any agenda we have to extension 9.30 AM. Do we have approval of the minutes first? Oh, we won't. This week, manager. I'm sorry. We don't have any minutes this week. Okay. Great. Thank you. Sorry. That's quite all right. But extensions 9.30 AM. First case number, the VIA 1070807, address of 1503, 118, the applicant is John. Forgive me. Oh, gee. Mr. Progeny, are you on? Or is someone representing 150 River Street? Yes. Okay. He is on one second. Oh, great. Thank you. Thank you. We are just on this. Okay. This is making a panel. It's right now. Go ahead once. You and me. So. Morning. Madam Chair, can you hear me now? Yes. We can. Good morning, John. If you could just. Briefly, let us know the reason. The need and reason for the extension. Sure. 150 River Street. This is a partnership between the planning office for urban affairs and the Caribbean integration community development. It is a 100% 30 residential unit affordable housing with AMIs between 30 and 70%. And this was proved by the ZVA on January 29, 2021. As you guys know, this is involved funding sources from many different places as well as going through the Rears Office of Housing. And reviewing on the plan. So we're actively engaging all that and due to the time constraints with obviously financial issues at this point. We're requesting a one year extension to January 29, 24. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to make great extension to January 29, 2024. Thank you. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Luewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a nice day. Thank you. Thank you. Have a nice day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. On behalf of order瑩-by. Mr. Valencia address of 6, 4, worthless. One we have Up front. Thank you. We're hermano. That case number be. On the 907. 90644. Address to six co-curced treat. 14 aplikant is can be properly and Okay. We're asking for one year extension for the, and for a couple of reasons. One is the, our BPD approval took about 10 or 11 months. And after that, we engaged with few design firms. And because of COVID, they were understaffed. And the intersubstantial people, they're completing the design. So we had to look for new design firms. And right now, the design is substantially completely at almost reconstruction documents phase. But we need a little bit more time to plan for the construction. We are fully committed to the project. It just that we've been impacted by COVID. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to ran extension, but one year, I'm not sure exactly what date from today is fine, Tom. The date dates are from February 26, 2023 to February 26, 2024. All right. Mr. Chair, I'd like to make an extension to February 26, 2024. Thank you, May I have a second? I can't. Okay, Mr. Berberasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewill. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Thank you. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next case, be aware, 105-0294 addressing. 822-031. Applicant is Doreen. A model. Is Doreen or anyone representing a present? Pizzaan. I'll send a request. I'll be here. Okay. Good. Doreen. Here's a model. Yes, she's on. Hello. Hello. Yes, we can hear you just briefly let us know the need for the extension. My name is Leandro Le Do. I'm speaking from my mom Doreen Amato, who's sitting right next to me. Hello. We're just asking for a year extension. Obviously because of COVID and my mom was sick. We had to put everything on hold, but we're ready to move on now. So we're just asking for another year extension. Is this November 24th the dates? This is the first extension request and the dates are from February 17th, 2023 to February 17th, 2024. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to grant extension. Till February 17th, 2024. February 27th, 2024. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a second? A second. Thank you. Ms. Bader Farazor? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Luewell? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next case we have is B08106909. 470 address of 2335 to 37 Congress. Would one the applicant is Lorraine Chattino? Excuse me. Is Lorraine or any of the representatives present? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. And congratulations on your. Good luck. Thank you. So. Attorney Lorraine Chattino with the Address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. This. I'm seeking a one year extension on 235 to 37 Condo Street. This board voted to grant variances back in 2020 to erect a grant for the first time in the year. This is very diligently working towards achieving their permit. And we do expect that to issue very soon. We are seeking a one year extension from the original expiration date. So from December 11th, 2022 to December 11th of 2020. The green. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to grant the first extension. It expired on December 11th, 2022. So this would be an extension. This motion would be an extension. So December 11th, 2023. Okay. Thank you. And may I have a second? Second. Ms. Barbaraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. As well. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm good luck to all of you as well. Thank you. Next we have case number B-O-A-773-5-8 with an address of 6 Evalon Street, 1114. The applicant is MyLAM. Is this person present or any of the representatives? Yes. Mr. Lambe. Mr. Lambe. No. If you're on from the right to hand. On to this program. Do not see them. Don't let them check in in there. Okay. Tom, is this a D-Wop? Yeah, I'm sure you've been to not with that president. You can reapply pretty in ten to your blood. I've still another day. All right. May I have an emotion for a motion? Motion for denial without a part of this. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Ms. Bette-Beraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewel. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Mr. Schepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Schepard. Yes. Mr. Schepard. Next we have case number B-O-A-1-1-0-0-0-9-7. Address of three O-curve with 14. The applicant is Jeff Durego. Is Jeff Ford. Okay. And there is a companion case with that B-O-A-1-1-0-0-0-7. With that address of five O-curve street. Also with 14 and Mr. Durego. Yes. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Mr. Durego. Yes. Yes. I am. Marant K. We just had a cold and finance thing delay. So we're just looking for a one-year extension for these. From what date? Mr. Lynch. Do you have the information? the first extension which required on November 13th of 2022. Perfect. So that will be in line for an extension until November 13th of 2023 this year. Yeah, I have a motion. I'll make a motion to grant the extension until 11th. I mean, November 13th, 2023. I have a second. Second. Second. Thank you. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Relatia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Thank you. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have, we'll find an opportunity. 9 to the year. Case number. Number 8, 9 to 6, 5, 5, and 3, 2, 61, 3, 6, the applicant. Ryan Spitz. Ryan or any representative? Present. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz. With that, I'm just a Marancy Business Adress of 168 E Street, First floor, South Boston. This is an amendment to an open ERT permit which was approved by this board back in approximately September 2019. The applicant is here today proposing to amend the approval to eliminate the rare spiral staircase from the fourth floor to the use roof deck in the rare and provided in close stairway, approximately 56 square feet for access only directly from the route to the roof deck. Further, the applicant proposes to eliminate the fourth floor rare deck and to extend the living space of the bedroom by approximately a minimum of 111 square feet while maintaining the approved footprint of the building. Also, the layout of the first floor will change to increase the dimension of the bedroom by a mere 10 square feet. The original approval showed the rare deck and the exterior stairway extended to the property line, resulting in no change with the new overalls to the rare yard setback. The total of approximately 177 square feet will increase the existing living area which resulted in a diminimous violation of the FAAI. At this point, I'm going to turn it over for any questions or concerns. We could just focus on page two of the drawings that will show exactly what we're proposing here. Thank you, Mr. Spitz. Is there better browser? Any questions on the plans or concerns? The drawings are adequate. This is very minor. I don't see any issues with it. The pen house is out of public way and we almost prefer an option to have direct access from the unit below. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Tom, remind me public testimony or no? Not if you don't think it's necessary, Madam Chair. Not based on what Mr. Berraza said. May I have a motion? I'd like to make a motion, Madam Chair, of approval with the PDA design review. Thank you, Madam. Second. Second. Thank you. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wiewelwell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Scherer, awesome. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Move on to 9.30 AM hearings. At this time, we'll ask. If there are any deferrals. Yes. Can you state your name and address for the record? And my project is this one? Yes. Hi. Madam Chair, Chairwoman. I'm a member of the board. My name is Alfons Ossier. I'm an architect. I'm representing my client. The address is 16. I'm more straight and boss them. And my client is looking to defer the project at this point. Thank you. May I have a motion? Or are there any questions? I'd like to make a motion for you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Scherer, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Scherer, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Scherer, also votes. Yes. Motion carries. How much time do you need? Could we have, I think the client would go on. I don't know if there's a set date, but at least two months a month, we'll be sure how it works. Mr. Stembridge. Where we have, over, is April 11th at 11.30. Okay, April 11th. Okay, sounds good. Thank you. All right, thank you. Have a great day. Bye-bye. Any other deferrals for 9.30? All right, hearing none. Let's proceed, Mr. Stembridge. Certainly. Next, the case, B-O-A-141-5291. The address was 62 Hane Street, what one? The applicant is lighting the real sea. L-L-C is anyone here through represents? What you're really thinking? Yes, good morning, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair. Congratulations on your election. It's on offices at the board. Thank you. My name is Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street. E-Spawns, on behalf of the petitioner, the 62 Hane Street. With respect to the petition, there are a few matters that are before the board. The first is G-Kide compliance. I'm not sure if the board is in compliance with the data. Can we meet that person if they're not part of this presentation? Yes, thank you. Mr. Lins, sorry. No problem, Madam Chair. I believe we have two matters. First, the G-Kide compliance. Secondly, the request for a starting relief. I'll take it out of whatever order the board wants to hear it in. I think if you just discuss them together, it's fine. Just, yeah, thank you. With respect to G-Kide, we do have the No Harm Liner. I'm sure Mr. Semelik can confirm that as well. He is confirmed by email. He's not present today. Thank you. With respect to the proposed project, Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing nonconforming structure located in the Jeffries Point section of East Boston. It's not conforming only by way of the mention, not how to use currently, is a refanely dwelling, which is permitted in the 3F 2000 district where this property is located. If we can slide down to a slide eight, just so we can see a quick street view that will help us a little more context of the proposal. With respect to what we're proposing for this site, Madam Chair, we are proposing a complete renovation of the existing structure. Currently, this structure contains, as I mentioned, three units, total of eight bedrooms. Our proposal would reprogram the entire building, and change the occupancy from three units to four, but actually reduce the number of bedrooms from eight bedrooms to six bedrooms. The proposal while improving the building itself, including the life safety, will allow us to basically do all of the renovations within the footprint of the building. So we're not proposing any addition on the building itself or any height increase to the building. This is all done within the envelope, the existing structure, which will allow us to create one additional unit. The unit mix will be two studio units and two by-level two bedroom units. The two studio units will be located on the lower first level with the two bedroom units by-level being entered on the second level with access from internal stairwell to third. We do propose to include a roof deck for each of the upper level units. So units three and four would have roof decks that we access from an internal stairwell in hatch. And so we would be essentially creating additional outdoor space for that upper level. One of the features of adding the roof deck that we are proposing is currently there is an old head house on the building. In connection with this project, we would actually remove the head house, which would improve, I believe, the sightline for the building itself from surrounding neighbors. I see that we have a little technical difficulty with some of the slides, but I'm happy to pause if there's any specific questions. Absolutely. Now, until we can get that out. Thank you. Any questions on the plans, Ms. Mediraza? Thank you, Madam Chair. The drawings are adequate. My only question would be, are you open to restoring those window openings on your latest drawings? On the second floor in the kitchen, it seems like you can use a window, work with an existing window, and then on the third floor, to have light and air into that bathroom as possible. So those are only kind of my questions for the applicant. If we could just advance maybe one more slide. It will show the comparison of the proposed existing on the proposed. I'm not sure if you could address Ms. Mediraza's question regarding the windows, but I don't think that's a tall list. I don't think that would be a wish. Definitely. Definitely work with me. Great. Thank you. That was just my own new concern. Thanks. Madam Chair, if I could just add one other thing for the record. Yes. This project did have a robust community process, and one of the things I did commit to on behalf of the applicant was a couldn't be agreement. We worked directly with the butters to our rear to incorporate a fence of prayer selection, as well as a number of commitments regarding the construction of this project and the joining project next door. One of those commitments also included creating because we are providing an impact, and we are requesting relief for the one additional parking space that would be required for this project. We did make a commitment that our kind of being documents would make one of the units ineligible for resident parking, certainly because of a parking concern in the immediate vicinity. So I do want to put that on the record. I know there's probably somebody here to speak on behalf of the above, because I'm sure that was included as well. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Let me take public testimony. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office, like, deferred to the judgment of this board. I send back information on the community process, ONS Hosts and the butters meeting on June 8th of 2022. One of the butters attended the meeting and had questions regarding construction plans and requests to avoid closing the street, also voice concerns regarding parking. The applicant then went on to the Jeff Rees Point neighborhood association and made June of 2022. The association voted to oppose 17 residents against eaten favor in five abstaining. Members of the association voice concerns over disturbance, annoys from the roof decks and loss of privacy for neighbors. Residents also voice concern regarding parking in the area and existing density of the area as well. That's when the applicant agreed to restrict unit one from accessing the resident parking program. Our office so far has received 15 letters in support and one letter in opposition. I would that we deferred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Mr. Newman. Jessica, any other testimony? I do have a raise hand here. Kate, when are you looking to get testimony on this proposal? Yes, that would be wonderful. Can you hear me out, right? Yes, please. The state's your name and address for the record. Go ahead. Yes, my name's Keel and Andrea Alcourt, and if you need my video, I don't know how to turn it on, but I'm happy to do so. No, just your address. I think that's a ten-goddard street number one. Some of them are directly behind. It, this has been a difficult conversation for the community. As you can see at first, we really have a lot of challenges with this, although I have to say that the team has really come to the table with some great options. We were able to provide 11 letters of support just through direct organizing. However, if you see all those letters state that there is support given that the unit with relief is a two bedroom, not one of the studios. Unfortunately, when we got to the agreement yesterday, the client changed his mind on that other agreement. If there's any, like, it would mean a lot to the community. If there was any possible way for the parking restriction to go in as we had agreed on on January 27th. Thank you. Thank you. And no additional resistance. Would you like to respond to that, Mr. Lens, before we go? Yeah, just briefly. I do apologize when we had gone through the conversations back and forth. I was on the understanding when the request was made that this be specifying a two bedroom unit. I believed erroneously at the time based upon our projects, I had to do all two bedrooms. So I didn't think it was an issue. And looking back, we are reducing the bedroom count this building from 8 to 6. So the actual bedroom density for this project is reducing. We did commit to including one unit, preferably a two bedroom. However, we said based upon just the way the condo process works. And we couldn't necessarily commit to that right now. We certainly would commit to one unit, whether it's a one bed or studio or two bedroom, would remain to be seen until substime as the condo docs were finalized. So we do make the commitment to do that. I just can't commit to the two bedroom at this time. Thank you, Mr. Lins. Mr. Hampton. Do you have a recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. It was the board, Jeff Hanson, BPD. We recommended a purple with design review on this. Any other questions from the board? With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD.A. Design Review, paying special attention to that front elevation to bring back lay in there and to the two. And I'm sorry. To BPD design review, paying special attention to the front elevation. Thank you, Madam Chair. Seconded up. Thank you. Ms. Bedgaranza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weowell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. But Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-O-A-139-3437. Address of 338-B to 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38. 38.heavy are Gothic belts is a Italian restaurant specializing in a very small menu of Italian sandwiches for just for takeout only. As you can see here, the space is approximately 286 square feet. Our reserve operation will be from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Peter, who's joining us today, will be the operator. He comes here with an extensive background with 17 years of experience in the restaurant industry. At this point, time we're gonna pause for any questions from the board. And just to confirm, any work is internal, correct? Yes. Thank you. Any questions from Ms. Betabraza on the plans? No questions, Madam Cham, plans are adequate. Thank you. Any other questions from members of the board? Madam Chair, I had a question for Mr. Hampton regarding the recommendation for design review. This seems pretty minor, so with that design review, would it be for like the fine elevation or? So I only wanted if there are exterior changes. If there aren't any exterior changes, I don't want to see it. Okay, thank you. Thank you. All right, with that, may I take public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling on you in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information on the community process, our office held in a butters meeting October 19th of 2022. There were no concerns raised at the time from a minute standing, and the applicant then went on to NURO, which sent a letter of support from this proposal. With that, we deferred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other additional elected officials office? Here in Nama, go to I-Leen. You're looking to give testimony here? Actually went off. I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion for approval. Thank you. You may have a second. For a second. Thank you. Mr. Ted Baraza. Yes. Mr. Shiper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weel. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Mr. Chenkary. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. You're welcome. We can't see you right now. We can't see you or here. You right now. No more. No more. I'm glad you're here. But I think we're actually. Technic. Okay. Sounds like they're having a tough time. I'm glad you're here. Are you here? Yes. We are on our way. We're here. Are we live again? Yes. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. We are. Yes. Yes. Thank you. I think we're on the way. Unfortunately. I'm not sure about that. Oh, okay. Do you want someone else? Are you mad and true? Yes. We can. If you want to read the next case, I'd like to show you. Yes. The next case. Give me. Your way. What? for the federal staff for the reset. 185 right street is the outcome present or so for representative. Yeah, you know, Brennan here. Good morning. Can you put your joint address into the market? Okay. Well, I guess we have a little bit of a little bit of the work. Sounds like we're proceeding with the six member board until norm gets back on. That can have a can put your name and address in the record and just let us know what your proportion. Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair board members. My name is Daniel Brennan with DPP design. I think everybody. Oh, no, you're. I think the screen itself is frozen. I think we can proceed with your case and let's figure out what we do for me. Daniel Brennan with DPP design. I'm representing just salad. It's a new restaurant going in over at 185 Franklin Street over at Post Office Square. We're looking for relief for a restaurant with takeout. There is a big one. It's all for you. It's all for me. And the former tenant was Halen Hardy and another takeout restaurant. Sadly, they went out of business during the pandemic over there. So we're happy to bring another restaurant in. It's a nice fast casual healthy option for the square. We did the neighborhood outreach process and it was received very well. So we've also engaged with landmarks because it is a pending landmark building with our signage and that's under review as well. Thank you. Any any changes there exterior? Only changes is updating the signage basically replacing what's existing. Great. And interior is going to be renovated. The general layout staying the same. Yeah. Thank you. Any concerns or questions on the plans? Is better browser? I have to share the drawing to add up questions. Thank you. Any other questions from board? With that, I'm going to take public testimony. And the rest Jessica can't unmute people. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Nairsoft's neighborhood services. At this time, Mayor soft sex deferred to the judgment of this board. Our offices are unaware of any concerns regarding this proposal. I'll with that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no resistance. Thank you. Excellent. With that, may I have a motion? I make a motion to approve. Well, I'm sure. Thank you. May I have a second? Okay. Thank you. Miss Leverazo? Yes. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. I think Mr. Schupper is wrong. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Starrer. I think they're. Are they lost? Are they Jessica still having issues? I'm all set. No. Oh, it's. Oh, it's. No, I mean, our, our time and none. Norm is there. I think they're not on. In the meantime, Chef. Yes. I've just been receiving text that City Halls are known as down to. So it might be a city thing. Okay, then. I'll. Okay, well, let's get through this vote. And then I guess we're going to have to find out what we do next. We'll skip over Mr. Stembridge and go to Mr. Collins. Yes. Okay. The chair votes. Yes. Either way. Motion carries. Thank you. I was pleased that one. Okay. This is new territory. So I'm not sure. Jessica, do we have any. Go down. The chair is going to. In the meantime, if anyone's in the attendee section right now, and they need to be elevated to a panelist because they're part of a presentations team, development team. Elected officials office and again, you're in the attendee section right now. Would you mind just raising your hand? Just want to make sure people in the right place will fully understand. You know, as we move forward with the cases, I appreciate it. Just makes it a lot easier. And you just have to accept the panelist designation when it pops up on your screen. Again, any. Any attendee section right now in your part of a presentations team. Architect. Turnie. Please do let us know. Okay. The chair is going to call a break until 10 30 as a city hall and 10 10 Mass App. Try to resolve their technical issues. So let's be back at 10 30 and we'll take it from there. Thank you. Recording stopped. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You Thank you. Ms. Better, Maraza? Here. Mr. Shufford? Mr. Valencia. Mr. Stembridge. President wants to get a matter. Thank you. Mr. Collins. All right. Chair is also present. I guess the cold weather, not only freezes pipes, but the Internet. That's the next case. The next case. The year away. One for one. The next case. The next case. The year away. One for one. The next case. The year away. One for one. One five nine seven. At one twenty five one thirty one wing street. Is the applicant here or one of their representatives? Yes, this is John Radigan. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm with DLA Piper at 33 Archery Bustin. I represent Oxford properties, which is the appellant in this case. The last one I have given you today is the lead architect, Siddell Patel, who will give a presentation about the building. And Mark McGowan, who's the head of Boston development for Oxford, who will be available to answer questions. I'll just give you first a quick word about Oxford and the Requests today, and then Siddell will run through the presentation. Oxford is a real estate investment in development firm in wholly owned by the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System. Because Oxford is investing municipal employee retirement money, it invests in great properties in strong cities like Boston, and it seeks to develop projects that are highly sustainable and which make those cities better. We think we have one of those projects today. A Citadel will describe the project, but it basically involves tearing down an existing vacant building at 125 Lincoln Street. And if you could just stay on that slide for a minute, that would be great. And we're going to create, we propose to replace that existing building with a 323,000 square foot research building, a 12,000 square foot square feet of ground floor retail, and up to 150 parking spaces. To accomplish that, we're here today requesting relief from the zoning code requirements which have been detailed in the appeal, but they are essentially this. We're seeking variances to increase the maximum height of the building from 100 feet to 197 feet, and to increase the maximum permitted FAR from 8.0 to 11.4. We're also seeking relief from certain design provisions which don't work for the building, and conditionally use permits to maintain the current 150 parking spaces and to comply with the groundwater conservation overlay district requirements and the daycare requirements. In support of our application, we've submitted materials which include the appeal itself, which describes everything in greater detail, the BPD8 board memo, which describes the project and the process, the no harm letter and other materials to support the groundwater request and economic feasibility memo that outlines why the relief is necessary and a copy of today's presentation. We've also submitted letters of support, and I know there are people here today who intend to speak on the project. With that background, I'd like to introduce the project to architect Siddled Patel who will describe the project site, its challenges, the context, the community process, and the proposed project. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Radigan. And just on the community process, I believe BPD8 is the project manager for this project is on, so I would like them to focus on that community process. Thank you. Great. All your Siddled. Thank you, John. Good morning, members of the board. Siddled Patel, principal at S9 architecture with the design architect for the applicant. To quickly orient everyone, if you move to the next slide, please. Quickly orient everyone with the project location. The site is three blocks west of South Station and is a hinge between three distinct communities and neighborhoods. The leather district, Chinatown, and the financial district. The site is an irregular shaped lot that is bound by a small parking lot and triangle park. And the tunnel entrance to the I-93 through way to its north, Lincoln Street, to the west, to East, sorry, Beach Street to the South, and is separated from surface road in Chinatown by the I-93 down ramp to the through way. Next slide, please. Oh, sorry. On this slide as well, I just want to point out 79 Essex in blue towards the left. This is an existing building that Oxford owns and we'll be referencing throughout this presentation because it's the proposal location. Of permanently affordable housing. Next slide, please. Wanted to briefly outline for the board some of the characteristics of the site that makes its development uniquely difficult. The project site is currently occupied by an above grade 1950s parking garage well past its useful life. As I mentioned before, the site itself is an irregular shaped lot. And it's effectively accessed only on two sides. With the I-93 tunnel entrance towards the west preventing any direct access to surface road and towards the north, it is isolated from Essex crossing by a small triangle park and street parking, a small parking one. With only two viable sides to access the building, the development team had a very difficult time and latitude. Planning things, locating things like loading dogs, curb cuts, building entry and achieving continuous retail. Additionally, there are also significant urban design challenges around our site that we felt needed to be addressed. The physical separation of the site from Chin Park and the leather district by a wide street at surface road, as well as the tunnel entrance. A poor pedestrian experience because of narrow sidewalks along both beach and Lincoln, as well as towards Essex crossing, a very little used park triangle park that leads to a significantly unsafe intersection at Essex crossing. Next slide, please. So, BPD is going to speak to process, but we have gone through an extensive and exhausted our glady process. Through this process, we did try, we were very hard to respond, both to site challenges and community concerns. With the height and bulk of the building being of central concern conveyed to us. We sought to address this concern in particular by changing the use, reworking floor plates to be more efficient, address adding setbacks along Lincoln Street and redistributing floor area horizontally or the I-93 tunnel, all of which, as you can see here, led to a reduction in height over time. Next slide, please. So, briefly, our goals, the development team's goals, we believe are consistent with that of the community. We're placed above great garage and in doing so, bringing energy and economic activity to three neighborhoods, meaningful investment in the public realm, activation of the ground floor, and stitching the neighborhoods together at the ground plane, and also investing significant resources in the city's housing crisis, and also having a decarbonizing building. All of these goals we feel we've met or exceeded with this project. Next slide, please. The site plan, this is the proposed site plan for the project highlighting some of the solutions we developed in concert with the city and community. Chinatown is towards the top of the page, SX crossing to your right, and then Lincoln Street's off through the middle here. We're proposing strengthening the connection between Chinatown and the leather district with an improved beach street, surface road intersection, a welcoming carpet of sorts, and accomplishing this through table topping of the intersection and all of beach street. Partial capping of the I-93 lamp to create a plaza that complements Chinatown Park. The plaza would be activated and secured by active retail on the corner of beach and surface road. A pedestrianized beach street with landscaping and a wider sidewalk, a full block of retail activation along beach street between surface road and the city. And also a commitment to planning this in a way that would accommodate a banquet hall, something that was communicated to us is very critical and important to the Chinatown community. In an effort to reinforce the connection between SX crossing and the leather district, we're proposing renovation to the triangle park and eliminating of the small parking lot and toughness of the city. We're proposing a lot of building and tough street extension. We do this through a discontinuance of tough street. That allows us to internalize our loading and all the truck turning that serves the building on our site. Down here in the lower right there's also a commitment for Moxford to renovate leather district park. Over the boat to the I-93 tunnel represents the extent of the building pushing out over the tunnel. And is achieved through structural gymnastics and acquisition of air rights. I'm sorry. Can you focus on the violations? I realize you probably have a full blown presentation that we have like 20 or 30 cases after this. Thank you. Well, I'll do is I basically just try is it okay if I just skip through to the end? Sure. So if we can move through to I think the appendix has the violations. So I think through these to the next series of slides we were just talking about public improvement and what we propose to bring in terms of the ground plan and public benefit. These are the zoning relief conditions that that we seek. John did you want to speak to this? Do you want me to go ahead so. So conditional use I'm just going to read through the so it's conditional use permit for article six and 32 conditional use permit. So I'll six or four zoning code respect to the parking garage. There's obviously. There's a. An abatement with regards to facilities. The height and FAR we are seeking relief. Variance is for specific requirements with respect to the ground you ground plane use street street wall set back all speak towards. The height and bulk of the building and those branches that we seek. And in the windows along surface artery and finally the principal entrance we're looking we're locating along. So we're looking at the same. And so we're looking at the same. Lincoln Street primarily to achieve full retail. Along the street and also is a play with loading dark entrances as well. Thank you. And I know Mr. Bell chick is here from the BPD. Do you want to just speak briefly on. So I just want to make sure that you folks hear that because they're going to have questions anyway about community process etc. So. Yes. Thank you Madam Chair members aboard. As you mentioned when balance is the chair and the development department of the BPD. So as you alluded to or as part of me as the proponents alluded to this project did have over three years of review a significant number of community meetings. Both BBA sponsored and developer sponsor. Through that process there were significant reductions in massing public realm improvements and beauty benefits that were reached. I do have my colleague. Can and rim on who would be better to speak to. So I think that's a good question. Some of the planning references and how the project meets the BPA and the city's planning goals. That's all right. We'll be ready for honesty now. Sure. Thank you. The morning Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Ken and Ryan M. the deputy director for downtown neighborhood planning. I'm here today because I'm number of twenty twenty twenty two the board approved this project and is seeking for the ZBA to kind of approve the evidences and condition use permits requested. I want to speak a little bit to how the planning team reviewed this because it was a complex project for review. The proposed projects located within article forty four. It's also within the coastal flood resilience. The overlay district and the greenway overlay district. The greenway overlay district reflects guidance of the twenty ten board adopted greenway district planning study. So that's the primary guiding document we use to review the project. The greenway district planning study outlines three objectives to activate the space adjacent to the greenway by introducing active uses that positively contribute to the greenway to ensure the long term value of the greenway by shaping development to maximize the quality of the parks. And to balance development pressure along the greenway with other growth areas across the city guidance for this project specifically prioritize the legibility of the beach street corridor and connecting the greenway to and through Chinatown leather gestic by concentrating active ground floor uses along beach street mitigating the negative impacts on the I 93 amp and associated accessible disconnected and unprogrammed all around. The way district study also recommended the building building an 80 foot tall street wall edge to align with adjacent buildings in a maximum overall height 100 feet to align with the leather district zoning height and void over shadow greenway. So we're the proposed project. Complies with some aspects but not all of it but we do recommend approval for a few key reasons. The proposed Patrick lines with some aspects including the activation of the beach street corridor, the retail face, the public realm and sidewalk improvements in the crossing improvements at Lincoln Beach and service road. The proposed project is not aligned with the high recommendations as they just outlined. The proposed project includes the ability to meet some of the planning goals also outlined by the ongoing planned downtown by providing significant public realm improvements in the neighborhood adjacent to the project site in a affordable housing opportunity at 79 S. Extreme located in Chinatown. 79 S. Extreme is approximately two blocks from the proposed project in the Chinatown neighborhood and is a suitable location for the adaptive reuse of the Chinatown historic building stock while creating 50 to 60 permanently affordable housing units. Thank you very much and please let me know or Quinn know if you have any questions about the BPO review process. With that, let me open it up to questions from the board. Ms. Berraza any questions on the plans? I do have some questions and perhaps the BPD can help answer some of them. One of them is can you explain why the BCDC had some reservations about the project and how were they addressed during the article 80 large review process? The BCDC had concerns with the overall height proposal and as I outlined this is inconsistent with the guidance of the Greenway district plan or the zoning on the height proposal piece. We looked holistically at what some of the opportunities provided by the project and saw the significant competition of permanent affordable housing opportunity in this area as a key criteria along with the activation of the Greenway as another key piece in this. So we thought very hard about the trade offs of that decision when recommending this for board approval. But it seems based on the applicant's presentation that there's a couple of buildings in the vicinity that are higher than what's being proposed and some that are even along the Greenway. Is that correct? They're located in different zoning sub districts or districts. And in regards to shadow that is being casted on the Greenway is probably almost the same length as buildings that are on the Greenway that are taller than the building. The Dispropulse Building, correct? I think that's correct. I can't remember the details of the analysis. I think that's a good assumption. It would be shadowing different portions of the Greenway at different hours than some of the buildings to the North. How many hours on the Greenway is not there's no shadows casted? I don't know. Could someone from the proponent team potentially answer that question? The members of the board, Mark McGillin, Fox, are properties. Thanks. Thanks for the question. Chair Bitter, Boraz is so just on the summary there. 90% of the park is free of shadows by 11 a.m. The Suns arc has impact on most portions of the Greenway before before 10, but but everything's gone by 11. And then please other more members can also jump on some of the questions while I kind of have some of them come up. So one of the most important items were in terms of guidelines to activate B Street and it seems like the proposal does that correct? It really activates the pedestrian activity along B Street. Can you confirm that? It does. And we made a lot of effort to remove the current current cut and activate from property line to property line for a future future use to activate a restaurant. And then the other issue that I had and this is probably more for the BPD. SX Street, there's a property that is being held for there to be permanent before a housing that is owned by the developer, but it's providing only one year for the AC DC to be able to acquire that property. But if it's not being acquired, there are plans that the developer with BPD and Cindy Boston would potentially renegotiate to another developer that provide permanent or by housing on that property. Can you explain why the BPD hasn't provided restrictions in terms of the MMI for that proposal on that building? So we actually have a member from the mayor's office of housing here to testify as well on this project who can speak towards the AMI units. We did not provide a restriction because we deferred to the department to work out the negotiation for work best in this location and for their department. We worked very closely with them to make sure that we were achieving both the planning goals, but current creating an opportunity that was appropriate for this site location using their guidance. And we hear from the representative on from the mayor's office of housing. Can you address that question? Yes, he's on one second. Thanks Jessica. Jessica, just a request. Hello, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes. I guess I can lower my hand. I'm Jessica Biltwright. I'm the deputy director for the neighborhood housing development at the mayor's office of housing. I just want to clarify the question. Is the question about. This is the 79 X X street that there are some. Description on the BPD a memorandum in regards to ensuring that 79 X X street, which is owned by the developer, would remain potentially as an affordable housing development. So it provided in the memorandum one year for AC DC to potentially be able to develop that. But there were no indications to restrictions in terms of affordability. So the mayor's office of housing collectively with the BPD a and AC DC and the developer have been looking at the budget and potential to redevelop the S X street building. It needs a significant amount of work to change it into an all residential affordable building. So the proposal is that it would be developed into a building that would use both. So the linkage funds from this project and some city funding to create the affordability of a of a building would be 100% affordable. So many of our funds come with a deed restriction in perpetuity. So the I guess the projection is that the deed restriction will come at the time of closing on the affordable housing project and that the proponent here, the developer of Lincoln street has made a number of commitments to help support the transfer. Of that property from Oxford to AC DC so the city has a level of confidence that does the path this is going to take. I know that's not quite as specific of maybe what you're what you're going for, but the plan is absolutely that this is going to become an 100% affordable building. And that's and that even goes with the idea that it is not AC DC after one year, it would still remain a building to that would be dedicated towards affordable housing. Yeah, Oxford's contributions associated with this project are specifically dedicated to the creation of affordable housing at S X street. Great. Thank you. If I might be able to help the board understand that unlike other projects that you may have seen, we will not be developing this housing. So the Asian CDC will be developing with assistance as Jessica said from the mayor's office of housing. And so the proportions of AMI and the percent various percentages will be worked out by Asian CDC and Jessica without any involvement from the developer. The developer's commitment is to convey the property to convey several million dollars in support of the thing, but all of the decision making is the cities and Asian CDC's. Thank you. I just wanted to remind you of time. Are there any other questions from the board before we take any of this? One question, Madam Chair. Yes, sir. I pro so the proponents or VP I believe that we stated all the current businesses on the site would be returning. What's the most important thing about existing businesses and they returning or not returning? During the pandemic, the CMARC, which was in the recent business, vacated, we worked with HALA Moon to relocate down the street to S X street right next to 79 S X. We worked collaboratively with that business owner. But upon the opening, we anticipate we really want to work with the neighborhood about bringing another banquet hall to try to sound something that we heard throughout the process. So Mr. McGon just to clarify, is it HALA Moon returning afterwards or to be determined? To be determined. To be determined. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. So the transfer of 79 S X, that building is the transfer is part of the linkage contribution and in addition to that transfer is the development of the development of this 79 S X building or those are two different contributions. If I could answer that, Madam Chair. Yes. The contribution of 79 S X street and the money to support 79 S X street is in addition to the linkage requirements. That's right. We have requested that just because we favor the development of 79 S X and would like to see it succeed at the lowest possible AMI, we have requested that our linkage dollars be put into that project, but that's up to the BPD and the housing member had housing trust. I should say not BPD. Okay. But it's in addition. It's completely separate requirements. It's above your requirements. It's above the linkage requirements. Yes, exactly. Do you have already an agreement with the ACVC for this transfer? We haven't agreed up with the city to provide the land and the building and to provide additional funds. The selection. We've proposed Asian CDC. I think you know is here today to speak to this. But it ultimately is in the mayor's office of housing to make sure that works. Thank you for the question. The reason CDC is our partner to do this. I have another question for Mayor Hall saying I saw that there was a time spent of one year to ACDC. Is there a time spent of one year to make sure that there is no time spent of one year to extend that and further negotiations with the agency and M.O.H.? The one year is about carrying costs and that sort of thing. It's not about whether this is going to happen. It's about when the transfer of first. This is Oxford's committed to making this happen. So I just want to make sure there's time for public testimony. So, word of members of you have other questions. Let's listen to public testimony and circle back on that. Jessica. Do we have? Hello. Yeah. I will. I'll try to be brief since I already got a minute to speak. Thank you. And then we're going to turn it over with public testimony. Thank you. Okay. I just wanted to state that our office strongly supports this project. I think that's as people have been talking about it unlocks increased access to housing for low income Bostonians in Chinatown. It is a neighborhood with really critical need for housing stability and a neighborhood where it's often out of reach for our partners to develop because of the high cost of land and property. And the 125 Lincoln team has committed to help defray those costs. And we're very excited about seeing the Essex Street component of this proceed, which is, you know, as we've heard, intricately tied to 125 Lincoln Street. So thank you to the board and and and we are hoping that that you feel good about a previous project. Thank you. Any other public officials or representatives? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and the board services. You already spoken to several city agencies. This took an extensive three year process. We're hearing from a lot of voices and differing opinions from both Chinatown and the leather district. We received letters of support from the Chinatown Business Association Chinatown Main Streets regarding the proponents commitment to assisting with that linkage fund for 79 Essex Street. We also heard from other voices in the leather district expressing concerns about the height and passing and the potential impacts on the greenway and other shadows in the neighborhood. I would value deferred support. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board and I can let off from council press and fling softness. The councilor would like to go on record support based on a good community process with neighbors, the I.E.G. and city agencies, which resulted in lowering the high and density of the overall project. The project would make investments in much need of our four over housing with approximately 50 units, 79 accessory, street scape and the public welcome green space and park infrastructure in reach of the prior, and the highest communities of color and immigrant businesses council president fling respectfully request that an enrollment team continues to work closely with both the leather district and Chinatown community or many quality of line issues and concerns that may arise during the construction phase in thereafter. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are a lot of raise cancel. Let's try to limit to five four and five against activists. Madam Chair, this is Paul Sullivan to the council of life and make a clarity echoing the sentiments of the conflict of the Flint office, the concept of going record support. We can't hear you. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes. I'm sorry. Paul Sullivan for the concept lock Michael clarity echoing the sentiments of council president flings office, the concept of going record support. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else from our left in the fiscal office? No. Okay. I'll go to Debbie Hope. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Chinatown, in streets. We would like to go on the record that we fully supports this project moving forward. It's both win for the communities. The building at 125 Lincoln Street has been in the stress for many years and we need to just move on to the next decade and improve the development of the community. Thank you. Thank you, minor. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, minor, present in hundreds of Union carpenter's element of work across the Boston. Madam Chair, this has been a long process. Carpenters Union is happy to stand by the BPD for a problem of this project. Good for our way, the inconveniences that made our person we all know this neighborhood will be impossible for many of us to be able to afford. We are so delighted to support this project and the conveniences that is going to bring to the neighborhood. Thank you. Bob, are you looking to give us a son here? Yes, I Bob, the maker from BPD, Madam Chair, members of the board, I was just wondering how many of the spaces are going to be electrified? They can charge the vehicles while they are packed and be at the packed with them. Should we answer that? That's the money or should we? I think we should keep going Bob and they can answer afterwards. Okay. Lawrence? Lawrence Chan? Yes, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm a resident owner who lives directly across the street at 116 Lincoln Street. In association with elisted violations, the proposed project should be held accountable to violations of the guidance purpose of the zoning code, name the Article 1 Section 1-2 to promote the health safety and welfare of the inhabitants of Boston, particularly the historic leather district where the project is cited. The public is demonstrated by public presentations. These violations included a height that is 200 percent of what is permitted, eliminating or reducing water, excellent line for many residents and owners on Lincoln Street, and by diminishing the health and welfare, rather than conserve the value of existing land and buildings across Lincoln Street. The introduction of 150 commuter cars and tractor trailer trucks that serve the property will magnify, not less than traffic congestion on Lincoln Street, especially the RR show and increased air pollution. It is already propagated by vehicles exiting from nearby high-90s-free, meter buses from South Station, two municipal bus lines, shoe buses and numerous little village-based service vehicles that further diminished the quality of adequate air as a health or residence and endangered their safety, especially families with children. The footprint of the building intrudes onto public adjacent land and above great bulk of the size skyscraper violates its property boundaries, powers over the Rose Candy Green Wing, which has additional shadows onto the greenway trying to unpark across the surface. These demonstrate overcrowding the land upon which the project sits, diminishes the conservation value and utility of freshest public park land. I don't know if you're reading from a paper, but can you just summary? We have quite a few people out there. We have a lot of raised cans and everybody else after you, if you're speaking against, please limit your testimony to new items. And I believe we haven't concluded those in favor as well, so it's trying to stay in order after you. One last closing sentence then. I think violations demonstrate the most inappropriate use of the property and should not be granted relief that is sort for my project. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll go to all of us here to speak in favor. Everyone can answer raise. That's true. I can't tell. That's fine. Okay. Mr. Love is an abut who I believe is speaking in favor. I'm sure of that. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair and board members. I am speaking in favor. I live at 112 Beach Street, which is half a block from the site. I'm a 15 year resident of the leather district. I long felt that it would be best for our neighbor to remove the garage and replace it with another building and have more activation of beach and Lincoln Street. And my profession for the last 50 years has been doing real estate development development consulting planning and doing numerous these ability studies. I don't believe, you know, given the value of that property, the having to replace the revenue from the uses that have been there in the past as well as as cover the cost of development costs. I'm a new building that we would ever see a building of 100 feet to replace. It just does not make economic sense from from my long experience and analysis. Therefore, I'm in favor of the board granting the variance. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Michael Rettberg. Hey, everybody. I am a leather district resident. I live at 16 Lincoln Street directly across from the voting dock. I'd like to speak in opposition to the project as I have numerous times over the 60 plus community meetings over the last three years. First, the height and math thing we know is over twice. And the PCD is the unanimous way. It's a very unusual unanimous vote. Of course, this car. Okay. Hi, well. Sorry. Okay. So what, Michael, do you want me to buy you a new supporter opposition of the project? I'm an opposition. He's an opposition. All right. Do you want me to keep going, Madam Chair? I agree to five and five. So we can take two more. Yes, Madam Chair. And if you have submitted written testimony, we do have it. So please again, be brief and build upon what other people have said. I'm a leather district resident architect and I a G member for this project. I'm speaking in opposition. We just saw a side containing a list of the zoning violations contained within the 125 Lincoln Street proposal. It was an abbreviated list. Whether you believe zoning should be a set of roles and regulations that need to be adhered to, or you believe that zoning should focus on goals and outcomes, it is impossible to overlook the fact that 125 Lincoln Street has taken a zero zoning approach. The proposal dismisses almost every condition set forth in both Article 44 and the Greenway District Planning Study. Even after a four-year article 80 process and a vote of opposition from the Boston Civic Design Commission. The proposal places significant burden on its neighbors and the public realm. And I do not see how the board can approve it without undermining both the value of zoning and the legal framework that has been put in place to protect the city of Boston from harmful development. I urge the board to oppose this proposal. Thank you. I'm going to make a next comment. Can I keep a low? We'll do. Yeah, let's try to do one or two more. Megan? I want to add that the DEC voted unanimously against the project. I wanted to address Ken and Rae's comments about improving the Greenway. This will eradicate air space in light. This building is twice the proposed allowable height. and to clarify the question about shadows, it will add up to three and a half hours of shadows on the greenway and leather districts revives is every day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chris? Chris Holbert, can we brief a state of view and support opposition? Hi, I am in support just very quickly on echo what Drew said that this is like an economic quick pro quo. My wife Kate and I live at 108 Lincoln. We are not thrilled about our views and our light being obliterated and the rest of it called it negative consequences. But on the other hand, we are big believers in the need for public realm improvement in additional affordable housing. And so we compromise. We say we don't love it, but if this is what it takes, and I think Drew said it, the economics of the projects are such that you have to build above 100 feet. And so we are in full support of the project. Thank you. I keep going out of here. I think one more and then we have to move on. Thank you. Yeah. Larry Rosen. What do we get to Larry? You're on mute, Larry? Yes. Thank you very much. Larry Rosenblum, I live at one 18th South Street. And I wish to speak in opposition to the project. I'll make this very brief. The bottom line for this project is that the building does not belong on the site or in the setting. And no amount of off-site benefits and architectural slits of hand will change that. The city has no obligation to approve a project just because the proponent tried very hard to make it work. I ask you as the adjudicator of zoning issues to defend your zoning and reject this project, this building will not serve the long-term interest in the lesser district, Chinatown, or the city of Boston. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bimiko, did you have an additional question and saw your hand raised? I'm sorry. Can you hear me, Madam Chair? Yes, did you have an additional question to your electric car question or was that it? Yes, it basically has to do with a like to ask the proponent how many electric charging stations they have in their parking garage. OK, briefly, can you answer that question? I'm not sure who's going to answer it. I can answer that, Madam Chair. The answer is the BTD requirements are that 25% of the spaces will be equipped with electric charging stations on day one. That's 38 spaces in our case. And 100% of the spaces will be EV ready for future installations. So their conduits and stuff will be there and ready for it, ready to accommodate future growth of electric vehicles. Cool. Thank you. With that, are there any other questions from the board after hearing all the comments? I have one further question. Given it, it's a lab level two building. But you have a tenant. And if you don't have a tenant, what is the future program if you can't fit out a lab tenant? Question. We do not have a tenant. But we love this neighborhood. We love this location. We're very confident that we'll find one and get this project moving. So we also designed it just to be flexible. There's cases in Cambridge where an office tenant might want to take this space. So we're redesigned with flexibility, but super confident in the location. Thank you. Just I do see in the chat, as Jessica pointed out, we cannot tell from just you raising a hand, whether you are speaking in support or opposition. And given, we did not give equal opportunity for those in favor, I will let Mr. Simmonia and speak before we proceed. And Madam Chair, did you may or have a position? Mr. Newman, I don't know. Did you have a position? Did you have a position? They just give the. Yeah, OK. Over here. Look at it, do it. Yep. But obviously, we don't BPDA that approves the project. So Mr. Simmonian. Thank you, Madam Chair. All Simmonian, one 11B Street resident owner, I'm speaking in favor, and I'll be very brief. Just point out that economics have certainly changed and saw the studies that folks in opposition point out. And this building is a massive improvement on the site, clearly. What's there is a complete blight on the entire neighborhood. It also is very positive to the area with a lot of improvements that are very desperately needed to keep our area vibrant. Thank you for hearing my comments. Thank you. Sorry. Can we go back to any other board questions, either for BPD or in the component before we take a motion? Any other questions? Any other questions, Madam Chair? Yes. For the proponent, I see you are proposing 150 parking spaces. Is that the maximum that the city allows? And if that is the case, do you have any plans to consider producing the parking units? The number of parking units? So we are, the current garage now has 150 spaces. We're planning on keeping that something that the neighbors were very vocal about was access to parking for them long term. So we've thought to keep as many parking spaces as possible in response to community feedback. So the parking will be shared with the community or only with the tenants? So it's going to be open to the public, and we'll work with the community to make sure there's shared access to the community. OK, no more questions, Madam Chair. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I build off a canister question? Yes, please. We've got to talk right full of time, guys. Yes. So just building off Miss Benna Baraza's question about a change in use. Would the public benefit still carry if there were a change in use from a lab tenant to a commercial office tenant? Yeah, but right now all of our benefits are tied to the building permit in certain thresholds. So as we see it today, those still stand in process. Thank you. OK, with that, may I entertain a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve with BPDA design review with all the noted provisels as outlined in the article 80, B large project review memorandum, specifically paying attention to three critical items. One is that 79 exxxt contributes to 50 to 60 affordable housing with the lowest AMI, that it supports the hay line moon relocation and that the contribution to the Josiah Quincy Elementary School for education resources stands. Thank you. May I have a second? I say don't get it. Thank you, Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mrs. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you and good luck. That's all. What do you want to hear? For this and that. Here with me, Madam Chair, at this point, since we're past the 1030 mark, we'd be good to ask for the pearls we're hearing that this one. Which are all there. So with that, the 1030 mark on the agenda, on there any one asking for with the pearls on the pearls, that's just fine. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Yes, put your name. Five. Yes. I've now see a street and 127 St. Andrews Road. Motion for the fall. Tom, does he need to read it into the record first? Yes. Already had to go to the end, Madam Chair. I couldn't hear it. I've now see the first one. And did you say St. 127 St. Andrews Road, their companion cases? OK. Got it. That's why it was the fall. That case would be BOA 1419403 at five minutes of the street. We have to stay quiet and throw the questions. Yes, we have to go back and meet with the Orient Heights in April, Cal State. Yes. And how long are you requesting the fall for? We are on the agenda in February, late at the spot. What must we do to go on? At this point, the fall could be granted for April, what? And I take a motion first. May I take a motion first, nor? Sorry. You should move the motion to the far. I make a motion to a private project until April 11. So any time for me. Thank you, may I have a second? Thank you. OK. Hey, Ms. Baraza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Napoli. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. OK. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much, every day. Any others? OK. You're not moving on. The next is this B-O-A-1-41968. An address of 1690 yellow street. Do you remember? Our proposed reactant. I really want to speak on the case. Yes, I'm the owner, I can speak. And on my architect, Eric Zagasin's also with me as well. Thank you. Can you put your name and address in the record and briefly walk us through the violations? Sure. In the record, do you mean in chat? No, just state your name and address. My name is Alexander Tsupkov. I'm the owner of 1690 Gale. I've owned it since 2017 or 1890, I don't remember. And the building basically burned down in late 2020. There was a fire. We never determined the cause. But basically looking at the cost to rebuild it, it didn't make sense to the gold as another free family, because it would be more expensive than just buying another free family. So I spoke to an architect and I'm proposing to change it to a four family. We're not making it. Now, despite the violations, we're not making the building any higher than it was because there was an attic area that was previously used on the fourth floor. And we're basically changing the shape of that and we're making it to a proposal and to make it an actual unit. We had our waters meeting on May 26th. There were two people who showed up. No one was against it. Butters, they had questions about the use, about parking, about greenery. And none of these were actually against it. There were more like, that they were trying to ask how it's done. I know. The mayor's office will walk us through that process. Any other comments on violations? We're not changing the envelope of the building. We do have a support letter of support from the waters meeting as well. And the agreement is also, or I guess the suggestion is also that we add some more greenery in the back, which we're planning to do anyway to make the new building work. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Is better browser, do you have any questions on the plans? Nope. John is adequate. No questions. Thank you. May I take public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mr. Connor Newman with the mayor's office and the board's services. This time the mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of the board. As you heard the applicant mentioned, we had a butters meeting on May 26th. They went on to the Talbot Harvard Triangle community group where they received support from that civic. The civic also had recommendations regarding some green escaping and landscaping, which you heard the applicant mention, a request that emergency evacuation plan be posted in the Holloway Abbey unit, as well as the building B fully sprinkles. There's lots of issues with fires in this portion of Boston, as well as some roof designs to ensure that there's no water runoff onto neighboring properties. We received one letter of support from that civic group, which I think the board has access to. With that, we defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Jessica, any other raise stands? Yeah. Yeah. I'm Brian Moore. I was off the street. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Iain Mill. We will be off the Councilor War-O, and the applicant received some support from the Talbot Harvard Triangle. The civic assessment and having no other opposition, the Councilor would like to go on record in support of 169 guests. Thank you. I have no additional raise stand to things. That may I have a motion? Madam Chair, would you like to give us more of a motion of approval with the PDA Design Review Paying Special Attention to the 4th floor, roof geometry size and volume of the 4th floor massing? Thank you. Do I have a second? Second. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu Maul. Yes. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Madam Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Next on the agenda is case BOA 1416006. At 66 Stanley Street is the applicant for any of the working. Yes. Is there any other small representing the applicant? Is it a companion case with 66 are Stanley Street? Yes, it is. Madam Chair. Yes. Should he read the other one into the record as well or? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. suppressed AG�로. Welcome to out of minimum number assembly. I'm a member of the board of Attorney Derek Small. I'm a business of just a 51-dopson road. I'm with me today is Mr. Doug Steffanoff, is the project architect. And I don't know Madam Ambassador if he's been elevated to panelists. Yeah, I'm all set. Yes, Derek. You good? So we're here today at ACK Relief at 66 Stanley Street to change the lead locker-per-seat for the family dwelling to a three-family dwell. Don't the zoning sub-district here is a 2F6000 in our lot sizes, 8,100 with your life's security. Violations associated with this project are one-off street parking. We are providing off street parking, tandem, and then a bit of use. As it is a 2F6000 zone, and we are proposing to change the occupancy to a family. And the last violation that they are required if they are, and this is only sub-district, zero point four. And we are proposing zero point seven. The first unit on the first goal consists of two beds, two baths, and is an approximate report to 100 square feet. Second unit is two beds, one of baths, at approximately 1,400 square feet. And the third unit is two bedrooms, one bath, at approximately 1100 square feet. With that Madam Chair, 66 R Stanley Street is a property in the rear of 6,000, a clan also owns. And we're changing the legal occupancy of that building from the one family to a two family. Again, the zoning sub-district here is a 2F6000. The violation there again, our off street parking, and we are providing off street parking. And the FAR again, which is zero point four, we are proposing zero point seven. In that property, this is self-to-bedroom one bath, at a 920 square feet, excuse me, 920 square feet. The second unit is two bed, one bath, at 1,000 square feet. We'll turn it over there in case the board happens to myself or for the underdog duck stuff. Thank you so much. Any questions from Mr. Debrazza on the plans? During the adequate, no questions. Thank you. Any other questions from members of board? Mr. DeMico? Yeah. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. I don't see any of the parking spaces reflected on the plan. I know this is a parking area, but I don't see any spaces that depict how the cars are going to be parked. So, Derek, is there any way you can talk to the architect, see if they can do that? Yeah, he's on. Yeah, he could do anything in the parking spaces. Yeah, on the site plan in front, there are two spaces shown between the front and back building and there's one parallel up against the side of the building where we're removing a set of existing stairs that are no longer necessary. Yeah, but it doesn't show the vehicles. That's the space for the parking spot, eight and a half by 20, which is a parking spot by zoning code size. Oh, maybe I'm not making myself clear. You have to show the actual vehicles, how they will be parked, and that's normal procedure. I see the spaces, I understand, but I want to see the vehicles shown on the plan as every other project does. Oh, I'm making that request. We can submit that to Jessica, by the way. That's fine. Thank you. Of course, thank you. Okay, was that, let me take public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor of South's Neighborhood Services, the time Mayor of South's like to defer to the judgment of this board. We've had some personnel changes. I don't have a lot of information on this proposal, but they did meet with the local civic group, the meeting house, Kale, the civic association, and receive their support from the public. Thank you. Thank you. Jessica, any other response? I have no raised hands. Thank you. With that, Mayor, I have a motion. Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve with the provision that plans to be submitted to the Transportation Department for the San Carreview. Thank you, Mayor. I'll second that. Ms. Bedavirasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wil. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I would like to do that. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, before the next case gets called, since Thomas here, can we make a note for Tom to let I.C. Know that survey plot plans should have the cars, as just Bob Domingo just mentioned, that it should not, we should not receive it unless I.C. has provided that information to the applicants. Tom, I can tell I.S.D. that, but it's up to them what documents they're going to be reviewing. I think they're lazy if they can put that up. Ask the applicant for that information. I think the applicant in the case just provide proper and precise spaces marked on their site plan. So I don't know what else they could provide, really. Okay. I was just trying to address Bob's request for that information. Okay. Thank you. Can we do the 1130 deferrals? Oh, did we? Oh, I thought we did. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead. Let's do a small bit. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll be hearing that 1130 new discussions. Are there any, are there any deferrals or withdrawal? 130 Marchal Street. Board one. That being case, V.O.A. 133 2095. What's the address of 130 Marchal Street? And the applicant can or any other. Anyone who worked with that? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Jim, the board attorney Jeff Drego with Drego in Tuscany with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, we actually submitted new plans, updated plans to ISD in a timely fashion. However, the plan's examiner did discover a new violation that was this last time. So that has to be re-advertised. So we are seeking if possible, the board would see fit a relatively quick deferral because we are where completed with the community process. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Point three. Point three. May I have a motion to defer? Make a motion to defer. May I have a second? Say consent. Ms. Betabraza? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Fervilezia? Yes. Ms. Wimwell? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Here are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Do we have a date for him? The date we have is April 25th, 11th. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Hearing none, Mr. Stembridge? Okay. Okay. Okay. Please. The next case is BOA 1408168. The address of seven road and long streets. It's the applicant for anyone working with them. Any attendance? Yes. Restatio. Yeah. Put your name and address in the record and walk through the violations. I believe this needs to be called to the record by a violation. He just called it into the record. Okay. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Elizabeth and Brian Angel who owned a lot of seven road and long streets. They also owned the directly-abiding three family dwelling at 498 Adams Street and they own and live in the abutting single family at five ansley streets. The proposal is to erect a new two family dwelling on the lot at seven road and long streets. The motivation behind this is to desire to allow a financial aging parents to move into one of the two units with the second unit providing a rental stream. The lot size is 2,850 square feet and the zoning sub-district is 1,500,000 under Article 65. The variance is there for required to be used since it's opposed to family dwelling in a one-up sub-district and another variance is required on the lot size as 5,000 square feet here is the required minimum size. There's an Austrian parking violation only to the fact that Article 65 requires two parking spaces for two dwelling units. Here there are two spaces but they're in tandem configuration. Table F of Article 65 provides that an Austrian parking space designed so that a vehicle cannot enter or exit the space without passing through another space. In other words, the tandem parking space constitutes 0.75 of a parking space meaning that we have 1.75 parking spaces here under zoning rather than the required to. In this district of 40 or wide lot is required for a single family dwelling but for any other use the requirement is 50 feet. The lot here is 38 feet wide. Variance is also required for a side yard setback violation. The required side yard setback can be for the dimensional table. A one-up for application of Section 65, 42.7, side yards of certain narrow lots. The required side yard setback is actually 8.5 feet of the right side of the lot. It remains 10 feet to the left side because the left side contains a driveway. What is proposed is the zoning compliant 10 foot left side yard setback into right side yard setback of 6 feet, 7.5 inches, which is 1 foot, 10 and a 1.5 inches shy of compliance. Finally, there's a cited rear yard setback insufficiency. And once again the violation is minor. A single family requires a rear yard setback of 20 feet for any other use including this post 2 family of 40 foot setback is required for the dimensional table. However, once again for application of Section 65, 42.11, rear yards of certain shallow lots. The required rear yard setback is actually 28 feet. The proposed rear yard setback is 23 feet, 2 inches, which is 4 feet, 10 inches, shy of compliance. This law is certainly smaller than others in the neighborhood, but at nearly 3,000 square feet it is. I would propose clearly a developer block and an appropriate size law for a small 2 family dwelling. Unit 1 would be a 1 bed room unit for approximately 650 square feet, and unit 2 with 2 bed room units for approximately 800 square feet. Finally, I would suggest that if this were a conforming single family use, it would have been all likely to be at least 3 bedrooms with the same density result as is being proposed for this 2 family. With that I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Mr. Mindsy. Any questions on the plans? Mr. Bedabraza. Madam Chair, no other plans for the act. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? With that, I will take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office conducted in a buttonage meeting on July 7th, and the applicant then went on to meet with the St. Marks Civic Association, which voted to oppose. I believe they also reached out to the Pope Hill's neighborhood association as well. We received five letters of support as well, which I believe the board should have access to. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGebrin, City Councilor Frank Baker's office, would like to go a recommend support. Thank you. Chair for the record. I have no waste hands. Thank you. May I have a motion? Excuse me. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. We're in your front. Councillor Aaron Burp is office. At this time, Councillor Murphy would also like to go on the record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, can you also read the BPD recommendation? Jeff Hampton, are you here? I am Madam Chair. Thank you. We recommended approval with the design review on this, with an effort to increase usable open space, and increase that one side dance. Thank you. Have a raise hand here. Can I call it? Yes, please. I'm carmine. You're looking to give to us someone for this proposal? No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm going to give to the problem 9 minutes. I mean, I think. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Would that be a motion? We have a motion. We've got a design review. May I have a second? Second. It's better for us. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Would that be a motion? We have a motion. We've got a design review. May I have a second? Second. It's better for us. It's better for us. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Steinbridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next on the agenda we have. Case B-O-A-1-4-1-5. Case B-A-8-4-6-2-64-1-3. Is the applicant or one on his team present? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Steinbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members. My name is George Moran, Sam and Attorney with the Business Adress 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Rainbow Adult Day Healthcare, and I'm joined today by Paul Rea and Vicky Vinicora of Rainbow. This is an application to change the legal occupancy of the first floor of the commercial building at 60 Hilltop Street in Dorchester to adult daycare. The relevant zoning sub-district is the Cedar Grove Waterfront Manufacturing Sub-District within Article 65. This proposed change of use requires a conditional use permit, which is the only zoning relief thing sought. Rainbow is an operator of fixed similar adult daycare centers in the Boston area, including one at 95 free-port street in Dorchester, and they are licensed by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. They offer social, recreational and nursing services to their clientele. There is approximately 10,000 square feet of floor area at this location, which would be broken up into a large activity in dining area with smaller groups, program for meditation, quiet reflection activities, dance, as well as two nurses offices, bathroom facilities, administrative offices, and utility support rooms. The site benefits from Easy Access to and from I-93, Route 3A, Gallup and Boulevard, in Granite Avenue. There is parking on-site as a log, which contains another commercial building, is approximately 31,000 square feet. The center would be open Mondays through Saturdays, with program hours running from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., and office hours running until 5 p.m. There would be an average of 120 people daily in the center with 20 staff members, including nurses. The average age of Rainbow's clientele is 75 years. In some, the site is an appropriate location for this use, as there is a pronounced need for the type of service in Boston and in Greater Boston. The proposed use will not adversely affect the neighborhood because of hazard to vehicles or pedestrians, nor will it be induced in this commercially-owned area. And Rainbow has a proven and unblumished track record of providing adequate and appropriate facilities for this type of use since 2005. That all follows, and I'll take any questions from the members may have. Okay, and so do they have access to the reservation, the deposit room, or the reservation room behind them? I just have a little space right there. Yeah, I'm not certain if there's direct access from the site, but the proximity is exactly that. Thank you. Any questions from the board? All right. With that, let me take public testimony. I, as Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. I don't have a lot of information on this proposal. We've had a bit of a turn-up work personnel, but I do know that the Cedar Grove Civic Association voted to support that we defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Any other testimony, Jessica? I hope I'm going to have no raised hands and things. Thank you. I may have a motion. I may have a motion. You approve. May I have a second? Nice to meet you. Ms. Berbasa? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair, also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next is case B.O.A. 144307. At 19221 Standard Street. It's the applicant or anyone under a team presence. Thank you. We can. 19222 Standard. Do we have anyone, Jessica? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. Can you put your name and address into the record and walk us through the violations? Yes, Madam Chair. My name is Kyle Smith of Statero Law. This is address of 359 Newbury Street in Boston's back Bay. I do also have the owner on the call as well. He's a panelist too for answering questions. Thank you. You want to run through the violations? Yes. You can quickly walk us through the project and the violations. That would be great. Thank you. Yes, Madam Chair. So in brief summary, we are looking to expand the livable square footage of a three family that would include the addition of a dormer on the left side of the building as you're viewing the property to add additional square footage to the attic level approximately 300 square feet to allow for the inclusion of two additional bedrooms that would increase the current existing one bed, one bath to a three bed to bath or approximately 1200 square feet. There is a reconfiguring of an existing livable unit on the second floor of the building, the reconfiguring of an existing unit on the first floor of the building and the proposal to expand livable square footage into the basement level of the building, which would be contiguous to a second level for the unit on the first floor. If approved, that would bring the first unit split level basement first floor unit to a five bed slash office three bath of approximately 2,900 square feet, a second unit on the second floor of approximately 1400 square feet of a three bed and two bath and then a third unit on the attic level of a three bed and two bath of approximately 12 square feet. The sole external changes to the building would be the proposed dormers on the roof line of the building and then also the inclusion of decks to the rear of the structure. Sorry, there seems to be some technical difficulties. No problem. I know we've had a point. So the heights staying the same and you're working within that footprint? Yes, Madam Chair, the building is existing basement to be dug out a little bit for the expansion of height to bring that into building code, where the only external changes to the building are the rear deck and the proposed dormer to the left roof line. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you please let me know what the height is of the basement unit? What's the height from floor to ceiling? Leave I if you can apply and that'd be great. I'll pull up the plans there with me for a moment if you don't mind. I found it is 90 inches. No, no, no further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'm sorry. Madam Chair, it might be relevant for you as well, but the basement level has proposed one internal means of the egress to full doorways to the rear of the structure, full emergency egress, the bedroom to the front right with the kind of round area that windows approximately 32 inches wide by 40 inches tall. It's accessible to ground level. There's good elevation exposure to the building there. And then there's the proposed addition of three full window egresses for additional bedrooms. So there's otherwise a good full door access out of the basement living area. Is there is the owner also occupying the any of the units or the building is currently gutted? The owner and owner kind of took over from a prior owner who ran into some financial problems. So we're kind of working with that existing current state of construction. The owner intends to occupy what will be level one, which would be the first floor and basement level dwelling. So he tends to occupy a post conclusion of construction. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? With that, let me take public testimony, please. I, yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. As in back information, our office hosted in a butters meeting on November 21st of 2022. The applicant went on to meet with the River Street Civic Association, which I believe has voted to oppose this project. They've submitted a letter. We've also received one letter of support as well. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Any other testimony, Jessica? Not Brian Morales, obviously. Good evening, Madam Chair. Remember the board, my name is I.M.I.M.I. and I'm the Office of Councilor Morales. And the council invites the applicant to defer in order to have more community engagement on this proposal. Thank you, Chris. Yes, I'm the next door neighbor to Levi. I'm at 17. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just heard the record. The Christopher Fumara 17 Stanley Street. Madam, right next door neighbor to Levi. And I'm in. Are you in support opposition? I'm in support. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, can you read your recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm in support. We recommended a group of design review on this. Really just to look at the door mirror edition. Thank you. All right, Gary. And then, Mark? The more in my name is Gary Lynch. I live directly across the street from my ex-e. And I approve this project. I don't know if they go forward with it. I've been here for this 1976. And I would like to see them go forward with this project. Thank you. Mr. Lynch. Nothing in Mark. Hello. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Mark Patelow, 25 Stanley Street. I am direct neighbor to the Bose project. I'm regarding a butter's meeting. I never received any letter. I never received any notice of a butter's meeting. I am active with the River Street Civic Association. I never saw anything from them either. And I just want to point out that the proposed work on this dormer and the expansion of the basement has already been completed. The dormer already exists. They built that without permits. I would just like to see, you know, the dormer actually cuts into the daylight that my side yard gets, which I didn't submit a letter that I think you guys have on file. I submitted it yesterday or the day before. Just kind of outlining that. But yeah, there was no, I was not even aware of butter's meeting. I did get the notice for this meeting, but I never got into butter's meeting notice. I don't know who was all on that. Thank you. We have no additional waste. Madam Chair, can I ask a councilor's office why they were recommending a deferral? Yes. This is the councilor's office? Yes, I'm here. The reason why we were requesting a deferral was due to a lack of community engagement. I think we haven't received any sort of, I guess, notice about them engaging with the civic beforehand of the meeting. Thank you. Okay. For that, we have motion. I would like to before emotion of deferral to allow for additional community process. We have a second. Hearing none. Is there an alternate motion? I'm sure can I ask the proponent if they can clarify the situation with the dormant and the renovation. So the basement, if those renovations were already completed or not as they apologize mentioned. Yes, of course. So, Madam Chair, I can speak briefly as to this as well. I've been advised by the owner, my involvement as council has been brought in relatively late. The basement, if not approved, would be used for storage and other mechanical so that work has been done as far as the deepening or increasing of the height, but not the conversion to livable square footage. The dormer, as I understand it, the proponent submitted an update to the original plans from the prior owner in the first quarter of 2022. And after I think three or so months of delay from ISD, if not having received response, I do believe it's my understanding they proceeded with building the dormer at risk, pending the approval of the sport. That is, I think the response here to direct questions and the owner can add in as they have additional commentary. Address your question, Mr. Valencia. Yes, thank you. Any other questions? Okay, do we have a motion? I will second the first motion knowing now most of the stuff pre-exist. Okay, so you're seconding the deferral. Okay, Ms. Bedapurasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Dwayne-Will. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure, also votes yes. Motion carries. Do we have a... Sorry, go ahead. No, no, I would just recommend that the applicant really engages with ONS to facilitate the community process. Yes, thank you. Mr. Stembridge, do you have a new date? I think they need to go back and... That date? Any time for the community process. Yes, Valencia. That date with the April 25th at 11. Will that provide the applicant enough time? Yes, Valencia. Just to speak briefly to this as well. There have been numerous attempts to engage, I believe, with the Repertrix Association. So this is on everyone's radar. I think we're on their agenda for February. So yes, that should be adequate time. Great. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge, next case. Go on to 1030 hearings. Next case, B-O-A-141-1304 at 12109 Benington Street. The applicant or any of the team members present? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Again, members of the board, Richard Lins, with the business address of 245 Sumner Street is Boston. On behalf of the positioner. Madam Chair, just a very brief background for this project. We were before the board last year with respect to this address, where the project was larger, more dense, more units, and certainly a larger footprint of the building. With the EPA recommending denial, the board of appeal at that time denied this case without prejudice. Since then, we have an opportunity to go back and rework this project to what's before the board today. In addition, since the last time this project was before the board, the planning-sposted recommendations from the B-E-D-A for the New Zone have advanced a little bit further, including this area, which is slated to be what we. The design is at our four neighborhood residential, with up to four stories, seems to be the direction that Plenty's Boston is looking at. With that said, and even though Plenty's Boston does allow, or at least would suggest to allow for higher heights in this area, our project that's proposed before the board today is to reduce down to three-story building, with a total of five units. I would point out that the location of this site is located directly across from the Suffolk Downs and the T.A. Station, so less than 100 yards of the entrance. But let me walk through briefly once the screen comes up, what we're looking at by way of program. So the proposed project, with demolish the existing two-unit dwelling, we would create a new multi-family dwelling with a total of five residential units. With respect to the zoning, this does meet the minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. It meets the minimum weight of 50 feet, and our proposed height would be below the 35 feet that is permissible in the district. The district actually allows 35 or 30 feet. With respect to the relief that we require, and I think we can jump forward if you just want to maybe scan ahead of it to the rendering, which would be. So with respect to the relief that is necessary, the side yard condition on the left side of the building is currently non-conforming. That sits at about three and a half feet presently. We will maintain that side yard of the new building, which does allow for windows and openings on that side. With respect to the right side, the requirement of the district is 10 feet. So we do maintain a driveway on the right side of our building, and that driveway would allow for the required 10 foot setback on the right side of the building as well. With respect to our rear yard, we're slightly below 30 feet as the requirement in the district. We're slightly below just a little over 29 feet, based upon how we're orienting some of the rear decks. So the building itself sits outside of the 30 feet, but we are slightly within the setback and the rear. With respect to, as I mentioned, the high of this building is below the 35 feet. However, there is requirement in the two F districts that two F stories is the maximum height. So we would be proposing this as a three story building. However, this would be a little bit more squat than the typical three story buildings that are in the neighborhood, because this would be designed to be adaptable for persons with disabilities at a lower level. This does incorporate a very small basement for storage and utilities, and I apologize. I know that the board is not seeing the presentation. I know the interest of time you may want to hear the presentation itself. So I can pause Madam Chair. We want to wait for the screen to come up. Yes, sorry. Sorry. I'm trying to stay on the script here, but I noticed the spinning wheel of death. And then me time any any questions on the plans, Mr. Raza? Sorry. Luckily, I do have access to the plan, so, but the public doesn't. Everything looks fine. The only question I have is the project is, you know, next to the Morant Heights, the MBTA. Is that correct? Yes, I see across some stuff. I just kind of see that you used up a lot of the open space for parking. You have five parking space. Would the applicant be open to reducing the parking? Yes, I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. Through the chair, Mr. Bener-Raza, I think part of the conversation that we did have since our last hearing to the current hearing are some of the changes that we did make based upon community response. And as you can see from the plans, there are a couple of things I will highlight first is we do incorporate two, three bedroom units and three, two bedroom minutes. Because the sentiment is this neighborhood should be building for family size units. So one of the questions or at least on the concerns were, although my office, it was located in this neighborhood for many years. The claim that the off the on street parking is limited with some some of a concern. That's why we maintain the one space pre unit. But I don't disagree that the proximity to Suffolk Down Station makes this a very good transit oriented site. I guess I'm happy to look at that for designer view if that's what the board's preferences. Thank you for the questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is there it looks like the slides are working. I don't know if there's something you want to step away walk us through or you find those me go. If we can get a slide. That does show the rendering and context. I think that will be what's just sort of a good view of how. The time it looks like Mr. Domingo has a question on I'm parking Mr. Domingo. Yes, Madam. Care members of the board of the me go B. T. D. I'm going to go to the proximity of the at the North and North United and do the proximity of this project to Suffolk Down Station and orientate station. So there's two stations in close proximity. I'd like to suggest a decrease in the number of parking spaces only because of proximity to. I can work with the opponent in the come up with the compromise in the number of parking spaces because of the transit or we have the development. Thank you. Thank you. May I hear a problem with testimony since we're still having technical issues. Sorry Mr. Williams. I'm sorry. I'll go ahead and sorry council elected officials. Thank you. Just good afternoon. My name is chair members of the board and I have an interest with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. ONS hosted two letters meetings for this project won August 24th and October 20th October 20th of 2022. This project began the community process once again with three stories instead of four five units instead of six and a roof deck. The letters meeting a lot of opposition was voiced regarding the roof deck so the applicant removed the roof deck from the proposal. Few letters mentioned they would like to see those as a two family homestead and opposition from two of the rear butters. They also expressed that the project was out of character with the rest of the houses and was too dense for this site. Also, they mentioned about parking as well. At this time, our office will lead to the first judgment to the vote. Thank you. ONS, can you clarify what the parking comments were? Yes, they think that they expressed that there's not enough parking in the area. Like Richard Lynn said, they asked for more parking. They actually believed that the one one was not enough. They would like to see even more. I just want to focus to hear that because I just added it up. You know what what Mr. Lynn said that is a total of 12 bedrooms and so while I doubt there would be 12 cars. If we are talking about families with children. One vehicle per household does not sound unusual for me. Any other public testimony? Yes, we have a few very things. We'll start with Bob and then go over to the people in the attendee section. Bob, will you look at the testimony here? Yes, Bob already spoke. Say I already spoke. Thank you. Is there a car mine? Yes, he's on pause at launch. Yes. I understand that the ownership. Thank you. Thank you. Laurence Zola, 18, Suya Avenue and we also have the property of 12.05, Ben Aiton, directly aside. So the ownership of the property changed at the very end of the year. We thought we were dealing with some. Are you speaking in support or opposition to so we. Thank you. I guess opposition since there have been some quick changes at the end of the year. We feel a little blindsided here. The neighbors who were with us. Was a soul. They were the ones developing this along with the Cresco organization. Now at the end of the year, the property was bought up by. I told them that they had a meeting with the. Now chair, I can clarify that that's my client. Yes, they did close on the property. It was under agreement during the time we've gone through the process, but they. Acquired the property before the end of the calendar here. So they were involved in the property. So the group is the beneficial holder of the LLC that. That's been that's been who's presented the project all along. Even with the first iteration was project as well. So there's a big change. Okay, thank you. Any other public testimony, Jessica? If I do see Gail Miller looking to get testimony here. Can you say to name an address for the. I'm not sure that Mr. Zola had finished his comments though. So I'm going to yield to him first. That's the case. But I just want to make a comment. Mr. Lin's sites, the planning is Boston projected. Hope for the zoning changes. That's under great contention here at. I'm not sure if you're going to have a meeting with the. So I don't like to talk about. Acceptance of the planning is Boston when it's still under great review. And as a matter of fact, we're going to have. Chief of planning, Mr. Jemison. But the community. So, you know, I think that should be noted. Thank you. Madam chair, I'm fine with that. I believe the BPD has a recommendation on this, which is different than our original. Yes. Yes. Understand. Anyone else just got to speak in supporter opposition? No, I have no additional. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Hampton, do you want to have a recommendation? Thank you, Madam chair, members of the board. As a nice lead in from Councillor Clinton's. We do have a different recommendation on this case. It's approval with provisional for design review. With an effort to increase the usable open space. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have room of motion? I'm trying to make the motion to improve the provisional for design review for an effort to reduce paved surface and increase the open space. Thank you, Madam. Second. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Williams. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Wewill. Mr. Wewill. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you very much. Have a great day. Madam Chair, this is Tom. Yes. I was speaking with IT support here in 1010 and they were hoping we could do about 10 or 15 in a recess to let them work on the computer. Thank you for the slides you're being presented from. Hopefully that can resolve those issues. All righty, second break of the day. We'll use it wisely for 10 minutes. 12 25. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you two baths. As far as open grain space goes we're going to have about 800 square feet in the rear yard that will just be for the first unit. Unit two will have 180 square foot deck and unit three will also have 180 square foot deck as well as a private roof deck which will be accessed by a bubble hatch. We're here in front of you today because we are looking for relief on a few different variances on a sub neighborhood design overlay districts. The other one is the roof structure restrictions from rooftop deck. The other one is additional lot area insufficient so the lot size is 2,813 square feet in order to add the third unit the required additional lot size is 1,000 feet so we would have needed 3,000 square feet a lot size so we're about 180 square feet short and then the final variance is on site parking for the additional unit. We do actually have a use of premises permit for 90 in street which is a few houses down which is another development that we also did and in that development has five parking spaces one of which will be applied to 15 in street for the additional unit. Thank you. Any questions on the plans or the proposal? I can't see faces but hearing none I'm going to take public testimony and we can circle back. Mr. Brunner you can speak. Sorry about that all I know some audio problems. Madam Chairman, members of the board, this is Sean Green with the mayor's office neighborhood services and a butters meeting was held to 15 in the street. There were some concerns from the butter regarding safety and privacy over the roof deck. The letter was submitted to the ZBO the mayor's office neighborhood services will defer judgment to the lawyer at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, James. Can you say a name and address for the record please? Hello, I'm Audubul. My name is James Byron Morrison. I'm a resident at 11 Eden Street which is one of the Attat 4 attached row houses 9 11 13 and 15. I'm also here on behalf of Robert Morrison, my father who has been the homeowner here at 11 Eden for over 30 years. I'm glad to hear it's sounds like you received our letter of objection but I want to reiterate what it says. We object to the existence of any roof decks on attached row houses not just because of noise and privacy but especially because of trespass having the roof deck would allow for access not just to the roof of 15 Eden but to the roofs of 13 11 and 9 as well. We objected to the roof deck two years ago in front of you at 9 Eden and we want to reiterate our opposition to any roof decks on attached row houses because they would allow for unauthorized access not just to our roof but to the other roofs in the set of row houses and we're hoping you can take a fresh look and not repeat an unoriented approval of such a roof deck. Mr. Morrison just to confirm your objection is solely or primarily the roof deck not not the property used from 2 to 3 families. No we are only objecting to the roof deck. Thank you. Our only objection. Thank you. Just any other raised hands? Yes. I'm sorry. Go ahead and have you say to me and add this for the record please? Sure. My name is Juliet Steinkross and I live at 9 Eden Street Unit 2. I'm a neighbor and I support this request. Thank you. I feel that we're going to have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, do you have a recommendation? Yes. Thank you Madam Chair members of the board. We've recommended a approval with design review. We actually have a concern about the roof deck the size of the location so we're hoping to take that. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Any questions I would have is how does the applicant respond to the concern of the neighbor in terms of access of other interesting roofs? I would just respond by saying that we will have 42-inch handrails around the whole deck which would make it difficult for anybody to climb over those handrails and access any other roofs. I can't imagine why anybody would want to do that but you know that's that's our response. Okay thank you. Was that may I have a motion? Madam Trowell League of motion to approve with the proviso with design review with attention and the size and placement of the roof deck. Do I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Becobraza. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Relozia. Yes. Ms. Weewal. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Next case is BOA 135 04 83 with the address of 30 354 through 356 handover street is the applicant or any of the team members present. Yes good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen Madam Chair comes to the board. My name is Paul Rufo of an attorney in Boston with the law firm of Smith Duggan Cornell in Gala 88 Broad Street 6th floor in Boston. I represent the applicant which is DR 2 LC and I believe with me on the call is the owner Gina Daganji and briefly this application is to basically confirm occupancy that seems to have gotten lost over the years this building goes back to 1876 and it was built as a four unit building and it's presently occupied as a four unit building along the way in 1986. There was a record in the NISD which is a little unclear as to why but the occupancy was reduced to three units with a store on the first floor and two residential units above was initially constructed as a store on the first floor and three residential units above and then as I say in 1986 that was changed and then when Mr. Gange acquired the property recently and researched the records notice that the occupancy wasn't matching with what the ISD records were so asked us to look into it and so we did you have plans which I'm told you can share we just have a floor plan showing how each floor is used and elevations showing it as well so to confirm the occupancy or to change the occupancy from three units to four units actually tripped two zoning code violations days I don't thank you very much that's the floor plan it's a small lot number three there's 746 square feet it's on the corner of Hanover and Tiles and Street as you see and then if you flip up you can see the thank you you can see the floor each floor is planned they're all one bedroom units except the store front has always been a store front and then a lower level is just from mechanical equipment etc then the elevations to show that the building hasn't been changed etc and that's the way it looks my best guess not to not to drive this up but is that probably in that time frame maybe the the third and fourth floors were combined into one unit it's hard to say the ISD records don't show but anyway it's it's presently occupied and if there's no work anticipated it's presently occupied as three separate residential units and the store front units so we as I said started to say when we filed an application to confirm the occupancy that tripped two zoning code violations one is open space 50 feet required 50 square feet I'm sorry it's required for the new that the quote-unquote new unit and one parking space would be required for the new unit per code of course when these buildings were built there's no open space and there's no parking space so we we did have a abouters meeting on July 26th 2022 C.R. Demiko from ONS chaired that for us at my sure if season on the on the call there was no opposition and with support we then also appeared before the north end waterfront neighborhood council in in October 17th 2022 and they were kind enough to unanimously support our petition to confirm the occupancy and then also appear before the north end waterfront residents association in on November 22nd 2022 their zoning licensing and construction committee which recommended to their executive committee no objection to the appeal so I believe that we have completed the community process and would would ask that you approve our application to confirm the occupancy as four units one store front with three residential units above thank you very much thank you very much any questions from the board okay may I have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board honoring moving the mayor's office neighborhood services the sound of mayor's office was like to defer to the judgment this board as you heard from the applicant representation and a butters meeting was held where no concerns were raised the applicant then went on to meet with new row where they received a letter of dawn opposition with this we defer to the board at this time thank you thank you I'm going to have no additional raise hands thank you uh Jeff do you have an recommendation we do madam chair thank you um the recommendation has a provide zone for design review and no building code relief but listening to mr. Rufo and looking at the plans of itself looks like that's it could go with just straight up move no sense uh making them go through or something that's just clarifying the record thank you uh with that may I have a motion motion may I have a second second miss better brazo yes mr. shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes miss we will yes mr. stembridge yes mr. Collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries thank you thank you very much the next case is BOA 1 4 2 1 8 3 1 at 16 through 16 a from on street applicant Jeff is that from Jeff farrow or team members present yes good afternoon madam chair members the board my name is Adam Barnosky for the writer in my address is two to five states street Boston and I'm here on behalf of neighborhood guy LLC the applicant and with me today is Spencer Payne the owner and manager of the LLC you can just walk us quickly through the the change and the violations yes thank you so we're here on a change of use the property at 619 trim on street which is located on a garden level of a four-story mix use roadhouse building located in the south that neighborhood district and the MFR LS self-district the premises is operated for a long time as a retailer most recently being utilized as a local retail business selling flowers and other gardening materials the applicant seeks relief from section 64-8 to permit a wine shop which despite the mix use care of the neighborhood and its large retail presence does require relief in the MFR LS self-district specifically this is going to be a neighborhood oriented specialty wine shop selling a select category of wines a small array of craft beer it's a close hours of operation our 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. a seven days a week it's a port of the application this is a minority owned small business the proposed use is in line with other retail uses in the area consistent with the nature of uses on trim on street in the south end which is mix use blocks with residences above an array of boutiques restaurants and retailers below we want to note that this is not a liquor store this is not a convenience store there's going to be no nips there'll be no single serve beverages no hard alcohol no battery this will be an off-scale retailer that's going to be consistent with the quality and character of the neighborhood the request of relief will not be insurious the neighborhood the hours of operation are neither early in the morning neither later night and it'll function to very similarly to other retailers in the neighborhood it's going to serve the immediate community we don't anticipate that this is going to create parking or traffic issues as most customers do by the approach retailers in this area on the boat we did provide a memo and support to be on a record board the applicant conducted in conjunction with their licensing application before the boss licensing board they appeared before the Alice neighborhood association had a productive meeting there that group provided a letter of non-opposition which should be on file at the board in conjunction with ONS they also had a an abundance meeting on site there were no objections voiced at that time my office has received no concern to opposition to date on this request and I have the two form the board the licensing board approved late last week a one-and-one beverage license for this location and the applicant which is subject to the zoning relief request by the board today we are happy to answer any questions that you may have thank you what's the square footage of the space x29 quarter 629s for me 699 thank you thank you any other questions or concerns from the board this is for guardian level correct yes correct and for the bathroom I would imagine that it's kind of a common shared outside of the rear door I'm sorry it's common shared in in terms of the bathroom facilities where where's the bathroom yeah you know expensive paint is the applicant is on the on the call today if we could promote it more or he did say that that's correct all right I just wanted to confirmation because I don't see a bathroom in here so I just imagined that it was a shared facility okay no further questions thank you thank you any other questions from the board may I have public testimony please hi good morning excuse me good afternoon I'm Adam chair members of the board can appreciate it from the Council of Neighborhood Services office held in a butters meeting in December of 2022 where two of the support was shown by butters they met with the Alice neighbors and received a letter of non-opposition from them as well at this time we would like to defer to the board thank you good afternoon man I want to share members of the board and I can also council press rightfully office the councilman would like to come recording support based on few classes from neighbors and Jailies Legal Association who indicated non-opposition thank you thank you councilor Murphy's office good afternoon madam chair and members of the board uh Tommy and of councilor Murphy's office councilor Murphy would also like to go on record and support of this project seeing that there's no opposition by the local civic and the butters thank you thank you for the record I have no ways just set a race and uh no she put a demo okay but I'm just make sure she's there you look at a gift testimony here Elizabeth I see that chair in opposition and I should if you wanted to add anything else I would can you hear me yes yes is it getting on just for the record please this is Elizabeth Willett I live at 617 Tremont Street directly next door and we've lived here for 20 years we're raising a family here we know the neighborhood very well I wanted to I like the fact that there is in fact a large liquor store at 607 Tremont Street it's 10 houses away I think we're well served for you're already I understand this is not a liquor store I understand it's different I'm unclear as to whether providing a variance for liquor serve um sales at this point would lead to eventual potential changes while this particular vendor is interested in this boutique wine store would this be able to change once um you know with that future uses and I do also think that the later hours compared to there are only two other shops in the center of the block and I think the end day close earlier um I think it will change the foot traffic and the pattern on a block which is mainly residential so it's in my position thank you I'm for the record I'm no additional raise hands thank you with that may I have a motion yes ma'am sure I make a motion to approve this request second miss better parasa yes mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes miss we route yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries good thank you next case is BOA 140 6089 at 125 through 131 park drive that's I'm being Cameron Merrill is but he or any of his team members president yes thank you Cameron Merrill is present along with Daniel Steer as he architect on this project thank you members of the board my business addresses 100 state street Boston Massachusetts I have the privilege of representing the applicant in this case the zoning violations are for lack of on street parking and lack of on excuse me lack of off street parking and lack of open space the nature of this request is to convert a one bedroom slash office into a one bedroom apartment the occupancy register with the city of Boston was in office so this is returning it to its original condition which was a one bedroom apartment as it's known in the condominium documents this project has received substantial support from the neighborhood I think you have approximately 17 letters of support in your file as well as support from the condominium association while there are safety life safety improvements being made to the unit in general modernization this is already legal occupable space so this is not creating any new space we believe that this is a dramatic improvement to the conditions of the neighborhood as what was operated as a full-time six staff with six roaming staff business is now going to be residential space so while point you know eight or so new parking spaces is required in effect this is taking 14 parking spaces or used parking spaces making them re-evalve for the neighborhood the project while it is garden level there is slope to the rear so the rear of this unit has full full ceiling height full windows so it is not a typical you know basement or garden level unit that being said with the open space violation this is directly across the street from a large park obviously and open space is plentiful in this neighborhood therefore it's our position that this is a project which is worthy of an appeal in your consideration happy to answer any questions you might have but all in all this is a net benefit with tremendous support from the community thank you mr. Merrill just to confirm these are the violations you mentioned are are they they're pre-existing violations correct yes exactly this was a non-conforming office which is going to effectively become a conforming hopefully once we get the relief residential space there are two other units in the basement already thank you any questions from the board you know what that may have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board caught our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services this time the mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board some background information on the community process our office hosts and the butters meeting on November 3rd 2022 no concerns were raised at the time the Fenway Civic Association reviewed the proposal and had no objections they did mention they prefer the original fenestration not be infilled in a way that would detract from the aesthetics of the building we received one letter of support from a resident of the building and we did have one community sink older reach out expressing some concerns that there can be flooding in that area at some points in some basements so with that we deferred to the judgment of this board thank you thank you Mr. Newman and my chair members are going to have no raised hands thank you with that may I have a motion motion to approve yeah the second second miss better brazo yes mr. shopper yes mr. Valencia yes as we will yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries thank you next case is b o a one three four zero zero two eight with an address of seven sixty east Broadway applicant yes can walk a little for team members present yes i could have the new madam chair members of the board my name is mr. barangay i'm going to train with the business address of 350 west Broadway and teleclosment i represent mark little madam chair members i will be brief this is exactly as it appears it is an application or a 12 foot by 12 foot root deck in the rear of it exclusive to unit two at seven sixty east Broadway and cell Boston my client went through a fairly extensive community office made a number of changes to the post deck arrived at a point where as i believe the board will hear a testimony there is now essentially a support and unopposition to the roof deck during that community process a the the neighborhood the of butters and city point neighborhood association all requested that my client commit to support and adhere to a provider which it would of course through within the discretion of the board to propose but my client has agreed that he would that he would accept and conform with the provider that the approved deck so it'll be no larger than 12 feet by 12 feet may not be enlarged beyond that size in the future and would agree that that provides though would run with the property and perpetuity but that i'll pause and take any questions that members may have thank you thank you answer one of my questions because you've been before the board with the same similar proposal which i believe either was opposed or deferred are there other questions from the board no sure okay may i have public testimony please yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayors office neighborhood services at this time in mayors office like to defer to the judgment this board i have some background information the community process on as opposed to two butters meetings july 14th and november first originally residents were critical the proposed deck being 18 feet after multiple meetings with the cp the city point neighborhood association there came up that there would be a proviso which the applicant's representation mentions that the approved deck shall be no larger than 12 by 12 and may not be enlarged beyond that size in the future his proviso shall run with property and perpetuity without proviso the cp a voted to support this project with those restrictions without the deferred to the judgment the board thank you and good afternoon madam chair members of the board Anna Candero from council president flings office the councilor would like to go on recording opposition to the roof deck due to the significant quality of live issues neighbors in south wascom have expressed for years regarding loud parties are all hours and trash removal associated with similar proposals neighbors across south wascom have communicated to their elected officials for years regarding their quality of life being disturbed due to loud parties are all hours of the night with weird kinds and picks up boxes of tenders bow and blowing off of the decks into the sidewalks and into the streets unfortunately this behavior was exacerbated during the pandemic and council president flings continues to hear these complaints from south in neighbors from our seniors persons with disabilities young families with school age children as civic group meetings and from neighborhood organizations for these three sons and more council president flings continues to oppose similar proof that proposals in the residential neighborhood thank you for i lean and then luan i link you say to name an actress for the record please hi good afternoon hi lean smith 7 7 6 east Broadway and about to 7 6 8 east Broadway i just really have some concerns regarding the perpetuity clause and i don't know um this property is currently in the process of being sold this deck extension uh exceeded any type of normal guidelines and i'm wondering who enforces the perpetuity restriction that the owner is agreeing to and if this would have transferred to different ownership will the new person have the ability to come before you again with the same request for an extended deck thank you again i think let's keep going with the testimony and you can respond to that afterwards applicant who win making new army yes you can okay luan o'connor president city point neighborhood association attorney maranxi is correct as well as ons this was an extensive neighborhood process they did present before city point after several butters meetings to get the plans correct and stamped by i st before cpna could review them or would review them so with that being said uh we did compromise on the deck 12 by 12 with the provisor that the deck would not be extended and that is to run with the property i'm yet with the property not the owner so with that being said cpna voted to support this particular um rifted project thank you just go can you have the raised hands just go any of the raised hands all right mr. hampton did you have a recommendation i actually know madame here we didn't we didn't have plans for this uh this appeal okay thank you all right any other questions from the board okay with that i'm going to entertain a motion is anyone offering a motion on this i'd like to before a motion of approval with the pda design review and i have the second second is better pausa yes mr. shepherd yes mr. valencia yes as we will yes yes mr. stemberidge yes mr. collins yes the chair also votes yes motion carries thank you madam chair uh carry dorshan rantat just be remiss because i noticed some comments and chat i didn't know uh miss bed of ariza and i'd be intent to omit the uh the provisor that was a request about the community just wanted to get that on the record uh so um basically the drawings does show a 12 by 12 so that is what the permit is for and that's what the zoning variance is is improving but if you'd like for me to be clear to provide a proviso i can only suggest that the bpda provides a proviso to examine the size of the deck um but in regards to what future owners can do to the property that's an internal uh legal matter with the property and tom you can correct me wrong but um that's what i can recommend yes mr. oly you want to give clarification for the record yes mr. oly so this is uh this is uh the permit application so you know i see only an issue of permit to build followed by a 12 per deck anything in violation of that was an open some kind of building a violation for my sd on that on those grounds it's almost one of the change change the dimensions of the roof deck they would have to you know five brand new permit come back for the board to alter that in some way so that on anything it should have to get signed off on the board it's going to be different than the future but it's on a case by case basis so yeah i just want to make that clear to everyone i'm just gonna thank you okay next case thank you next case is boa 139 1029 the address of 10 1008 through 1010 from on street application step step in all architects but they or any of the team members present uh yes sir uh dog step in all where the visit step in all of architects to the business address before 23 west driveway south austin madem chair members of the board uh thank you for hearing us today i come before you on behalf of the owners of pharmacy health pharmacy uh maretta and jones uh oh oh kill who operate a pharmacy down term on street and like to move to new location at one thousand twelve technically uh same building term on street this is a new mixed use building nine residential units and two commercial spaces on the ground floor this is the last empty unfinished commercial space um we had done community review which was successful we have uh root stallions and have the support of the local root united neighbors of low rock study and if i well it is an outlaw thing excuse me and please continue sorry yes and i'd like to either read and record or note the record we have our letter of support from our city councilor tania Fernandez and thank you i uh the public officials will we'll go through the public process and thank you uh interim director uh this is just a conditional use of the space that we ask your uh relief for this business thank you and it looks like it's it's internal internal work only that's correct that's correct yes thank you any other questions from the board okay hearing none i will try to move move on to public testimony yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board kisha santa from the mayor's office of any member services um in a butters meeting was held where um there weren't really concerns raised just clarifying questions um and they met with the local civics um there has been expressed with me for a pharmacy in the area um and at this point we would like to defer judgment to the board thank you any other reeds hands okay uh did you have a recommendation mr. hanpton uh thanks madam chair yes we did uh we recommended approval uh and if there are any exterior changes that we have designed to be one it sounds like mr. steppin often that there are not it's just an internal changes that correct no external changes that present okay then we just recommend approval then perfect thank you and and to echo uh kisha definitely in need of pharmacies in the city so with that may have a motion make a motion your approve second okay miss bai bhaza yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes miss we will yes it's the stamperage yes mr. columns yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you all very much next case b is o a 141 948 0 okay the 18 Fabian Street applicant Robert Ego Ego Dog Bear see presents for any of the steam members yes madam chair 20 Derek small representing the owner next like can you walk us through the project and sure sure good afternoon madam chair members of the board attorney Derek small have a business dress up if you want doubts and roll today we're seeking relief to erect a free family dwelling on a vacant lot the lonely sub district here is a free F 5000 our lot size is 5,885 square feet there's only one violation madam chair and that's additional lot area additional lot area is 300 and we have 160 the units will consist of three beds two beds and our apartment you can 200 square feet and these style units and that's the presentation we meet the zoning code with we got every other ask thank you any questions from the board all right uh with that man public testimony councilor world's office good evening madam chair members of the board my name's i am no lila from council world's office and the council would like the applicant to defer from what community engagement regarding this proposal just got any other raise thanks did we lose Jessica hey mister captain do you have a resolution goody i yes madam chairman will we are recommend approval with design review thank you madam chair i just have a question to again council world why they can expand why a motion deferred is recommended so um just based on uh uh the part that we didn't we didn't hear from the civics we tried reaching out to them in regards whether or not they uh supported the proposal um we now we didn't hear back from uh uh the civic committee to vote with me well i think i think Eric james from oh and s so perhaps he can add to that in terms of community process and also and Derek small can also talk yes after i i i i i sure i sure will mentor you if allowed but let Eric go ahead and speak for us yes what's Eric speaker thank you oh all right good evening madam chair members of the board my apologies for the technical difficulties earlier i was experiencing issues with the zoom but i should be good now um Eric james the mayor's office of neighborhood services the applicant for eighteen bobby odd uh had no buttons meeting on september 22nd 2022 they met with the greater matter pay neighborhood council there is a bit of confusion on that the applicant state debate did meet on um in November of 2022 however the greater matter pay neighborhood council has scheduled them for a project um proposal off that way 16 so that is a bit um hazy as of now but they are scheduled to be with the greater matter in neighborhood council for February 16th too um i guess present um and actually have official feedback so we do not have official feedback from that neighborhood council as of now um it sort of we have received uh zero letters of support and zero letters of opposition for this property um so at this time the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter thank you mr. small madam chair yes so as Eric stated we did have a um about and we did meet with the greater matter pay neighborhood council on november 17 at that meeting we i presented three different proposals no issues with two of them this is being won and they ask for um feedback as an information to be forwarded to them on another project for a black person which has already been set so we did have a meeting on about this meeting and you get me about where they have a notice and again it's only one violation but i'll leave that up to you understood thank you any other questions or clarifications from board madam chair can you hear me yes we can now well it's okay thank you sorry but that no additional raise hands at the moment thank you all right today of technical difficulties uh with that we've got mayor have a motion madam chair i make a motion to approve with bpda design review thank you may i have a second second mr. better brazza yes mr mr. shopper yes mr. valencia yes as we will yes mr. steembridge yes mr. collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you madam chair members the board have a good day thank you next case b o a 139 3487 address 174 north street up is applicant Gerald patten or anyone on this team president yes madam chair yes can you state your name name and address for the record and walk us through this yes madam chair my name is cyle smith of the tarot law business address at 359 newbury street in Boston back bay we also have a representative of habitat per humanity on the call for us as well to speak about the project great who's gonna present you or them myself okay perfect you're giving me the floor yeah i am i'm sorry yes yes so speaking briefly about the project this is still currently city of Boston controlled parcels of land three in total first parcel is about 4800 square feet the second is about 4200 square feet the third is about 6400 square feet the city put out an RFP for the creation of six to eight affordable housing units of which habitat per humanity was a respondent i think that there was a couple other options but in the end habitat was elected as the winner of the RFP even though this otherwise isn't a project that would otherwise you know kind of trigger ppd involvement not being allowed to interrupt you i'm sorry madam chair i'm gonna reuse my stuff okay thank you sorry yes so we were we're not a scope of project that was otherwise trigger you know small design review or the like a bpda involvement but in light of the fact that this is a city RFP habitat for humanity has been for a period of time engaged with the bpda for design review so the end project now is the byproduct of a lot of prior involvement of the bpda and the bpda has effectively put their stamp of approval on this project so it would be the assemblage of very current vacant parcels of land of approximately 15,400 square feet and the proposal is to create seven a hundred percent of affordable housing units we've provided a a slide deck for today to step in the haines if that helps you but there's proposed to be one off street parking space accessible via Thetford so the project fronts on both Norfolk and Thetford streets seven unit seven parking spaces one per unit our rough blend of units we have one two bed one and a half bath of about 974 square feet there are three of them we have a three bed two and a half bath of approximately 1300 square feet a four bed two and a half bath of approximately 1400 a two bed one bath of about 1150 and then a three bed two bath of 480 square feet one of those seven units being ADA handicap accessible the current proponent does not own the parcel this again it's a bit too approval and relief from the city so that they can then proceed with you know closing on the parcel and initiating construction there are one and a quarter spaces required for parking we have seven in aggregate the proposal we're in a two F five thousand sub districts who arguably on three parcels if we were otherwise compliant with other building requirements we could build three two family buildings the proposal is to build seven kind of a townhouse orientation so the use and MFR is forbidden use the orientation in townhouses for been the BPDA requested the cut of bump out windows that you see which then triggered our front yard setback slightly and then we have two of our units being accessible off of Thetford so that has triggered a location of main entrance use all out fronts on Thetford doesn't front on Norfolk street are these rentals or homeownership as I understand it from habitat and I'm proponent for them for this matter first I believe all of habitat's developments are for homeownership opportunities I believe that's the design here I believe that is their continuous impregnisting model thank you are there questions from the board yes Mr. Nidz did you know what is the proposed AMI for the homeownership opportunities here uh Jerry if you know that's my have your head please but I believe it is 80 percent but I can answer that in a moment thank you did you have an idea of what would be the cost for those units for the new homeowners the portions value um Jerry again if you can comment that be great um I would note that habitats model allows them to build more reasonably priced than normal developers because their model isn't inherently requiring uh volunteering from the end owners I don't know the end costs here but you know the otherwise are are bringing units to market that other developers can't normally touch because of not using really tax credits and the like but using a lot of volunteer manpower and Mr. Rowan see a 60 to 80 percent AMI was the answer 60 okay thank you thank you thank you I was being moved to a panelist position so I didn't hear the second question my name's Jerry Pat and I'm director of construction and real estate development I have a technical immediately greater boss I think the second Mr. Valencia was the second question about cost or yes I was the cost for the 8 to 60 or 80 percent units where is the estimate cost for the new homeowners yeah um the the estimated cost are based on the income of the people that were chosen so uh what we do is we base the mortgage on never having anything greater than 30 percent of gross income uh that applies to all of their housing costs that would be mortgage uh condominium fees taxes and insurance uh so it's generally it's always 30 percent or less generally speaking it comes out around 28 percent thank you any other questions from the board okay with that I'll take up with testimony uh I don't know Jessica yes you liked it is don't want to sign for this take not get me to propose or I'll go ahead uh good evening madam chair members of the board Eric James of the Bears obviously but the pot services get uh the up before no the butters Eric you're caught you're going in and out we I think we let's move on and Eric made with the carbon-gray and the project published on the plan along with the benefits of the effort to be okay let's let's let's move on and maybe circle will circle back to you and you may need to turn off your video so um I see the mayor's office of housing is on if you could speak yes madam chair members of the board uh Christopher Rooney development officer at the mayor's office of housing uh this project will utilize three parcels of city on land for the production of seven units for affordable home ownership and M.O.H. would like to go on record in strong support of the project thank you hey only morning madam chair members of the board my name again and by any way we are from the office of council of World Rau and um the applicant receives support from the common school and neighborhood council as well as the uh tabernoyed trial and law civic association and hearing no uh opposition towards the proposal the council invites for our record in full support of 174 North Posture okay sending all right yes I was told you guys you gave me but yes my name is indeed you're used I will go ahead and pump the office of a council of Wood City in New York who wants to go on like when it's support of the proposal as well thank you thank you everyone I start up like in my Eric just want to stay in the field support opposition if he's available yeah um can you can you guys hear me yeah thank you all right um yeah definitely turn off the video so they held the abundance meeting on November 29th the common school and neighborhood council is in support of this project we have one letter of support from that council zero letters of opposition so at this time the mayor's office would like to express the judgment of the board on this matter thank you thank you any other raised hands the better chair members of the board also the city council live make a plenary council to go on record support all right thank you uh was that may I have a motion I make a motion my motion I'm pleased to see a 100% affordable homeownership project in Boston we don't see many of these coming in front of the world so with that I make a motion to approve with B.D.D.A. is hand preview thank you may have a second this is Tom can I suggest for the board the proviso just because of the affordable project it's not subject to the B.D.A.s like a large and small project review I just if we can include a proviso that the affordable units I know it's 100% affordable but we can include a proviso that the units are identified on the certificate of use in augurancy as affordable units with ISD she thought we have a way of dragging it out of new year efforts of course mr. Valencia would you like to avenge your motion wait I make him okay let's see if I remember and make a motion to approve this project uh with the proviso that the affordable units will be uh they to the we identified identified as uh affordable housing units with ISD yeah i'm just a different type of use not you but see mr. Valencia correct good enough may i have a second second thank you okay mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes miss we well yeah i'm happy to support due to the affordability but i also think the shape of the lot lends itself to the waivers being asked for dimensionally thank you mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes the chair also holds yes motion carries good luck and thank you for providing this 100% affordability madam chair made is clarify the provisos um do you want to repeat it for us to make sure it's correct yes madam chair um rise up for bpna design review um and then we have the uh proviso that the units that are will be identified on the certificate of use and august that's for the structure so i believe that is it is 100% affordable but it will just be probably on each certificate for each unit saying it's an affordable unit just so that we can track it up going forward thank you appreciate thank you thank you all very much excellent next project next on their gender we have case b o a 1418931 with an address of 64th street because the applicant shan george or any of his team members present hi is it you Charlie you need to represent the applicant yes good afternoon madam chair and board of appeal members um i'm not sure i'm visible no i have to make your panelists it's going to mute you for a second so when i do do that just unmute yourself when you're in the panelists up you thank you just good good afternoon madam chair and board of appeal members i'm mr. Charlie tevne and in the attorney with the business address of 15 broad street Boston i represent james or solven and nary teresa or solven of 55th manor street to address to the owners of 50 excuse me 60 for a street also on this hearing representing the applicant is the project architect Greg spalling and uh spalling to gaius architects the proposal before you is or a six unit residence with 12 off street parking spaces on a 10,751 square foot line this is relating to 60 follow street which is located in a one family 7,000 sub district and is governed by article 65 there are 38 of other letters which have been submitted in support of this proposed project in review of the violations the first is that the proposed parking includes parking located within five feet of the side lot line and in in comment to that the directive butter at number 62 fuller street which who would be affected by the proximity to the side lot has submitted a letter in support of this project in regarding the use regulations a multi-family residential mf r is a forbidden use in in a one family 7,000 district however fuller street in general is a mix of many multi-cension dwellings the including a six family on one side of 64 three family on the other side of 64 and a six family directly across the street in 64 the uh f a r in the sub district is point 0 is rather point four and the f a r proposed is point seven two the building height the maximum height is 35 feet we're requesting approval for 37 the side yard the minimum side yard requirement is 12 feet what is proposed is 30 feet on the left side of the building and six feet setback to the right which would require our variance the rear yard we are seeking a variance for the rear yard setback the required setback is 50 feet which is significant in the larger than most other zoning sub districts in an effort to meet that requirement the proposed setback is 46 feet four feet sure of the requirement on the final violation which is the location of the main entrance the there is you'll see that the there is an entrance on the front of the building which is intended to keep it in context with the surrounding residences but the main entrance is so that would be the entrance to one unit but the main entrance to the other units is on the side which is closer to the parking area as I said a moment ago the this particle of street consists of mainly or mostly multi-cension dwellings and this location is very close to the ashmont and the t.a. station and at so the lot size 10,700 in one square feet it is one of the largest lots on polar street there is an existing curb cut so no one in additional parking would be lost by a curb cut to access to the 12 off street parking spaces two spaces per unit of the proposed the parking will be located along the side of the into the rear of the residence will be screened by offense the existing structure which is in poor condition is not considered historically significant according to the landmarks commission and is not up to current goals and standards based upon the dimensions of this lot and the surrounding structures on polar street we believe that the proposed project is in context with the abutting properties on polar street as noted previously 57 polar street is a six unit building 54 or 56 polar street is a six unit building and it's actually located on a smaller one and as I said previously 38 immediate abouters have expressed their written support for this project including direct abouters located on either side of 64 or street and directly across the street I believe at least one of those abouters we will hear from the ONS etc on that thank you I would just like to say also the the the building consists of three three bedroom units two two bedroom units with either an office or potentially a nursery and one two bedroom units so these are all family sized units the aggregate living space proposed 7704 square feet on this quarter acre lot it offers a transition from the size of 54 or 56 polar street where the FAR is pointing to and 62 polar where the FAR is 0.66 the building plan which the architect Rex ball of the discuss has two units per floor and on a total of three fields looking at the surrounding the surrounding neighborhood we feel this is an appropriate project three stories structure and I want to just report on the fact that that the at the initial abouters meeting which we had two we had one in every of these are tevenin oh and s will talk about the public process in the community process thank you all right I think in closing the we held an additional abouters meeting in January after the ZBA notices had been sent out that was not a required abouters meeting but took place because we had tried once again to reach out to the Ashmont Valley neighborhood association to represent the project the board of appeal and the neighborhood residents you don't need looking at 20 polar street which is just a few doors down to see the quality of construction to expect that was a project previously approved approved by the board and was built by this applicant James Sullivan and I believe that that is why so many director butters are in support of this project we architect thank you thank you let's let's open it up to questions at this time any questions from the board my my only concern is the the use of open space for parking you have six six families but if I can count here there's eight nine nine eleven twelve proposed parking spaces so that's two vehicles per per unit can you you know can you discuss that need of that amount of parking spaces I I would like to say that I think that the parking spaces actually wouldn't incentivize the residents to utilize the off-street parking rather on-street but I think that the the applicant is open to increasing open space I think that the the proposal of twelve parking spaces was really in the difference to to the neighborhood and to keep any possible cars off the street okay I think Bob is going to speak unadded if you can please go to the fourth page I think one yeah the fourth page where it shows the the open area okay I like to hear Bob's thank you madam chair and members of the board Bob the vehicle BCD like I said earlier on that many things we brought a project the proximity of the building to the ash pond station I don't think would require two spaces per unit transit oriented development I think we'll apply here and I'll go on on the limit and request that the space is being reduced the fix with an increased amount of open space thank you Bob thanks Bob then you do you want to respond to that before we open it up I think I would defer to mr. Spawding Greg Spawding which I wonder if he has been elevated to a panelist Jessica he says Spawding come in a second in the meantime are there any other questions from the board as you get elevated randomly sorry can you accept a panelist designation okay yourself sorry go ahead yeah I just like to echo my concerns with the parking at this site just reads is very over-parked to me I think we also need to consider things like the heat island effect in the neighborhoods this is less than half a mile from the ash knot T station so I think I would align my comments to support less parking and less paving in this area I would deferred of mr. Spawding who I see is now a panelist I also I'm sorry to interrupt and after here from mr. Spawding I would also like to hear from Jeff Hampton from the BPA in terms of the recommendation and also in regards to position about headhouse in this neighborhood just is no longer on the hearing but I can read his recommendation back into the record when appropriate I believe I heard a comment of six parking spaces was that correct that was a recommendation from Bob yes up because zoning would require a worse for six units so we're currently at 10 if you count the tandem is 0.75 and we spoke at the honor before and he's open to discussing open space versus parking okay any other questions before we open it up all right uh was that can I take public testimony good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office of neighborhood services the applin hands completed their community process our office held in the letters meeting in February of 2021 and they have uh undergone further community outreach for the project with the butters the local civic association first met over the project in June of 2021 and opposed opposed the project at that time we'd like to defer to the board's judgment at this time thank you thank you uh cast the royals office yes morning from the afternoon I'm chair members of the board um in regards to 50 poetry our office received the 31 letters of opposition as well as the 38 letters of support for 60 poetry and um despite um the applicants best efforts to uh meet with the ashmont valley civic association that Moe was never accomplished so as it stands right now the council would like the option to defer for more community engagement with the butters Bob go ahead uh yes I found the vehicle uh btp I understand the zoning allows one and a half space for you and whenever when it comes to transit oriented development i something of the btp uh to change that and and give a different opinion based on that I expect my recommendation uh to six parking spaces but then increase them open space thank you thanks for the work it out additional raised hands and and also can I just get clarification that access to the grift deck is for the top unit or is it for all residents there is no roof deck proposed and the uh one of the requests from the ashmont valley enable an association and the butters at the first about us meeting the uh enable the association meeting was um to provide a no possible addition for future solar panels so the architect has agreed and the um owner has agreed to reengineer the roof so that it could accommodate solar panels but there is no plan for a roof deck thank you that was that man entertainer motion um now I'm sorry sorry someone asked about bpds recommendation madam chair yes madam chair this is jimmy gachord city council frame bakers office although this project isn't in our district we do borderless in several of our people in our district have have echoed support for this project just want to go on record thank you and uh reading bpds recommendation to the record bpda recommends approval with proposal that plans be submitted to bpda for design review paying particular attention to reducing impervious area increasing the side in rear yard potentially through reduction of parking spaces so certainly in mind the conversation we have so with that may I have a motion madam chair I see a hand up would you still like also an emotion forward uh I'm sorry Jessica is that for this project money take away yes um watch up when you look and give testimony for this proposal so Trevor yes okay go ahead I am chief and I and I live at 57th full of screen and I approve 16 full of screen I think it's a beautiful thing I can't wait thank you I can't I can't wait to see the new building go up in a big full of screen look a little lot better than what it looks now it just bring out the neighborhood thank you madam chair members of the board i apologize my internet was unstable this is Paul Sullivan to go for a chemical play that's the regency board thank you seems to be the day of it uh with that thank you miss bed browser with that may have a motion madam chair I like to put forward a motion of approval with to provisal that the parking we reduced to six spaces to allow for more open open air open space and then the second proviso is to remove the penthouse and replace it with a roof hatch to allow for accessibility of the roof can I just clarify the second one because I thought the applicant said there was no uh there's no roof there's no roof deck but there's a penthouse and currently on the street there's really no penthouse that currently exists within the character of the neighborhood excellent thank you may I have a second hi second miss bedabraza yes mr shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes miss we will yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you madam chair thank you members of the board the next case is BOA 1409762 address 1587 blue 11 is the applicant while he is around yes yes i'm here can you hear me yes good so my name is Zahra and and down a little 1587 blue and I've been in business like about 25 years I mean I just want to add the smoothie shop my store's password okay well that seems fairly straightforward any questions or concerns nothing but like we have a plenty of parking lot outside is on a street parking any questions through the board man have public testimony just get is there public testimony I have no raised hints in my chair sorry then well in that case man I think sorry madam chair it should be aren't let me look quick my apologies all right now can you guys hear me yes all right so good oh good afternoon madam chair members of the board Eric James the mayor's office of neighborhood services the applicant for 1587 Blue Hill had no butters meeting on the summer 1st 2023 they met with the madam and square main streets which voted to support them so in total we have received zero one letter of support and zero letters of opposition for this property at this time the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter thank you thank you all right with that may I may I have a motion think a motion you're a prayer may I have a second so i can't think it's better brazo yes mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes miss we will yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes chair also works yes motion carries good luck sir thank you you move on to the 11th 30 am praise case number B O A 133 2009 five with an address of 130 module street and the applicant is star property holdings they present or anyone on the team mr. Secretary that that sorry this is attorney Jeff Dredo I had deferred that earlier in the name my fault no no no no he hit mentioned 130 marks yes yes that was deferred but i am speaking that's no thank you moving on moving on to case them P O A 128 3 29 4 with an address of 47 48 snow hills 3 applicant Ryan Metals and i'm sorry the gentleman just spoke for the time mr. Diego you know you're not in chair members of the board attorney Jeff Dredo with Dredo with the sconto with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here and on behalf of the owners and applicants Ryan and Julie Metals and i also have Eric Zacherson who's the architect from context design as this mentioned this is a proposal to erect a one story edition with a walk out deck and to also include renovations to unit number two just a pause on this slide on madam basser you can see where the red highlighted thought is that is the existing structure and in relation to some of the other buildings around in my client is trying to remain in the north end with his growing family and to add an addition which will infill the back and to go up a level just to point out this particular district allows for a 55 foot height so what we are proposing is actually 46 feet six inches so we're well below that and we're actually going to be lower than the buildings to the left of us this particular addition in space we give some walk out deck space to the family it would also add on a half bath it would allow a home office and just enlarge in space in the kitchens and bedroom areas just to go over if we go to the next slide briefly this just shows looking straight ahead the existing structure and how it stands you can see we are significantly lower to the building to the left of us we will still be slightly under the height of that building next slide please and you can just see in relation among hall street as well as snow hill some of the variations and sizes of the buildings but many of them as you can see in headhouses and walk out roof decks as part of their proposal and our go up as high as four and a half to six stories in that general area the first floor of this building is another unit so that's a separate condo that's connected with the basement unit also that would remain the same unit two is the existing condo that we're looking at the addition that would now have three levels on level one that would have living dining kitchen and a half bath unit level three would have two bedrooms one bath an office and laundry that's the area would be in filling and then finally the new level four would be a one bedroom one and a half bath with a walk out deck so there's not included roof deck just simply a walk out deck on that area as we went through this proposal with the community we actually made a number of champions first of all we reduced the fourth story edition from eight hundred eighty one square feet down to three hundred and fifty square feet we eliminated the roof deck on the building which so many of the other neighbors do have we proposed deck space was reduced from eight hundred square feet the walk out deck down to three hundred fifty we lowered our roof line and we reduced our height from 51 feet ten inches to 46 feet six inches we also added a four foot rare pullback and working with our neighbors and trying to repeat folks along hull street to cut that away and when I turn this over to the architect we will show some pictures of that as well we also have minimum variances that they were asking for we only create one new violation and that is roof structure restriction as I said this area does allow for fifty up to 55 feet our FAR will go up slightly but it's a pre-existing violation and we were cited for pre-existing violation for minimum area but we're not changing that the building concords and the back will be exactly the same if we could go to the next slide and I'm going to turn this over to Eric Zacherson who's the architect to go over the top floor Eric's office thank you Jeff Eric Zacherson nine Zach Bell Street and Charles town on the architect clinical project context can we slide roll to the next slide please this basically shows the unit two which is the unit we're talking about level two is within the existing on-low level three and contains the living and dining space and kitchen level three which is the drawing in the middle of this shows the bedroom level with a bedroom on the left and a bedroom on the right and the kind of family style bathroom in the back and this is kind of a small floor front foot great so we're not seeing we're not seeing multiple bathrooms multiple bedrooms just that these two and then on the top floor the current proposal the proposal before today is to to add this kind of flex office yet that based up the top level with a powder room the intention you know as Jeff said is to to accommodate the growing family but at this top level we're not showing a full bathroom just a powder room flex space and then the walkout space to the right the important thing to note here is that we have kind of working with the neighbors we've arranged we've put this which was at one point a full like a full new level we've reduced it to be in lower left here with the kind of the south east corner of the side you can see how it set back four feet from the rear as if the what'll be the the roof of level three and in doing that we are kind of nestling up against our neighbor to the left which is a taller building and then having the roof back the walkout back on level four into the right side of the so that it kind of minimizes shadows into the into the neighbors and into the rear yard next slide please. This is a front elevation but I think the next slide actually has a better comparison so you see on the bottom here that the existing condition with our building being the one squarely in the middle it's currently three stories with a tall peaked roof above that you see the proposed condition where we would have a similar expression on the upper floor but we've nestled the the at this and the fourth story edition up against our taller neighbors the left and create kind of a stepping situation where we're not as tall as our neighbor to the left we're a little taller than our neighbor to the right the roof the walkout deck is on the right side of it and that guest base is on the on the left with the third floor and the second floor being within the existing footbread to the building that's all I have at the moment. Thank you. I'm sorry. Yes so just to confirm it looks like you've tried to keep the height a little bit lower on the side the lower building and a lot more aligned with the building on the left correct. Great thank you. Any any questions or concerns on the plans? Can you just confirm that this has been reviewed by historic commission? I don't know or commission no. Not yet. Okay. I don't have further questions. That's it. Any other questions from the board? All right I see a lot of raised hands so I'll turn it over to Jessica. Welcome Madam Chair, Madam Agile first. I can't see who's speaking. I'm Zach Garner from Neighborhood Services. Sure. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office look deferred to the judgment of this board. Some backer information on the community process are office hosts and the butters being on May 3rd. There were some concerns expressed from the butters and I believe they submitted letters to this office. The applicant went on to meet with NURA who sent any letter of opposition but received support from NUNIC with that we deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I see Luigi from Representative Michael's Office. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Luigi Natali from Representative Aaron Michael with this office and we are opposition office projects. Hello, members of the board. I'm Cindy Gugins from House of the Luigi Luzions Office without also an opposition office project. Thank you. Elaine. Madam Chair, members of the board. Elaine Dunford and Councillor Kula's Office. The council would like to go on record in opposition to this project. Thomas? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Thomas Manu can Councillor Murfie's office. Councillor Murfie would also like to go on the record as opposed to this project. Thank you. Yep, Yemina. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Yemina Lashman. I'm here on behalf of Senator Edward's Office. The senator would like to go on record in opposition of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Maria. Maria, we have a clean gift present here. Okay, we'll go ahead and know what. Can you say her name and address for the record please? No, after March. This is the 44th Snow Hill Street. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. My family supports the proposed changes. I live two houses to the left. My property is featured prominently in the designs that we just reviewed. I'm an owner, I'll keep it in. You just saw a great view of my wonderful rooftop deck. We appreciate my family appreciates the concerns. Raised by fellow butters, but we commend the Meadows family for having incorporated so much of the community's feedback into their plans. And I would note that in my opinion preserving the architectural style of the neighborhood, what I'd like to point out is that some of the costs to having neighbors can be immediate and cute, sun, open space, etc. But the benefits are more abstract, but ultimately more valuable. The truth is that most families today need more space than can be provided by the four plans of the past. And as neighbors, if we can't find a way to enable families like the Meadows to stay in the North End as they grow, well, our neighborhood will slowly but surely lose the families that they can revive our community. I think this trade office overlooked. I think our priorities are misplaced. As I listen to the stories of my neighbors, they tell me about how many children were used to be in the North End. I think we need to acknowledge this because without families, the North End is a different neighborhood. So my family in summary supports this proposal because it's reasonable, moderate, considerate, reserves the architectural style of the neighborhood. And most importantly, because we want families like the Meadows to continue to call the North End home to allow our child to grow up with other children in this very special neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I'm Maria. Hi, this is Maria. Can you say a few more names? I guess for the marketplace. Maria Chapa, Floddy Apes, Snow Hill Street. I own the condo on the first floor. My family is on this property for many, many years and now they've all passed. And I lived along for quite a while in this building with a shot rental. Yeah, I feel very safe with the Meadows moving in. I'm in full support of families in the North End, especially the ones that want to get involved in the community like the Meadows who are involved with our dog park that I run and who involved with the Todd LePock with their child. As a woman who lives alone and upper age, I can't imagine anybody else but a family moving in this property. And I welcome the Meadows and I hope there's some flexibility with the council. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, sorry, the Internet instability, Paul Sullivan, the council has Michael Flaherty, the council would like to go on record in that position. Thank you. Bill? My name is Bill Verdi. I'm a director of butter. My building, I've been down here for 39 years. My building is six feet away from Mr Meadows. If he goes up, it's going to affect this five director butters. We're going to be adversely affect and we'll post this variance. It's going to diminish sunlight, privacy and views. His roof deck will be five feet, six feet away from my bedroom. We have met with Mr Meadows and tried to give him a compromise. He didn't want it. It's pretty much all of nothing for him. And as far as families go, it's big enough for a family now. So we have over 50 sign letters of opposition against this proposal. And it's just really going to add, Verdi affect everybody behind the building. They don't show on there. They don't show that rear of their building on their proposal and that's the buildings. And I hope. Thank you. Okay, I have no at the moment. So please have a connective issue here. But okay, there was one more hanging. Sorry, Eva. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, yes. My name is Eva Scopegio, 30 charter street in the north end. I am here to support the Meadows. I have lived in the north end for 23 years. I grew up in a one for bed, two bed with my mother. I lived basically in a closet. And my mom got the right to build up. And while we live in a comfortable home, the Meadows have been nothing but kind and patient. I just want to stress and say that I work in this community. I work with our youth. I'm a caregiver to about 10 families. And to have a family stay here is what the north end needs through preserve. It's authenticity of that our strong heritage and our family bond. So I am in full support of this project. Thank you. No additional lose hands. How much you may have an opportunity to respond? Briefly yes. I just wanted to point out we really did try to work with all of the neighbors by reducing the size of the addition, cutting down the height from 51, 10 to 46 feet, six inches, pulling in the back quadrant, four feet and taking off the roof deck. We really did try to accommodate everyone with the Meadows, but also give them some additional living space. Mr. Daryl, I'm sorry, the notice mentions a roof deck. So are you saying there is no roof deck? There's no second to walk out. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board before we take this? Yes, I would like to get clarification from Tom or Mr. Dreygo in terms of the property. I see that it's on the neighborhood design overlay district. Does it also require to be reviewed by the landmarks commission? It does not. Mr. Bedaburaz. Okay. Great. That's the only clarification question that I have. Thank you. And I believe there is a recommendation from the BPDA, correct? There was nothing. Yes. The BPD recommendation. BPDA recommends approval with proposal that plan be submitted to BPD for design review with special attention to proposed roof deck and balconies. You're saying there is no roof deck, right? Correct. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review paying special attention to the fourth floor massing and deck. May I have a second? A second. Mr. Bedaburaz. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins. Yes. Okay. The Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next case we have B-O-A-138-3661. Address 329-329-A Columbus Avenue. The African-Perville Power LLC. Any other team members here? Hello. Mr. Secretary, this is Mike Ross, Madam Chair, Members of the Board. I am an attorney with the law from a principal bout one international place. I'm joined by co-counsel today, Leslie Delaney Hawkins, and our client, Desifrand Joule. This is a minority applicant which is 100% Boston resident and a Boston equity applicant approved by the Boston Cannabis Board, seeking to place a retail cannabis dispensary at this location at 329-Colombus Ave. As you can see in this photo here, the site was previously the location of a restaurant called Coda. Incidentally, that restaurant was open until 1 a.m. It's no longer open or operating. The proposed hours of operations for this dispensary would be 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. and that was negotiated with an agreement with the Ellis Neighborhood Association. And on Sundays, the applicant would be open from noon until 8 p.m. The building itself is a mixed use residential and commercial building to the community commercial sub-district in the south end neighborhood district. And the use of a cannabis establishment is a conditional use allowed by conditional use permit in this part of the district. You could go to the next slide which shows you the surveys. This is a tenant fit out only so there are no exterior work elements, but I'll point out that on the left side would be Columbus Ave on the right side would be the alleyway and the same entry and the same exits would be preserved just as they were when this was a restaurant. Next slide please here you will see the basement floor plan. So that is closed to the public. Obviously that is where we have our main vault access for deliveries would be through the rear, through an alley just like it was. It was a restaurant and then access to the upper floor as you can see at the middle of the plan at the bottom is a stairwell for the main floor which is the first floor which is that ground level accessible on Columbus. So you can go to that next slide if you couldn't add them to the best or I'll show you that. Yeah thank you for assuming it. I think this is the basement. I think the next slide will bring you up to the first floor. There we go. If you wanted to zoom in like you did before that was kind of nice but you don't have to. I think we're back on the basement and ambassador. One more slide please. Okay so this is the first floor and entrance again on the left from Columbus Ave and that first two thirds of this floor plan that's for public access and there in the middle you see this kind of serpentine counter that divides really the front from the back. You can't go past that of course. There will be four point of sale stations on that counter to do transactions and then the rear of that like that back third really that is a backup house. There's a two two restrooms for employees only. There's a smaller vault or day-to-day use as opposed to a slightly larger vault downstairs for the two to three day use and fulfillment areas as well. The front of the facility right there we see it says check-in so that's where of course people would be I did but part of the agreement we had with Alice was to always have two security people on site when open and in the case of one of those security people they would be right outside the front door there kind of in that alcove and the purpose of that person in addition to checking ideas and keeping an eye out on things is also to make sure that no one pulls up to the facility and tries to double park and tries to run in that was a big concern during the process and so that person is always going to have eyes on that and no one would be allowed in if that was the circumstances there. So those are kind of the main we're talking about just for square-pointed purposes to give you a sense we're about 1500 square feet on this floor about 1400 square feet on the bottom floor dissipating probably around 49 people capacity total including employees of the facility that's actually down from the 70 that the code arrest around was able to have I will go to the next slide we could man ambassador you go down well that was your close-up but but that's okay we got through it I just I included a couple of cameras we're going to have 20 cameras inside probably five cameras outside there's controlled access points throughout the next slide we'll show you that as well madam ambassador who I'm just hit the next slide and here right is just a rendering of what the ground floor will look like and that you can see in the distance that's that front in that check-in area that I described earlier there's that counter that really separates the public area from the private area there'll be counters along the side as well so that's just a rendering next slide just to give you a quick context here this is within so this sighting here is within is outside of by half a mile right of any other dispensary and that's that's significant because we're not it would trigger a a variance and that's significant of course because we are under the conditional use standard as opposed to the variance standard which would be a much higher standard so on this slide and then on the next slide it just shows that we're within a half mile buffer so madam ambassador this also shows you the numerous number of parking facilities that are near this area if you know the area you would know that there are a number of parking facilities in the area we did have in contract fosso meal fosso meal which is a reputable engineering firm and we did provide their transportation study to the board ahead of this hearing a four-year review and then the next slide fosso meal also helped us understand the width of our sidewalk right so we're at an eight foot four width of our sidewalk by most standards that's a ample sidewalk the reason why we studied this is because there were concerns that we had too narrow of a sidewalk here so down in that lower right hand corner you see other previously approved sidewalk widths that this board did approve that actually have smaller than the eight four eight four is fairly ample and that was produced by a fosso meal also and that was presented to your board as well madam chair ahead of this here I there might be one more slide yeah so I'll leave it to Mayor's office and neighborhood services to talk about the community or they just wanted to close out there and there's any questions on available thank you and can you remind us I I think I would call one of the reasons for deferral was to ask for more community process I might be right that's correct thank you so attorney Hawkeens handled the community outreach I think we had ten meetings and madam chair with the community we do have that letter that agreement with the Ellis Neighbor Association which we're very happy to have have gotten but I would ask if my co-counsel has if it's alright madam chair anything to add with regard to what happened before the deferral and today absolutely thank you very much my madam chair Leslie Delaney Hawkeens with the law firm of Prince LaValle Ty we did have upwards and we've detailed this and what was submitted to the board numerous community meetings above and beyond what is statutorily required and that also involved Desi Franjules from Purple Power meeting one-on-one with anyone and everyone in the south end that that would have a conversation with her and that the prior deferral was simply to allow her continuing to do that person on person outreach questions from the board can you just please discuss your hours of operation yeah so the hours of operations would be Monday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. that we were allowed to do 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. but agreed to 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. due to the agreement with Ellis neighborhood and then on Sundays we are we would be a noon tapioam is better for us thank you thank you and look for other questions other questions from the board just we feel for us I understand that the applicant is equity applicant what is the definition of how they feel these requirements so there are a number of criteria that that will allow you to be an aggregate them one of them is if you're a boss in residence one of them is if you identify with a minority status if you will a black Latino such this applicant identifies as a Latinx descent shoot desi is on the call as well there's also other criteria around income and and it's all determined by the boss in cannabis board there are six different criteria and if you qualify for three you are a equity applicant and that was the case here thank you thank you I'm sorry one more question what's in the second story in terms of use so above us are our condominiums okay thank you thank you okay and with that I'm guessing there's some public testimony so we'll try to limit if folks can make sure you're building upon others and not repeating the same information that would be green Jessica we'll start with on us hi good afternoon madam chair members of the board can crucially from my office of neighborhood services office would like to defer to the board on this matter the applicant did an extensive community outreach process they held two of their own private informational meetings as well as met with the Alice neighborhood association three times our office held the official statutory butters meeting in May of 2022 that was widely attended by about 140 butters concerns over traffic pedestrian safety parking ordering and proximity to a public park were raised our office received over 150 letters and signatures of support for this proposal as well as 150 letters and signatures of opposition to the proposal again we would like to defer to the board on this matter thank you good afternoon madam of the chairman members of the board and I'm calling the role from council president flings office the councilor provided a letter to the board in non opposition and he would like to recognize that this is a like a reapplicant and minority and black owned business who reside in Boston in the last few months we have her concerns from residents and community leaders about having a kind of a distance area at this particular location neighbors and a barters have highlighted that the proposed location is an already busy area with cars and pedestrian nothing on a range of existing pedestrian safety issues that may be exacerbated by double parking and increased congestion some Columbus Avenue the councilor will appreciate the proponent appreciate the proponent for having up to actively reaching out to the community and having engaged through a community process and therefore the council that are would like to be non-obrows thank you thank you Anna Thomas good afternoon madam chair members of the board at this time councilor murky would like would say the she's in non opposition and also just want to make a point that we have work with this proponent in the past and you know they are very good with the community process and being able to compromise so just want to make that point thank you Luigi Luigi you're looking to get testimony step the way madam chair members of board my name is Luigi Natali with representative Michael with his office and he is an opposition of this project thank you and then i'll go to lift and comments on the attendee section if people couldn't again just be brief and not read from paper if you can just summarize if you're in support in our position start with Louis station name and address for the record please hi my name is Louise Dow I'm a director of otter at three twenty five kilometers avenue and one of the trustees of my association so i'm in opposition i submitted a letter to you signed by twenty one people from my building in strong opposition to the dispensary that is all but one person from my association we also have signatures from the people above where the business would be the director butters on the other side people who live on the other side of the shared alley and large numbers of people on the same block all in strong opposition okay okay Brian can you state your name and address for the record please thanks madam chair members of the board it's Brian Sue I'm about to live in a three of three kilometers avenue i'm opposed to projects at this particular location i want to comment on some of the the most recently filed note by the business owner but i want to reiterate a really really important point which is there's a lot of active opposition here over 150 of butters i don't believe the supporters are actually of butters so if there's 150 of butters that are formally in opposition but it's really due to the specific facts of this particular location we pointed out publicly other locations in the neighborhood which would not create the set of issued nor in general this type of opposition including two locations they're actually within a block or so of the proposed site there's been no engagement on any of those alternatives and also correct the record or at least just for the record since the post-moment of the early December appearing as far as i'm aware there's been no identifiable public outweat with of butters and concerned residents in opposition who have serious concerns the only thing was added was a note on the sidewalk adequacy or or inadequacy as the case may be and as Mike was mentioned they compared to three from outer-stall sites but they're downtown they're very very different from a highly practic highly residential zone and we sent to an exhibit with photos in detail that makes deep rather a lot of force nature of those comparisons pretty obvious um lastly regarding the problem of the sidewalk there are no or additional filing only reinforced an original error by not addressing the real issue here when you measure the sidewalk width you may know this already but the sidewalk here is very problematic it's actually the most narrow sidewalk in all of Columbus Avenue in South America and it is so narrow that actually fails to meet the minimal by-peat city guideline who are effective sidewalks with you probably know this but effective sidewalk width which very reasonably refers to only the usable pedestrian space and exclusive areas taken up by obstruction right things like I don't know pre-wells hybrids sign it that's a relevant measure meant here basically you just measure sidewalk and what you find to be other yeah Joshua can please name an address and give me new information please hi can you hear me yes hi my name is Joshua Love all of the business address of 185 W. Chir Street 10th floor in Boston my office represents members of the neighborhood action committee which is submitted a petition in opposition signed by over 185 of butters located close to this location without repeating I would like to emphasize the sidewalk concern mixed with the fact that there would be a security guard post to apparently buy or outside the door which is further aggravates that issue um another significant concern here is the applicant's position that no buffer zone conflict exists the ZGAs charge are enforcing the Boston zoning code and that Boston zoning code provides for the half mile buffer zone I'm concerned with the applicants exhibit showing walking distance in 0.6 miles walking distance is not the metric provided in the Boston zoning code it's a 0.5 mile buffer from law line to law line so this is actually well within that and that highlights a larger concern that the applicant's materials don't seem to be addressing the issues head on that seems like a sidestep so that applicant should address that legal position how it's complying with the zoning code the board's reference that's a footnote 14 on table A and article 64 there's also obviously significant opposition on the conditional use factors which I think we've already been addressed but that's the biggest concern really is that standard not being met for the variance thank you welcome get please switch your name and address and give new information state of hearing support yes yes Malcolm McDonald 121 Chandler street I am a butter to this location I am opposed to this application there have been numerous issues that have been brought up over the entire period of this going on I keep hearing references to a quote deal that has been cut with the Ellis neighborhood association none of the issues that have been raised by the neighborhood have been addressed in any way throughout this process and neighborhood engagement since these issues were raised has been effectively zero the issues raised as it relates to buffer zone sidewalk I think are well documented I'm not going to go through those this is one of the most dangerous intersections in the south end and no one that I'm aware of that is an opposition to this application is opposed to a dispensary it is they are simply opposed to it in this location which will make an already dangerous situation significantly worse okay Todd station name and address for the record please hello my name is Todd Davis I'm at 325 Columbus Avenue and I'm all for the rest of the year for building you have to remember the rendering from the front the ground floor of the dispensary that bank of cabinets that's in there is actually the point of my living room dining room and it's all so I'm the closest to butter of anyone I'd like to state my strong support of this project it addresses they have addressed every concern there's been the sidewalk that people keep talking about they're not even measuring that property what they're talking about is my property with it has three the one and three far of three 29 has no furniture three pits or anything else in front of that proper it goes from the building to the street on you know up I'd also like to say that what I do support the property and the petition and letters that you seem to be getting should look at those very closely the most the last one that I saw because I'm not involved in this the last one I saw had fabricated signatures and one signature with even from a three year old so I would take that with a grain of salt so I would like to very much register my support and create security both the front the back because I stare not only the wall but the street front it and the front it's in the alley thank you is there anyone from Alice since the councilor Ross keeps mentioning Alice neighborhood I think that would be helpful yeah that's hard to say but the hands I wish to have about eight raised hands you want me well I want us we've heard a lot from opposition so I just want to make sure if there's anyone in support that we hear from them as well maybe help the rob and then that if you're in support can you just raise your hand please exactly thank you okay Mike can you state your name in Agissa the Market please okay James you're looking to give to the you in support of the project so can you state your name in Agissa the Market please yes I am good afternoon my name is James Fanny and I have been the positive community for decades I've been helping businesses like God the ego fritz club cafe from the 80s to the 90s to the early 2000 I am in full support of this business as this location I keep hearing all this stuff about this business at this location this business is going to do this this is wrong that's wrong I am also an economic empowerment advocate as well we've been having such a hard time getting a location when we get a location we're always hearing the same thing we love you guys we're going to at this location we love you guys we're in support but just not at this location this is going to be a good location this is a good advocate they have addressed every single thing to all the people in the neighborhood Devarek goes over in the park so I am in full support of this business thank you Mike yes my turn is and I'm in total support for this hello hello my name is my Curtis and I live at 333 Columbus South and I'm in total support for this I've lived here for 30 years and it's always a five that's next door with this with herbal herbal power there'll be someone there who will watch the door there'll be and it'll be open till nine not late until two like the father would usually be they'll also have cameras to keep an eye on the street and accountability which is something we really need so I am for this 100% and everyone in my building is as well and we'll be right next door to this okay thank you you'll make keep going Matt and chair this tomorrow yes any questions from the board does the board wish to hear any additional testimony okay I can't see you guys are you ready for a the solidarity to make a motion Matt and chair only a commotion to approve but I like to just go on the record I think they use these uses operate similarly to other retail commercial uses and I think they're heavily regulated beyond zoning and I also think as more are approved the demand spreads out so there's not a mad rush to you know one approved store is those second can I add a can I recommend a proviso only if kitty agrees but doesn't have to accept of course I would suggest for this applicant only and I would also because it's in a residential area in Xbox Semini I would recommend a proviso of the hours of operation which has ever been stated from Monday to Saturday from nine to 10 to nine p.m. but on Sunday rather than closing at nine to close at six p.m. so from 12 to six on Sunday it's currently eight p.m. but do you accept the proviso about six p.m. and you can you can reject but I that would just be my recommendation is there a reason I just think with that I will get it spread out to you as well but it's just it's in a populate all around residential district and it's proximity and it's just being conscientious of that but you can reject like I said I mean does anyone else on the board I mean I know it's next to Clarie's as well which I don't know I'm fine it was this experience I don't think it'll make that much a difference okay I'll just accept it okay do I have a second thank you miss better brazza yes mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia mom sure I think the project has substantial community process they follow the requirements from Boston cannabis board I understand that there are a lot of emotions about this we read the letters of support and opposition but with that I'm moving forward to say yes to emotion and support this project thank you miss we well yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes the chair also votes yes motion carries they go very much have a very nice day next on the agenda we have case BOA 1146747 it's an address of nine Oswald applicants this Oswald LLC are there any their team president yes madam chair members of the board mr. secretary attorney nixzzule McDermick Quilty and Miller 28th state street in Boston here on behalf of Adam Sardin who's the property owner and lives at the property you could see well waiting for us the first slide it looks like to open up but hopefully this is a little bit more straightforward than the last one madam chair this is just an existing three family it's an owner occupied three family where mr. Sardin was lives and nine Oswald street in mission Hill the proposal seeks permission to change occupancy from the existing three family to a four family by simply utilizing existing and approved legal living space in the lower level here you can see on the first page an image of the building from the street and we'll be fitting it out with a new kitchen and other interior work with upgraded sprinklers if you go to the next slide madam ambassador you'll just be the existing conditions you can see on the left hand side the existing space on the lower level it currently includes two bedrooms a family room and a bathroom but these this living areas all connected to the first floor unit which you can see on the right hand side existing altogether this is a six bedroom three bath unit when you include the lower level space and the first floor space as it is today and if you go to the next slide madam ambassador you'll see the proposed conditions which breaks off this lower level a lower level space into its own two bed one bath unit it adds a kitchen there on the left hand side that you can see is highlighted some closet space as well as a new and expanded egress well on the bottom and expanded egress well at the top of the page for that lower level unit so this would make the first floor unit madam chair into kind of a more standard four bedroom two bath unit instead of a six bedroom three bath away it is now that new unit on the on the left hand side would be nine hundred eighty nine square feet so it's a nice large two bedroom it does most adequate ceiling heights seven feet six inches and there would be no expansion of the bedroom calm down there it would continue to be two bedrooms in one bath which is what it is today if you go to the next slide madam ambassador you'll see this is just it's a little tough to see but we can zoom in if you want it does show the grade and elevations it does show these replaced and expanded egress wells both at the front in at the rear of the property and then there are side windows as well which go into this lower level living space the next slide madam ambassador is if it comes up it's just a a Boston Water and Saurik Commission approval that just shows the new sprinkler connections so this would upgrade life safety to the building and to the new unit it's a fairly simple plan you can go to the next slide madam ambassador maybe if this one isn't coming out out there this again this just shows the the Boston Water approval that just shows the new sprinkler connections just so there's adequate life safety to the building and you madam ambassador if you go to the next few slides if they pop up I don't know if they'll load or not but the next few slides just will you know show photos of the existing living conditions down there madam chair you know just to show the living space it's already down there there's adequate lighten air there actually already is a door to the unit at the rear that would just be utilized for entrance to the unit if this were approved and it just shows the windows and overall the living area down there I apologize it looks like it's not loading I don't know if you can scroll down madam ambassador if it's just a problem on that slide or every slide so it looks like that's okay so these slides although it's dark now it would show and if it does pop up during testimony we can go back to it but madam it just shows the living area that's down there that there is you know adequate ceiling light lighten air down in that space and then I think the the last slide and I'll wrap up madam chair is just a madam ambassador if you can go to the last slide that one might actually pop up is it's not a photo well that didn't either so I'm striking out here but it's just a map that shows I direct the butter support I know that the mayor's office will talk about the process madam chair but I would go direct support from all of our owners and renters around us so happy to go through more in detail I know it's been a long day there is zoning relief needed but all the relief requested is minimal it's there's no changes to these conditions in that space it's the same bedroom count it would be the same bedroom count in the building as it is now and all the subject work oh here you go thank you madam ambassador so it's just shows the door out in this the ceiling height in the space now if you scroll down just through the next few slides you'll just see again the existing space the the window well the existing exit from the unit which is already there in that space again the windows there are you know pretty full-size windows into the space and then the next slide should just show additional windows there and then the last slide is just that of butter support that I had mentioned so it's because I couldn't add in chair happy to answer any questions no worries and apologies and a vast anyone left again we've been having technical difficulty so any questions from the board all right hearing none may I have public testimony yes madam chair members of board call on our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services at this time the mayor's office let you defer to the judgment of this board some back our information on the community process and about here's being with bells the applicant then went on to meet with the community alliance of mission help and the mission hill neighborhood housing services the community alliance of mission hill send over a lot of support and we've also received a lot of support we're unaware of any concerns at this time by the community I with that we defer to the board thank you let's go anyone else nobody do have a raise hand here how may I thank them it's a norqueous of you can you state your name and address for the record please good morning madam chair members of the board my name is Anthony bias on the liaison to mission hill for a counselor box the proposal before the board seeks to add much needed home ownership opportunities on the hill the proponent is a pillar of the community and I perceive overwhelming support from the community alliance of mission hill for these reasons counselor Bob urges the board to approve the proposal at night house watch street thank you kind of chair members of the board pass on city council live make a plery council for regent support and martin can you say to name an address for the record once im muted thank you my name is martin by and on and the president of the community alliance of mission hill the local civic association of residents our organization supports the proposal for nine Oswald street the mission hill residents cast this at the usual three consecutive meetings and then thank you for the opportunity council marvies office I see good afternoon Tom me and your friend councilor merby's office with the support of the community and the district councilor councilor merby would also like to go on the record and support thank you thank you technically that's everyone madam chair thank you thank you with that may and bpd's recommendation is approval with proviso that plans be submitted to bpd for designer review for any exterior changes with that may i have a motion motion to approve with the proviso that plans are submitted to the bpd for designer view with except for exterior changes do i have a second exactly thank you miss by brazza yes yes thank you mr shepard yes mr valencia yes miss we will yes mr. disparage yes mr. Collins mr. Collins you're muted all right about that yes the chair also votes just motion carries good luck thank you very much but next case b o a one three seven one one zero one located two car out of street applicant Steve Stewart is the president or the team of us is the applicant for two carl out street on because it might be stew here um still i'm going to make your panelists and once you become a panelist you'll be able to unmute yourself so that you can call it in for the record thank you good afternoon my name is Steven Stewart and i am representing two carl out street we are doing um constructing a driveway and also co-cut this the old plan the driveway was two it wasn't long enough to to accommodate the cars and also it was two it wasn't long enough to be passed the front yard so we just didn't edit and we submitted this um plan back to our that's serving up and they extended the uh went through the driveway about 12 but point nine feet you can see there so the original length was 32.6 and they just added 12.9 feet to that so now it's about 45 and a half feet um which should be um plenty um went for the driveway requirements but uh but yeah that's essentially what we're trying to do is Mr. Domingo still on can you weigh in? yes i am part of the MEPO BDB um matter of jay per cent and members of the board since they increase the distance of 45 feet yeah it does apply so it doesn't uh result in front part and and you're satisfied for that with two two vehicles yes thank you any other questions from the board okay with with that may i have public testimony? yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board he's just a tiana from the mayor's office in neighborhood services um in a butters meeting was held on so both were abouters expressed support due to the need for parking in the area um the met with civic number 26 of 2022 where they received support from the whole board and gannet gas and odysfield betterment of association and project right ink there was a letter of support submitted um and at this moment we would like to defer judgment to the board thank you thank you quesia just got any other raise plans? pose here uh mike or i can you state your name and address for the record please my name is michael kosu i'm co-director of project writing 320 cc. i'll have a blue avenue i'm just here to verify uh and confirm that the whole board gannet gas and odysfield betterment association met with the applicant and uh they express their support along with members of the project right uh residence as well thank you and i'm no additional raise hands thank you thank you was that may i have a motion? i'm sharing a make a motion to approve we'd provide so to send to the bpda for the same review i don't think it needs to be necessary yeah there's no design review but yes make a motion to approve all right thank you we have a second second is better brazza yes mr. shaper yes mr. relencia yes mr. stemberg yes mr. collins yes the chair also votes yes motion carries thank you thank you the next two cases first we need the o a 139 8524 to address the 19 to 23 ashland street uh the applicant is ashland lc and together with that we have the o a 139 8527 the address of 25 25 to 31 are ashland street again the applicant 19 ashland lc and one here representing the team good afternoon madam chair members of the board mark lecasse well if this is lecasse law 75 rlington street in boston attorney for the applicant 19 ashland lc whose principles are ray bogus and mcayla de santis both of whom are on with us um the architect of record is jason aren't of zephyr architects um and we are pleased to present this proposal to you today which has been before this board once um and i'll explain that and has also been the subject of coming on a three-year process largely related to a component piece of the project which is shown here in the renderings as the red brick building on the left hand side of the project the original proposal um was a large building one building um if you could stand on that one slide that's sort of yeah um that had eight units and the proposal was to demolish the existing structure that is standing on this 15,000 five-minute square foot lot um we found our application for demolition delay and landmarks commission um then entertained a petition brought by some um residents of doorchester and the doorchester historical society to seek to establish some protection for this structure um taking the cue from the landmarks commission and desiring to work with them and the neighborhood to um get a project that was approval um the plans were substantially changed uh completely um a new architect was hired zephyr architects has considerable experience in history working with historic buildings and additions there too and when we next appeared before the this board in November of 2021 um the signal was definitely that some progress had been made but that we needed to do some more work with the landmarks commission so we then separately met with the landmarks staff on a number of occasions taking direction from their staff on uh the architecture for the project and then appeared before the full landmarks commission on an advisory review basis and the result was that they have submitted a um unequivocal strong that are support to this board indicating that the architect and the applicant has done a great deal of work in terms of preserving the red brick structure which is currently painted yellow and will be restored to the red there are a couple of appendages on the historic structure um which came much later and are not historic and those will be removed um to make way for the addition of what you see on the right hand side of the rendering which is a new structure and on the front portion of the parcel there will be three units one in the historic building and then two townhouses in the portion that you see on the right behind this structure because it's a 15,500 square foot lot there will be a second building constructed and again this isn't in response to working with the community and working with landmarks commission to reduce the massing by dividing it into two buildings in the back there will be four separate townhouses so this project now represents the total of seven townhouses all approximately uh two thousand square feet all three bedrooms all containing garage parking tucked in and away from the public view because that was one of the initial design considerations that was a rub um so all of those things have been taken into account and next slide please so a little bit of background on the existing conditions um because of the age of the house it's not traditionally facing ashland street in other words the front door of the house is on the right hand side of the slide sort of facing the backyard of the abutting property um orientation of the existing historic structure was very important to the landmarks commission so that orientation remains and the portion next slide please that is being added on to the front structure is essentially the left hand side of that image with the rear building in the back with the four additional units um shaded is the driveway with the existing curb cut on ashland street which will serve as the entry point for each of the garages for the townhouses in the front building and the four townhouses in the back building during our ISD permit review process um there were issues raised by our plans examiner concerning the width of the driveway and access for fire vehicles because of the existence of the second building on the same lot and we did work closely with the fire department and tomodontal at ISD um to get permission from the fire department to go ahead and move forward and that is so noted on our updated refusal letter next slide you just scroll through these these are showing the existing conditions of the historic property with the appendages that are being demolished next slide next slide get to the so here are some elevations that show lower left hand corner that would be the existing historic house which is currently painted yellow that is going to be preserved and then the other elevations show portions of the appendages namely where that zigzag stairway is in the upper right hand corner um and those are the portions of the property that are being removed so that the historic structure can stand alone and then have the townhouses added onto it next slide in this site plan showing the significant grade change on the property going down the hill actually and sweeping and the upper right hand side of the page next slide some more elevations next slide um again this just shows the orientation of the structures and the preservation of the significant amount of open space and green space with respect to the front of the property that was a lot of the contribution and suggestions from the landmarks commission on orienting the front doors and the front yards of each of the property so that they would read and feel like single family homes with separate entrances next slide this shows the configuration of the existing historic structure which is the lower right hand box the two townhouses to be added to the front the four townhouses to be added to the back and you can see how the garages and drive way for each of the townhouses is tucked away and out of sight of the important historic view shed along Ashland street coming from either direction which was one of the considerations that uh landmark asked the architect to focus a lot of his attention on next slide again each of the units is self-contained two thousand square feet three bedroom units so satisfying a need for family sized units in this neighborhood and although it isn't a one F sub district there are predominance of properties that are in the immediate vicinity on Elm Street behind that contain four to six units there's a large historic property across the street um and about our for whom we have support um that did a similar thing preserve the existing large historic house and behind the house there are three buildings with six condominium units they're in next slide just more floor plans on the upper levels next slide these are the elevations the preservation of the historic building which is on the left-hand side of the lower elevation and the right-hand side in the middle just showing that the restoration of the historic structure will also include returning certain window openings to the historic original my clients have done a lot of work in connection with the architect on finding as much history about this property as possible and doing everything to restore it as as an essential and sort of central feature of this development is the preservation of that that building next slide thank you market's been a long day is there anything else you want us to focus on? I didn't want to be in the mood now but I just wanted to make our case and since it's been a four years I absolutely understand that a lot a lot has preceded you and my clients have done a diligent effort of working with the commission and in fact I've never received a letter of support directly from the landmarks commission so we were quite pleased on that front as well but thank you and we're happy to answer any questions that my clients are here as well absolutely any questions or concerns about the plans? Madam Chair the plans are pretty adequate adequate I would say that the project is complimentary to the existing structure so I commend for that you know long kind of design process to get it right the only kind of destruction I see really is in the site planning in regards to connecting a kind of pathway directly to the to the to the structure behind I would have liked to see a little bit more of a connection and I just think that it just shows how much asphalt parking or surface parking it's being included but I think if we were to you know like reduce a little bit of that kind of we're we're surface parking and connect more with the walkway that secondary structure would have even more access to the open space to a shared open space that's the only kind of comment that I that I would that I said that I have the project thank you any other comments or questions from the board okay and just to note again Mr. Hampton is not here his recommendation is approval with proviso that plans be submitted to bpda for designer view increase side yard setback to reduce previous pavement with that may I have public testimony? Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board my name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office and neighborhood services the upglant has completed their community process our office is out three of better meetings regarding this project with most recent one being in April 2021 additionally we additionally we received multiple letters of support for the project from a better is an understand applicants have done continuous outreach within the community the local civic association first met over the project in September 2020 with the initial plans being opposed but I believe the group is currently inactive so they were not able to comment on the newest revisions at this time we'd like to defer to the board's judgment thank you very much thank you Madam Chair members of the board Joe McGeckron City Council I bring big as office we'd like to go and recognize the board of projects thank you Alison go ahead good afternoon I'm Alison Frazier executive director of the Boston Preservation Alliance a nonprofit advocate for a store preservation located at 87 Mount Vernon Street we have met with the project team and feel that they have been responsive to our concerns and our proposing an appropriate rehabilitation of the store building with contextually sensitive new additions so we're happy to support this project thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you to the board for our solid and city council live Michael flurry council to your record and support all right uh ashton amen I just heard the record please hi um ashton straight uh I live at 29 mill street which is directly abutting um I'll keep my comments brief because my partner who also lives here um and is the owner of the property um also has a lot to say um we are strongly opposed to this uh plan in particular because of the violation of the setbacks so the proposed four units of townhouses that sit in the back of the property are less than three feet from our back yard so they sit almost directly on the property line um and in the most recent plans that we saw they actually have balconies um and so we feel like having three stories of townhouses looking directly onto our backyard um would be a pretty serious you know violation of our privacy in our um you know sort of ability to enjoy our backyard and not feel like we're providing a view for other people thank you thank you uh stacey Anderson hi this is stacey Anderson our stacey to me I live at 38 mill street so I live at the near the same prominent intersection of mill street national and I'm strongly opposed uh to this proposal because of the excessive density of changing a two family to seven townhouses and the insufficient side and rear setbacks which have already been mentioned to be three feet on the side okay thank you um Liz Liz or minor uh madam chair members of the board of mine up risk of the sent in the carpenters union we like the ground reverence support of this project thanks yes hi um my name's Liz Gakowitz I live at 31 mill street uh right around the corner from this property my family has been in this neighborhood so 60 plus years I have had many conversations with Mr. Bogos related to the neighborhood as well as the project I feel he has done his due diligence and trying to meet the concerns of the neighborhood and I fully support this project thank you and Jeff lastly hi yes my name is Jeff Gore I am the owner of 29 mill street it's the corner of mill and ashland so the two of the property lines are adjacent to our land and as Ashton said we oppose the current proposed plans because of the rear setback the 50 feet required rear setback going to less than three feet we feel is excessive and indeed three feet is not enough to provide any buffering and I would maybe just add that if they are less than three feet in their property line then it clearly means that we would not be able to do something similar on our land and even though we are we have no plans I think we do yeah we do think that there should be some symmetry in the sense that anything that is done on our neighbors land should in principle be possible for us to do otherwise it means that they are really using our property as their backyard and they will have opinions about what we thank you your your testimony is also in the record by email any other issues this hands thank you any any other questions from the board before we take a vote and here you none may I have a motion I would like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisels one is that the rear to have a minimum rear setback of five feet the second proviso is for the site planning with BPD's under you the site planning to ensure a connection of a pathway well that was that we're today and there it is to pay attention to the surface ground surface material you have to have a second there comes miss better baraza yes mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes mr. We will miss we will yes mr. Semberg yes mr. Collins yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you very much two more cases thank you so much thank you the next case is BOA 123 6.084 address of 45 note and out applicant applicant microcaustile and any of those team members present yes yes mr. Secretary attorney Ryan Spitz Adams and Marancy with the business address of 168 H street first floors Boston with me today is the applicant Miguel Castillo as as red into record this proposal is here for a rediscussion due to administrative deferrals coming to the year end so again we're here seeking to combine three parcels amounting to approximately 10,800 square feet to erect a new three-story building with 11 dwelling units 14 off-street parking spaces in the rear of the property in a bike storage unit for approximately 12 bikes two of those units will be offered as affordable units to comply with the mayor's initiative affordable housing is the equivalent of 20% rather than what is what the regulation requires at 13. All units will be owner occupied further the proposal will restore parking to the neighborhood as there is currently two existing curb cuts one will be used for the parking scheme as sent you reach towards the neighborhood this proposal is located within a two F five thousand sub-district the building footprint is approximately 3956 square feet which is approximately 40% block coverage units will range approximately from 475 square feet all the way to 1660 square feet if you could turn it to page six of the plans please first lower consist of one studio two one bedrooms and two one bedroom with balconies on the corner units there also you'll notice that there's a trashy area there's a bike storage and then you can see that there's carved out for a little carve out in the back right hand corner for three covered parking spaces as well two units two of those units will be the affordable ones one is the studio and one is the one bedroom in the in the front of the building on the left hand side next page please second floor will consist of three one bedrooms with study and one two bedroom with study again the corner units will have balconies as well next page there are four will consist of two one bedrooms with study and one three bedroom with study both will have balconies corner units again we'll have those balconies as well the proposed four area ratio is 1.0 what is compliant is a 0.5 by the code building height is actually compliant for the feet but the stories is excessive we're proposing three stories and 2.5 is what is required a gable design was provided for the roof to to better fit than a flat root in the character of the neighborhood front yard what we're proposing is is 10 feet we have the front the frontage alignment which we're a little bit short but the body of the building is actually 5 feet property line parking will be eight full size at eight foot by six by 20 and six compact sizes seven feet by 18 feet and again the parking scheme is a little bit more elaborated on page six of the drawings and then lastly the building will be equipped with an elevator for excessive excess ability so at this point I'm going to open it up for any questions from the board thank you mr. Spirits students to clarify have you made any changes to the you know unit count or height or anything else since you last presented or was it just an administrative deferral yes madam chair there were many many changes so the very first hearing I believe was back in June 2022 and we went through an extensive community process we you know we we made changes to the dimension of the massing of the building we reduced the setbacks we complied with parking and then we provided more more affordability components of the neighborhood thank you mr. Berraza any questions on the plans and if you're 11 units how many are affordable comply with the minimum 20% and their identifies I know you'd like to specifically identify those units would be on the ground floor first floor which would be the studio unit and then the one bedroom on in the front of the building on the left hand side and you're keeping 14 parking spaces as of now yes because if we if we reduce the parking spaces that's going to provide another violation on the zoning what it was required here by parking would be 13.5 parking spaces so then if if we did reduce them here today again we'd have to you know re-arriotize and go to a whole another process at this point time that was one of the biggest issues when discussing with with some of the a budding residents was parking because they're the original proposal we weren't compliant with parking we had less parking but then we revised the plans to allocate for more parking to be compliant I think I don't have further questions thank you any other questions from the board I just want to then try if I could just clarify is so the two affordable units are on the same level and that is the ground level yes okay I'm not sure if anyone can answer this but is there any provision that affordable units being no less desirable location than other units or I don't know if Tom can answer that you know I'm as we know affordable units can go affordable units can go anywhere as long as they're accessible okay yeah as we roll this is Tom generally the rule they mean that there'd be no less desirable in the other units themselves there's no requirement that they necessarily be in any particular part of the building okay thank you and Mr. Spitz I'm sorry I'm looking at the BPD recommendation and it mentions nine units and nine parking and here so that BPD recommendation was made many many months ago or well eight months ago right so you actually increase the number of units and increase the number of parking yes but we will reduce it yes we increase the parking we actually reduce the the massing of the building as well and run bedroom counts substantially so originally we were at approximately I think we won bedrooms and that's what the neighborhood dislike was the the bedroom count as well so we figured we use it and then again as well as the parking that's why we kind of had a ratio of one parking space per bedroom here yeah thank you any other questions from the board okay man public testimony well good afternoon madam chair members of the board Eric James the mayor's office of neighborhood services the applicant for 45 mil industry held two previous butters meeting they met with the Dorsharsi Unified Neighborhood Association in May of 2022 and the association voted to oppose the project citing parking concerns initially and they are still citing parking concerns even with the 14 parking spaces as the building will contain 11 units they believe too many apartments bedrooms and people on the leave that'll just congestion street so as of now we have two letters of support in one letter of opposition and at this time the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter thank you thank you councilor morals office good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is iamia we know from the council morale the council would like to go on record in opposition of 45 mil to now mr. demiko yes i met a chair lady of members of the board Bob demiko btb unless i miss something i only see one curb yet they mentioned two curb cuts i'd like to request a clarification on that and this project is approved i strongly oppose 14 parking spaces i know parking is an issue but btb regulations have brought you to one of the change and we would support our one space per unit with an increase in our open space five problem you say and you would support one one parking space per unit that is correct okay and then i i think you had said mr. spits that you removed the curb cut you should clarify that for mr. demiko yes mr mr. demiko so this is three parcels and one one parcel i'm just let me just i'm going to scroll through my drawings here just to see exactly with the site plan it's to show you it's on page six on page five five of thirteen i actually don't sorry no it would be page six yep so so you could see is on the left hand side of the property on page six where the car is actually entering that is one existing curb cut and then there is right where it says remove and relocate in the middle a existing curb cut that there is the one that's going to be restored i don't see it so do we have the drawings on page six um it's here you scroll over on the on the fine line right next to the car on the right hand side scroll over to the middle where it's is brown floor plants directly up there is where that curb cut is being filled in right there it's not reflecting on the plans number one number two you have two spaces right at the ends of the the project which makes no sense you can see the other see two four six seven eight nine i can see i can see twelve spaces but the two on the ends make no sense okay so those i mean they do have the um eight foot six you know wide by by twenty feet long parking requirements again you know we were just trying to satisfy the concerns of the neighborhood of providing more parking that wouldn't be impacted by any of the other parking cars itself no i understand that but it's maneuverability the lump of church not the sides great i understand any other testimony sorry we'll start to go back to the parking in a minute any other testimony madam she had members of the board also i see the council a lot of microplarity council it to go and recommend support thank you thank you okay so you've heard some feedback around parking mr. spits can you let us know your thoughts on that probably but i mean if we were going to reduce the parking again you know i can just allude to going through an extensive community process that we were at this for well approximately about two years in total of a process and if we were to reduce the actual parking um you know at at this point again that's going to create another violation it would go through another uh you know community process and it happened to come back to the board again um on that on that instance um you know i'm not quite sure if we could work out some sort of um parking um scheme you know after if if in fact this is approved without reducing it it's some uh submit uh from ISO that uh the BTT reviewer i don't think you have to go through the community process okay um can you confirm that i'm out of chair uh yeah if there's going to be a new zoning violation you know you know the extent of the board hasn't i understand the board is contemplating now that it might want to grant that relief but that relief is not in front of the board to grant that model so uh if you know i as t's going to review a new plan set that doesn't have sufficient parking wherever this one does and they're probably going to refuse it again and send it back to the zoning board uh for another year to that really madam chair can you please read um bpda's recommendation i can but i think as mr. spits pointed out and as um mr. hampton points out they only do one recommendation and this was from June June of 2022 uh so it predates what i would say when they have less when they have lesser units and yes less units but i think more bedrooms is that right mr. spits yeah yeah the the mass量 of the board was reduced the bedroom the density of the building with the bedrooms reduced the room okay so at that time at that time the recommendation was denial without prejudice density excessive density excessive the power should consider a project more closely aligned with in the spirit of existing zoning so from June of 2022 then also i just like to highlight again as well too is is the building footprint is a price of square feet which is which is about 40 percent uh walk coverage as well thank you any other questions from the board may i have a motion madam chair i'd like to um before a motion to deny without prejudice um you know these are three parcels and on a sub district zoning sub district of two f five thousand i can see you know six would be in alignment with with the zoning um even if we were to do three on each parcel that gives nine i find the proposal of 11 units and to cover it with parking um 14 parking spaces is excessive so i would recommend um to reduce the project in regards to density oh third second madam chair i'll second that i think there's just more work to be done on the parking and circulation and maneuverability throughout the site uh green and chair uh yes was i too late or did i miss did we have any um opposition from a brothers or anything like that uh i all the testimony i believe just uh you you announced right so may i not chair may i interject um we did um uh many of letters in support from the actual immediate direct of butters i actually grieve forwarded them yesterday because this has been a long time since we've we've revisited this conversation just to ensure that uh the board was in receipt of all those the letters of support as well yeah i think we heard all of the public testimony mr. shepherd okay okay so i i heard a motion that was seconded uh miss bed of raza yes mr. shepherd yes mr. valencia yes means we know yes i'd also like to add if this is back for us in the future to see the in the affordable units more evenly distributed throughout the project thank you mr. stembridge yes yes mr. columns yes the chair also votes yes motion carries great thank you thank you all right last case mr. stembridge in case anyone had noticed uh the final case of the day b o a one three seven four seven zero two with an address of one ten r waiting road uh yes we have to get all those blue sentias or someone on the team is present yes good evening that's my own can you yes good evening all my and uh four uh one ten the euro my name is a lot of the sentias and unfortunately mr um i'm sorry we just want to quickly hear what you're proposing yes um i'm sorry mr. umbosella and designer group he couldn't be here today he's traveling so i guess i have to do it myself um i upload um the new this time the hit it um so he made the right measuring um what effects that because it was missing some measuring so he's expected um they broke down let me see you don't have a new one is this not what what's this is what no i have no i upload the one um i guess was the Monday when he sent it to me so i uploaded um last week so um i would defer to that i'm invested around that um i'm sorry i'm sorry go ahead go ahead um i was just i was just going to um state that what i have in front of me is the is a 30 page package and um and i think the best drawings are probably the site plan uh which is a which is the first sheet and it's a pretty straightforward project that proposes a pre-fab for a garage so right here correct that's really what we need to see thank you yes it is actually uh fabric acreage um that's what they send me so that's what i upload is auto have anything else i know what you guys have this is right this seems pretty straightforward so i'll just ask if any any any members of the board have any questions hearing none i'll take public testimony good afternoon madam chair members of the board this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services i hosted in a butters meeting uh for this proposal on October 11 of 2022 and at the a butters meeting all of the a butters that were present were in support of this project um we've received no letters of opposition or support um outside of that a butters meeting um so at this time we wish to defer judgment to the board thank you thank you any other testimony no raised hands one chair all right was that made out motion motion for approval yeah second back in the comments miss better bravo yes mr. shepherd yes mr. valencia yes miss we well yes mr. stemberg yes mr. Collins yeah all right the chair votes yes ocean carries thank you all for putting up with all these technical difficulties today i think we did great thank you very much thank you very much have a great day thank you thank you bye bye