 Good evening. All right. The city of Boston. Should I can you pull up the. Pertural hearing statement. All right. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of. Appeals hearing for April 6, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order in order to ensure this hearing of the board. Is open to the public members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the notices page of the city's website. Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged. To keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require for that reason. The first to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. If you have any questions, please read them in the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. All right, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening Madam Chair. Good evening, Ms. Betta Baraza. Good evening Madam Chair. Good evening. All right, I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you Madam Chair. The first hearing we have this evening is for case BOA 142 1688 with the address being 1066 Bennington Street. Is the applicant or their representative present? Yes, sir. Oh, there you go. Go ahead. Can you say to name an address for the record? My name is Raul Saint Clemente. 1066 Bennington Street, apartment one in East Boston, Massachusetts. And I'm Catherine Saint Clemente, daughter of Raul Saint Clemente, who also sits with translating. Thank you. Can you briefly walk us through your proposal, please? So the proposal is to legitimize two additional parking spots. There would be no additional construction. My father currently has one parking spot that I believe was granted around 2004. And after that job, the work, you know, the cement work that was placed in all from 2004. And so these had a space for additional parking, which has been utilized until most recently we were made aware by the city. And so we're now looking to legitimize the two additional spots. And so is he he has been using those spots? That is correct. We were informed by the city at one point that we couldn't park outside because that was considered. It was considered a driveway. So we've been receiving sort of mixed messages from the city throughout the years. At one point, you know, we had reached out to Salomon Tina, who informed my dad that it'd be enough for him to just put two posts to parking post. So that's what we had for many years. And then at one point, I think we were told that we had to bring the post down and just put the cement curves in. And then, you know, we've been ticketed if we're parking outside because it's considered a driveway. We were most recently ticketed for using it as a driveway and not parking outside. So with with all of the mixed messages that we're receiving, we're sort of just looking to finalize and hopefully just legitimize the two spots and whether. We just need to post that say no parking or if we do need to place the curves either or we're happy to do. Can you confirm where is the curb cut? Where are they accessing the curb cut is currently on the left and right hand side of the car that has p1. Okay. And so we are utilizing the spots p2 and p3 and we're just looking to maybe extend if if we prefer for a curb cut, then extend the curb cut on the left hand or I guess the way you're looking at it. Yes, on the left hand side of p1 we'd extend it all the way through p3. Is there currently street parking? What are you what is the situation on street parking space for one vehicle only within the area of p2 and p3. Okay. Ms. Bedbraza any questions on the on the drawings? Yes, Madam Chair. So on the images that you submitted, I only see one curb cut, which is mostly along p1 you just mentioned that there is off street parking. In front of p2 and p3, the spaces that you you have no in terms of the cars. Yes, that is correct. There is. So basically if you were if we were to approve this request, you would be removing to parking spaces along the street. There's only space for one vehicle there. Right. So if we were to approve to additional parking space and the curb, you would be removing one public parking spaces on a street. So that is correct. Okay. So no, I don't have any further questions. Can you please read on the record BPD is recommendation and BPD. Mr. Stembridge, you have a recommendation from BPD. I don't have one. The recommendation, excuse me from Bob and Miko or BT, Boston Transportation Department is he suggested denial is exactly words were I'm sorry, I'm so late, but I requested the parking plan for ten years. So the parking plan for ten 66, bending to the street does not work. Okay. And so for the record BPD is recommendation is also denial curb cut is excessive. It also mentions that plans do not show dimensions of the proposed spaces. So we also address, you know, we did get in a butter comment about water runoff, you know drainage issues with your existing driveway. Yeah, that's most likely our neighbors to the right of us on Bennington street, so that would be 1064 Bennington street. You know, we were actually really good friends and we would go to church together. Unfortunately, the relationship has, has been broken and that relationship has brought upon issues where they are just, you know, just kind of fighting us with with anything really. And so I was made aware by the previous public hearing that we had and I know no, no, no neighbor attended the zoom virtual event. They should did ask was it's not Stephanie Natalia from the city did ask if if we were aware of any neighbors who would oppose and we had mentioned the 1064 neighbors. And so essentially it seems that she has an issue that she believes that the, the construction of the parking lot is causing water to run into her basement. However, I think it was back in 2017, 2018 where the entire Bennington street was affected from that heavy rain that spring or summer where any home from 1064 all the way down to 10 50 or 10 30, they were all affected by the flooding. So some, some of us had some water in our basement, others further down on Bennington street had flooding into the first floor. So it just, you know, it just seems that I don't think that the parking lot has, you know, is affecting in terms of, you know, we're all getting rain water and there was just a lot of rain that season where, you know, the entire street was affected by it. I don't think our parking lot is necessarily affecting hers as she also has two partners. Thank you. But may we have public testimony. I, yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office, the board services, send the mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment this board. Our office held in a butter is meeting for this proposal on February 15th. I know a butter is were in attendance. We did later receive a letter of opposition from the director butter, which I believe the board was referencing earlier, where the butter asserts that they've been subjected to flooding due to the water runoff coming off of the paved area with that we defer to the board. We don't have any other further concerns or letters at this time. Thanks, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial due to the potential of removing one public. Park and space along Ashley Ave. Thank you. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabaraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Can I, can we add anything? The vote has already been taken. Thank you. I think it's a good question. Is there any way that we can appeal this further or? I guess I understand that the. It seems that. If I'm hearing it correct, the denial is because of removing one street parking spot, but I think, you know, my only thought is we'd be gaining two additional parking spots. So, I know that you're moving two additional vehicles from Ashley Street. So I know that you'd be removing. Mr. Yeah, they can. This is heavier. They can get in touch with our office, but they'll be said notice in the decision and they can go from there. Okay. Thank you. Next case. Before we go to the next case, are there any deferrals or withdrawals? Anyone may want to put forth. Hearing none, then we will go to the next case, which is BOA. One three five two one eight eight. Address being 88 Chelsea Street is the applicant or their representative president. I think I saw Julio earlier. There we go. Hi there. We have to know everyone. My name is Julio AC. I'm one of the owners. You knew owners take this business. I'm here to remove the provisional license to get it right together. The good one. Thank you. Any any work being done? I'm sorry. Any work being done or just just a removal of the proviso? No, we are. We almost have all licenses to. Any questions from any questions from the board? Hearing none. Public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, new member of the mayor's office neighborhood services. It's time the mayor is off. To defer to the judgment of this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns involving this proposal from the community. Without deferred to the board. Thank you. I know it's things at the moment, Madam Chair. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'd like to move forward and motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is bedbaraza. Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Julio, you're all set. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next we'll have. Case B.O.A. 1424488. I'm going to move forward. I'm going to move forward. I'm going to move forward. I'm going to move forward. With the address of 36 high street. Is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. Thank you very much. Cameron. On behalf of the Herbert who are on this as well. And I'd ask that. Isamu. Conda. Be promoted as a panelist. I believe that he is. On the call. Okay. I'm going to make a panelist now. If you could just pull that up when it pops up. Thanks. So great. So I'll just briefly introduce the Herbert's. The Herbert's. I have lived in Boston since 1984. They have children in the area. And they are renovating this beautiful home, which you see before you. Over by the monument in Charlestown. Throughout the process of their renovation. They determined that they needed to add. Another. Support. You know the roof rafters. And then the roof rafters. And then the roof rafters. And then the roof rafters. And then a hatch. Was going to be installed for the purposes of accessing the mechanicals along the roof. As they further developed their plan. They realized that somewhere outdoor space for themselves and their family. In conjunction with the character of the neighborhood would be best. Around this area, there's about 20 or so. Roof decks and similar hatches, etc. But they decided to not go with a head house to limit the roof. So that being said, if you want to go to the slide with the roof and the slide, East and move can tell you a little bit more about it. I have a good evening. So it's a. Almost a flat roof. It's a low slope roof on top of a man's heart. So what you see is a patch, which is an access hatch to get up to that rooftop. And then a fairly straightforward roof deck, which we've pushed all the way. Towards the view side, but away from high street. As well as pulling it away from the side street, cord of street. So we did this to minimize the. The visibility from street level. And so we've, we've aimed to keep it up. And so we've, we've aimed to keep everything is sort of low. In fact, visually, with an open railing. Everything is sort of at a minimum height that it could be, while still providing accessible access to the deck. So what you see is sort of a. I think what our proposals showing is sort of the lowest. And so we've seen a lot of the most. Most sort of. Least. Least visible proposal. And one thing I wanted to add is that the neighbor does have a full sized head house and roof deck on the other side of this townhouse, which is not appear in the slides. And that the herberts went through a robust effort to speak with their butters neighbors. They stopped people on the street. So they were all affected by that. And so this is an example of the. When we were, we had no butters meeting. And we've had no opposition to this project we've had support from various neighbors. And they're excited about the opportunity to have some open space up on there. They're roof deck. Thank you. Any questions from the board. No questions. Well, that may have public testimony. Madam chair members of the board Sean bring with the mayor's optional neighborhood services. and a button is being held on February 2nd. It was well attended. This office has received three letters of support in none in opposition. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that it undergoes BPD design review and to explore the idea of a setback, the dimensions of a roof to minimize visibility from the street. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we will have a B.O.A. 139 9338. Thank you. Thank you. Next we will have a B.O.A. 139 9338. With the address of 9 Sat Phil Street is the applicant or their representative president. Good evening. This is Eric Zacherson. I am the owner and architect for the project. Great. Can you just briefly walk us through? Yes. It's an existing single family home, which we purchased about a year ago and moved into about a year ago. And would like to expand to become a two family three story property. It's in a three F three thousand district. The project has one variance. And that's partly that's because it is the existing home is about four feet from the right side yard. And we may be the choice to extend the third floor straight up. So the portion of the third floor is in the side yard setback. But otherwise it provides two parking spaces as required. And meets the open space that they are requirements and all of their step back and dimensional requirements. Thank you. Any questions on the plans? Mr. Berraza. No questions in the plan. Any other questions? Hearing none. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Bream with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time we would like to defer our judgment to the board. And about his meeting was held on February 2nd. This office hasn't received any letters in support or opposition. Thank you. Any other. I'm not going to raise hand them out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Okay. Next we have case B.O.A. We have case B.O.A. 1 4 0 8 5 8 0. The address being 24 plus and 3. Is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. Joseph Luna, Luna design group. How to damperous Massachusetts. We are the project architect representing our client. Heather and Grant Ewing. The project in question involved the installation. The project is a project that we are going to do. We are going to do the removal first of a single dormer along the front side facing the class and street. And then adding to book it. Book and dormers on centered over the second floor windows above and then infield with a shed roof. This is being done because on the third floor, it's a relatively small footprint. But the big concern is the lack of headroom inside the master bedroom. The maids are trying to maximize the useable space within the third floor. So the proposal is to do two similar constructions constructed dormers. To what was the single one that's being removed and also on the adjacent townhouse. Again center those over the second floor windows in the same plane as the adjacent and then fill that with the shed dormer in a nan-tucket-style dormer. Okay, thank you. Any questions on the plans? No questions. Okay, with that may have public testimony. Manchin, members of the board, Sean Green with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. And the board's meeting was held on February 2nd. The office received three letters of support that the board should have access to and know what is of opposition. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Will that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review, paying a special attention for the dormant to fit its context. May I have a second? Second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betta-Barraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. How do we do? Next we have case BOA 1435497. The address being 11, who is the clerk's square? The applicant or the representative? Present. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Dennis Quilty. I'm an attorney representing the property owners. Mr. Mrs. Robert Bass for the renovation of this spectacular single family home. Much of the work here has been done with the approval of the Beacon Hill Architectural Commission for exterior window renovations and simple work such as that. The matter before us tonight requires zoning relief for the infill of the second floor of an existing class atrium at the rear, choosing at the rear of the building, which drops down into a garden, which is private to the residents. So the application is to ask for roughly an eight by eight infill at that second level, which basically extends living space at that level of the house. And that is the entirely of the application. We did meet with the Beacon Hill Civic Association's Owing and Licensing Committee, and we received a letter of non-opposition from the Beacon Hill Civic Association. We had a very well attended and positive butters meeting at the site. And we have letters of support from probably half dozen or so of butters and people in and around the property and are unaware of any objections as we arrive before you this evening. The architect Monica Polly is with us tonight and her team if there are any questions that the board might have. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Quilty. Any questions from the board? No questions. Okay, hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, hello Madam Chair, members of the board, Maggie Van Schoer from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, we would like to defer to the judgment of the board. This applicant had our office hosted in the butters meeting through this applicant on February 22nd, which was well attended. We did not hear any concerns at that meeting. And this applicant also met with the Beacon Hill Civic Association, which did issue a letter of non-opposition as stated with this again, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. I have no raised things at the moment, Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a provisional that the plans be submitted to the Boston Landmarks Commission for Design Review. Thank you, may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bedabraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we'll have case B-O-A, 139, 4771. We had just being 10,000 to 10,000 for Tremont Street. Is the applicant or their representative president? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Alice E. Montia, and I am the new owner. And I would like to remove the provisor of the previous restaurant, Goodeats, to open up my new restaurant, Bakalau Kitchenette. Any questions from the board? Here, here, none may have public testimony. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor's Office deferred the judgment of this board on a button on. No water is being held, but we had the applicant notify residents and the butters. We're on a way of any concerns at this time. Thank you. Thank you. No raised hands at the moment, Madam Chair. Thank you. We have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to go ahead. Madam Chair, motion for approval. Madam Chair, second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ben Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck with your new establishment. Thank you. Next, we have a B081434938 address being nine. When Lock Road is the applicant for the representative present? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Barry representing the owner of this particular site, the business address of 1156 Dorchester Ave, Boston, Mass 02125. Their protective record on this particular project is 686 architects. Representing them is Christopher Drew principal manager of that particular architectural firm. What we're presenting as far as a proposal here tonight is an addition on the Western portion of the existing structure on the site. The sole violation here is an FAR violation. In this one F5,000 neighborhood of Dorchester, the FAR that is prescribed is 0.5 with the addition of the FAR calculation is 0.6. I would just like to highlight that the part of the proposal doesn't include an extension of some living space into the basement that does not include any bedrooms. It is strictly just a family room and then for mechanical storage. And then the additional height that's proposed is just to create storage in the attic of the existing structure after the renovations that are proposed if they were to be approved. If there are any particular questions related to the proposal, plans, or what is the violation, please let us know. Great. I answered my question. Any other question from the board? Yeah, I have a question. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling a newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office held the butter's meeting on February 15th, where one butter was an attendance and voiced their support for this proposal. The applicant then went on to meet the Senior Grove Civic Association, which voted unanimously to support this proposal. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have additional way of saying it. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. I second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better, Baraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Chase B.O.A. 140-9011. The address being 26 Greenview Avenue. Is the applicant or their representative president? Yes. Hello. This is Jessica Wilson. Great. Can you put the address into the record and just walk us through your proposal? Sure. And we also have our architect, Christopher Brown, who may be speaking as well. My husband and I are the homeowners of 26 Greenview. We have lived in JP for more than a decade and actually rented on Greenview for a number of years before this home became available. And we were able to purchase it. We also have a young daughter. And it's a 100-year-old home. So we're doing a number of things to update it. And specifically, that includes an extension on the back, a dormer on the roof to change the stairwell, which is currently located in a bedroom. So we're making that stairwell more accessible, which will necessitate a dormer. And then also creating a bike path on the side of the home because my husband uses his bike every day to get to work. Great. Thank you. Any questions on the plans? Madam Chair, I would like to know if the condenser can be out of sight. Can I be located at the rear? Hi, this is Chris Brown Architect for the project. The condenser location is subject to the distance of the refrigerant line. And ideally, there really is not a lot of opportunity to squeeze it in anywhere. One option if there's a concern for visible or noise requirements may be to screen it and try to knock down noise in that way. Is that a possibility? Yes. Great. No further questions. Thank you. Madam Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New England, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office is like to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office held the butters being on December 5, where the applicant understandably received support and then went on to meet with the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council's Zoning Subcommittee, which also expressed support for this proposal as well. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Do you have a raised hand here, Fred? One's unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record? Yeah, hi. I'm sorry. My name is Fred Walnut. At 26 Greenview Avenue. So we're the butter immediately, if you're looking at the house to the left. We're in opposition to this. Should I continue and say why? Yes. Sorry about that. So we were on the December 5 of butters meeting and had a lot of questions about how close the side of the, if you're looking at the house, it's the left side of the house, how close that is to our house. And it's about seven feet right now. And it's kind of a dank dark passage as you go down it. And also we talked about the condenser. And at that meeting, my understanding was going to either be left where it is or put into the back. We haven't heard anything different except right now on the AC condenser. But our concern is the with the height being added with the extension on the back of the house. It's going to pretty much cut off all of our sunlight. And it'll be extremely close to our house. There's two bedrooms that are, again, seven feet apart right now. And when you look at that drawing, the initial rendering, I guess it's called, it was the whole house drawing. If you look in it that, our house would be to the right of that picture. So it's rather misleading because that shows a wide open field. But again, you could walk down there with both your hands, arms extended and touch the houses. So that's what we're worried about. The mold, that side of the house is always moldy and messy. We talked to a realtor about this. And they said it would definitely, nothing against those guys fixing that house up at all. But not to the detriment of our property value going down. Or not enough light in the air in the back and all that. Thank you, sir. I have a follow-up question to the applicant. Yes, exactly. My understanding is pretty much the perimeter or the architect. The perimeter of the house is pretty much staying the same. It's just you're just increasing square footage at the rear. Is that correct? That's correct. OK, so you're not really building to the side yard any further than what's existing. No, the side and front perimeter footprint remains the same. Yes, it's just a rear. Projecting outward in the rear. And a rear. OK, for the question, thank you. Thank you. Thanks. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with a proposal to screen the condenser. OK, any design review? NBPD design review. Correct. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better, Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1415260 addressing the Wallenford Road and the applicants for their representative. The president. Yes, excuse me, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, members of the board, Dennis Quilty Attorney, representing the property owner of the Wallenford Road and a Brook, who's with us this evening. This is a renovation which resulted from a fire in May of 2021, which destroyed the entire interior of the building, mostly due to water damage. The building, although, excuse me, indicated for zoning as a single, has been a two family in practice, the two family home for many, many years. These people, my clients, bought it in 2006. It was an existing two unit building at that time. It's always been taxed as a two unit building. They simply are seeking to replace the two units with the same number of bedrooms and same living space that existed previously. No exterior work is being done, except to replace windows, which were damaged in the fire. Again, we went through a very healthy community process. We had a meeting with the Brighton-Alston Improvement Association, which resulted in a letter of non-opposition, as well as a... I don't have my notes. I'm pretty sure that... That's okay, Mr. Newman or someone will comment on that. Thank you. And in a butter's meeting as well. So in any event we are here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? No questions. No. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office, like to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office held a butter's meeting where no butter is opted to attend. The applicant went on to meet with the Civic Association that expressed no concerns with his proposal. But that would defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. But Civic would be the right and also to improve an association. Thank you. I have no other hands at the moment, Madam Chair. Thank you. Does that have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisional that the plans be submitted to the Urban Dean Architectural Conservation District Commission within the Boston Lamarps Commission. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Betapuraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-138-245-3. With the address of 226 Harvard Avenue, is the applicant or the representative present? I thank you, Madam Chair, and through you to the board. So you guys want to make sure you guys can all hear me? Yes, sir. Oh, perfect. My name is Chase Wolfman. I'm the director of development for plan of fitness. Plan of fitness has enjoyed a relationship in many neighborhoods throughout Boston where we exist. We're happy to be bringing a new gym to the greater Austin neighborhood. We are requesting approval of both conditional use for a gym in a community commercial zone and an extension of hours of operation on weeknights. Though we do not require any dimensional relief, as we are taking possession of an existing building and making no changes to that building, I'm happy to display a siphon and elevation of how the building will look. I think you can do that possibly here. Is this the entire building where the urban alphidrs is or a portion? It's actually exactly where the urban alphidrs. So that tenant is going out and we're taking over their space exactly. The extension of weekday hours ties directly to our ethos as a company that everybody deserves the opportunity to work out and create a healthy lifestyle for themselves, regardless of their social economic status or the unique hours they might work. We know that there are many in the Austin Brighton community that work in the medical field, sometimes taking shifts that last 13 hours and on making it difficult for them to find time to leave work and work on their own health and fitness goals. The same can be said of residents that work more than one job. Our low fees and our extended hours make our gyms more inclusive for all people of the community. We are pleased with the reception we've received from the Austin Civic Association when we presented our proposal and thank them for taking the time to learn about our plans. We are also pleased to have the support of district council that are bringing the request before you for the gym operating 24 hours a day. We're going to be amending that actually. We've decided to amend those hours in response to noise concern by butters to the following hours. Those hours are going to be Monday through Friday, 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and we hope that the board looks favorably upon our request. Thank you. You addressed the main question, which was the support seemed to center around those hours. So thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, no questions. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office held in a butters meeting where they have answered all questions from the butters and went on to the All-State Civic Association. The ACA initially was concerned with the thought of it being 24-7, but with the new proposed hours as the applicant mentioned, the ACA wrote a letter of support which the board should have access to. There was also another butter as well who was in support of those new hours. With that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm no raised hand, Madam Chair. Thanks. No worries. Thank you. With that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, motion to approve. Do we feel that we need to restate those hours just to confirm? We can certainly do that. Thank you. So motion to approve? We're approved with hours to be amended as stated Monday to Friday, 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday, 7 to 7. Thank you. May I have a second? I second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betapuraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case B or rediscussion of case B.O.A. 1 4 3 4 8 1 1 with the address of 18 to 20 Meridian Street. Is the applicant or their representative present? She is on. I send a request to unmute you. Continue. You should see a panelist designation pop up on your screen. Do you? Are you still on? I think you're on twice. Hold on to me. Once unmuted, can you state your name and address me? Okay. There we go. Join. Oh, you're unmuted. Can you unmute yourself? You can't hear you if you're talking. She was on. Yeah. She's on twice. If you're on two different devices, can you unmute yourself? Oh, okay. So, we're about to. Okay. Can you state your name? Yep. There you go. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Can you state your name and address for the record and just let us know what you're proposing? Okay. My name is Antonia Noguera. I represent a NGC for this project made by the architect Eric Saritzon, the context before. So, we are asking for remove the previews in ground to the petition not only the decision was in the 03, 30, 2021. So, for the new name, it's going to be Pomona Cafe. Thank you. Any questions from the board? So, the only change will be name change? Yes. Basically the name is going to be the concept of everything is going to be the same. Are you making any renovations? Yes. We have to because the place is empty. Okay. They didn't build the project. So, they draw the project. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Oh, yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time and we are aware actually that a number of relatives have expressed support for this proposal and excitement for the store to open up. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no rights to hand. Excellent. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisor that plans under GOPBPDA design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. I really appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. I'm Ms. Betabraza and Jessica and Javier. Have a good night. Good night. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good night. Have a good night. Good night. Thank you.