 This is 2021. 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. Members with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Aiken reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Aiken. Here. Mr. Collins. Mr. Aiken. Mr. Aiken. Okay. Thank you. First five o'clock hearing is case B.O.A. 1706519. Address of one to three center plaza. Applicant is one cano. So one here or is anyone else here to present the case? Is anyone was raised hand? No, I see one cano if you're here, please Miguel Perez. I think you are the 10th section. I'm sending to you an invitation, please accept that. Miguel, are you presenting for this project? Yes, sir. Okay. I'm one. Great. Can you state your name and address with a record and then please let us know what you're here for? Okay. My name is one cano. I'm a tattoo artist six years ago. And I'm going to be present hopefully on solace allows to use three center plaza. That's why I'm here. So thank you for welcoming. What is I'm sorry, what is the facility now and what are you are you doing any changes to the interior? There is any changes is just basically the certificate of occupancy. So this is still you used to be. Stallone, you're salon. And now it's going to be. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, really. Thank you. Sorry, not from the board members hearing none. May I have public testimony? Madam chairman, this is the board. My name is David Jones representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Regarding one to three center plaza are office will defer the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including a distribution of a subcommittee fire on June 7th, 2025. And we received no feedback from any constituents. Additionally, the proposal was discussed with the local civic association, the work district neighborhood council. While the proposal was not within their catchment area, they expressed support for the proposal in which the applicant luck luck in their business. At this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thanks to everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Any other raised hand sases? No, we don't have any additional comments. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Madam second. Second. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries to the. In the next case is BOA 171 4041 with an address of 633 to 633 a. It's the same address. The same address. The same address. And the same address. The same address. If you have any other questions. On the street. Applicant is Kevin. Is an applicant here. And if so, can you please state your name and address for the record? Hi, Kevin's little. And can you say the address for the record? Is 633 charm on street. Okay. And what do you have to present? So we're just doing the senate outfit. Seven. Is six-minute building is different than what we wanted to be. The first floor I can't really remember what it's zoned out for, but we can turn it into a ... other than that, we're just here for a change of occupancy. Okay, any questions from the board? Hello Madam Chair, members and board. My name is Eva Jones representing the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We're going to 633 to 633 A.T. and we're going to 633 A.T. Our office differs to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted including a subcommittee fire on June 30th, 2025. We received no feedback from any constituents. The pilot block neighborhood association refused the proposal and expressed support regarding the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you Eva. Any other raised hands? No, there are no additional comments. Would that may have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Yeah, second. Thank you, David. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins, your mute. Your mute, Mr. Collins. All right, drop my clicker there. Yes. OK. Thank you. Thank you. The chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a great day. Hey, the next case is BOA 1731934. Address of 67 Appleton Street. Appleton is Madeline Branson. Looks like Madeline's here. If you could give your name read your name and address into the record, please. Yep. Hi. My name is Madeline Brason. And the address is for 67 Appleton Street. My presentation is a little bit longer than the others so far. So I'm just going to read off of my notes for the sake of time and to keep things moving. A quick introduction to myself. I am a proud South and resident and active member of the community serving as a board member on both Ringel Park and Peter's Park, as well as a member of the Ellis Neighborhood Association in South End Business Alliance. Our candy shop employees over 20 women, many of whom live work or attend school in the area. And we absolutely adore the South End and are grateful for the opportunity to bring even more joy and family fun to the area. Thanks to the early success of our candy shop, which I forgot to mention, I'm the owner of Madeline's Candy Shop at 47 Clarence Street. So thanks to the early success of that candy shop largely due to the amazing support of the South End community. We have since been able to expand directly next door to 67 Appleton Street that is currently being used for candy storage and prep space. In response to numerous requests from the community, we are excited to hopefully continue the process of offering a soft serve window to the neighborhood. So quickly, I'll walk through the scope of the work and then also address some of the feedback points that have been brought up since the butter's meeting. For context, 67 Appleton is already permitted as a commercial space. Our health permit for the ice cream window is conditionally approved pending the ZBA hearing. And the design for the window has been conditionally accepted by the South End landmark design committee and we received majority support at our butter's meeting. In terms of the scope of work, it is fairly minimal as we'll only be replacing a portion of the existing window in order to make it into a sliding window. There'll be no change to the facade or interior of the building and there'll be no interference with the sidewalk in any way. In terms of the operational workflow, the soft serve window will technically operate from 67 Appleton Street but out of the Clarence in the street side window and it will be walk up only with no entry into 67 Appleton. The hours of operation will be the same as the candy shop and the ice cream itself will only be two flavors and a twist in order to limit line formation on the sidewalk and to hopefully help streamline the process and expedite ordering. And yeah, that is all that I have. Great, thank you. Well, you got an outpouring of support on through the public comments. So I hope not to hear from all of them live because we could definitely see the support. So maybe we can take public comment from a few folks and if there happens to be anyone in opposition, we'd like to hear that because again, we've got tons of support letters. So we're clear on that. There we are, you're a good neighbor in a good business. So with that, I'll open it up to public comment. Hello, Madam Chairman. This is Born. My name is Eva Jones representing the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services for Gardenic 67 Appleton Street. Our office differs from the board's judgment. The community process was conducted including on a butter's meeting held on 7, 9, 25, which was heavily attended by the South End community. Feedback included both support and opposition. Concerns focused on increased crowding on the public way, safety at the crosswalk directly in front of the proposal and trash from the ice cream window affecting both the street and the shared alley, particularly regarding trash storage in the shared back alley and the added concern of sticky ice cream waste. One resident even noted a preference for hard ice cream oversoft serve. So they still express support for Madeline's business. Other supporters highlighted the positive addition to the neighborhood, the joy of children in the area and the positive impact for a small business has made in the neighborhood with a butter's expressing support for the business. The applicant has made significant efforts to work with neighbors including coordinating with nearby restaurants on trash management and connecting with ISD and the South End liaison to access or to assess the alley conditions. They have also been working with the small business department to engage relevant city departments and commit to ongoing collaboration on street safety following approval. The additionally, the applicant has engaged with the Ellis Neighborhood Association to address concerns and improve communication with constituents, which has led the association to express support and request the board's approval. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time in consideration. Thank you. I think the worst one person guy, Gracie, I'm not sure if you are a speaker in this project. Yeah, hi. I live next door. My house is actually in the left hand side of the photographs that Madeline has proposed. I'm an architect I've lived in the South End for 25 years and live next door to this house for the last 15 years. Madeline runs a great business. She's been a wonderful addition to our neighborhood and she's providing a great service in live and district. And my wife and I are very excited about her prospects of opening the ice cream window and we're here to support and hopefully see this happen. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you for the comments in the chat. Any other raised hands? No additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Absolutely. Go ahead David. I'll make a motion to approve. And have a second. Yes, second. Mr. Eakin. Yes, meets the conditionally used permit for sure. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Sounds like you'll bring a lot of joy. Thank you. The next case is BOA 1732098 with an address of 218 to 220 old colony avenue. The applicant is a Chloe Manning. Do we have Chloe or someone else here? Please announce yourself and read your name and address another record. Yes, thank you. Mr. Eakin, good afternoon. Mr. Collins, Mr. Eakin. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. A Chloe Manning is an employee at Debtchew and Company. The project architects. I represent the owner of the business going into this site, Haley Hoffman. I also represent the owner of the building, Singming Chan. This is a building with 32 dwelling units, ground floor commercial space. It was approved by this board in July of 2020. At the time of approval, the commercial unit on the ground floor was identified as generic commercial space. The building is essentially a completed construction and is undergoing commencement of occupancy. Haley Hoffman is looking to open at Pilates Studio in the 2000 square foot commercial unit. She has another location elsewhere in South Boston with a growing clientele and can use the extra space afforded by opening a second location. The site of this building is within the area or a plan in South Boston to a gesture avenue. Because of that, it has not been rezoned. So it is currently zoned M1 Restricted Manufacturing, which dates back to the 1964 base code. The reason why I mentioned this is because the reason why the zone of refusal letter issued is because Pilates Studio is not included in the definition of service uses under the applicable table B, which applies to the old zoning districts under the base code. Table A has been updated. These are tables to section eight, regulation of uses of the zoning code. Table A has been updated under table A Fitness Center, Jim, which includes a Pilates Studio, isn't allowed use. But again, because this is the 1964 base code M1 zoning, it is undefined, which therefore makes it a forbidden use because anything that's not defined in the code is regarded by ISD is forbidden. I think that's the only relief that's required. And I believe the mayor's office can speak as community process. But I would represent that there's no opposition to this. And we believe it's inappropriate use to the location in the building. Thank you. Questions from the board? Eric Nadman, Public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the ONS community process our office oversaw distribution of an informational flyer to each abutting parcel in the 300 foot radius, which solicited no comments to our office. The Andrew Square Civic Association is the active civic group in this area and the mayor in support of this application. With that background, our office defers to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Second. Thank you, Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. In the next case, case BOA 1725220 with an address of 24 Edge Hill Street, the applicant at Roselmo Pesote, no, the applicant or someone else is here can announce their name and address it in the record, please. Good afternoon. I'm the homeowner at 24 Edge Hill Street, Christopher Pardo, Roselmo Pesote is my contractor and a friend who's done a bunch of construction in our neighborhood in Jamaica Plain. As well on this is our architect, Deacon Marble, who has prepared these plans and made the submission for us. Really all we're doing is putting a dormer on the third floor of our house in JP. We're very active in the community and we love our house and we found out the good news that we were having an unexpected new baby. We need a place for that baby to live. So unexpectedly, the baby, we thought we were gonna be done with our construction, but the baby is now here, month early. So not only are we not done with our construction, but we are still in the ZBA process, which is really, really fun. So anyway, that's the only thing we're doing to our house. We have a variety of not-performing uses because of the fact that our house is 125 years old. So when they ran it through, they were like, wow, nothing on your house is conforming, but that's Jamaica Plain 125 years ago. So technically, because we're moving the side walls on the third floor to the edge of the house, as would be standard with a dormer update, it adds a small amount of square footage, technically to the house, but that's really the only reason that we have to be here. So, happy to answer any questions you might have. Well, first, congratulations. I have no questions. Any questions from the board? Hearing that. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The 10 Mayor's Office is to defer to the judgment of this board, some back information in the community process. We had hosted a butters meeting on June 9th. It was likely attended, but those who were in attendance were supportive of this proposal, citing the character of their neighbor. We also received a letter and support as well from one of those residents who attended. They went on to meet with the JPMC, which was supportive of this proposal. We're unaware of any concerns and without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Laura from Councilor Plains Office. I don't wanna speak on this case. I don't know if this is okay, but I had a problem mugging in. He just wants to go on record and support of the previous cases with the address of 67 Appleton Street and 218 to 20, oh, Colin, EF. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sorry for the time. Okay. Thank you. Will that may I have a motion? A motion to approve. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. The next case is BOA 1720605 with an address of 13 Marmian Street. Applicant is Derek Bloom. Derek Bloom, yes. Please announce yourself and your address with the record, please. Are you Derek Bloom from Bloom Architecture? Here with Nate and Julie Hall, the homeowners to present proposed work at 13 Marmian and Jamaica Plain. Yeah, good place to start. So these are existing photos. Top right is from Marmian Street, the from facade. Moving to the right, there's a rear yard shed. Next to that is a driveway. And then bottom left is from the backyard looking back at the house, which is where all the work, the majority of the work is taking place. And then the bottom right is a diagonal view across the neighbors driveway. So the proposed project is to remove part of the front of the house. There's an old Bay window that's inside of an enclosed former porch. We're going to re expose that part of the front facade to reduce the mass on the front and open that up to daylight again. On the back, you can kind of see there the width is a little bit less than half of its current width in the proposed. In the back, we're taking, we're going to take down a one story, irregularly shaped, kind of formerly uninsulated room, probably also an enclosed porch and replace it with an insulated new room that's more square. And on top of it, a partial upper floor as well that we'll see there. So on this level, there's some renovation and basically replacement of that sunroom. And on the upper levels, we're going on top of that roof for expansion. So this is the demo in the proposed first floor. If we keep going, we'll see the existing proposed second floor is sitting on that roof, extending out to the back to get an extra bathroom on this floor. And that's really the second floor. And then on the third floor, dormers and the back sort of half or a little bit more than half of the current roof line, one to get a stair up there that's legal into code and to get an additional bedroom and bath. So that's the expanded plans. And then we have some elevations. This is just before and after roofs. So we're not exceeding the current height to the ridge line. These are all either lower roofs or in the case of the dormer, they're the same peak as the existing house. So here we have the before and after front views, the top row on the left is the section of the front and closed porch. We are removing and on the right is the resulting visual when you reveal the old bay. The bottom row is the rear, taking down the one-story addition and doing these sort of stepped additions off the back and the dormers. And then the next page, the two side views. So the top row is from the driveway showing really the same thing, the stepped roofs and the dormer and the opposite side, which is their driveway, not the numerous driveway. And that's again showing the changes to the front, the dormer and the rear additions on the lower right of that elevation. Sure if there's anything else, sections, these are just to show the height, essentially not changing and the relative heights of the parts of the building. Questions from the board? No. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is obviously going to defer to the judge from this board. Some background information in the community process. O and S at hosting the butters being in July 7th. There were no concerns raised by neighbors in that meeting. The applicant also met with the JPMC, which was supportive of this proposal. None of their members had any concerns as well. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Chair, no additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Madam second. Second. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Last case of the evening, case BOA 168-4116, address of 51 Mosley Street. Is the applicant here to announce their name and address? Good afternoon. Can everyone hear me OK? Yes. My name is Echo. My legal name is Ywandee Yu. I'm the property owner of 51 Mosley Street and doorchester. I purchased the home from its previous owner in February 2020. And 51 Mosley Street made me a first-time homeowner. I had worked with a contractor to extend living space into the basement as well as a raised dormer on the third floor. This house remains a two-family unit, two-family dwelling. And basically, in September 2021, all the work was finished. And I moved in later that year. But in May 2024, Boston ISD delivered a violation notice to my house citing the lack of a proper permit. And I believe my contractor, cutting corners, pulled a short form permit when a long form permit was called for based on the scope of the project. So I'm here today presenting the work that has been finished in September 2021 and asking for the proper due process to get it approved, hopefully. But yeah, that's the sort of the story there. Thank you, Mayor. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair, members and board by names of the Jones or Son Teng, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We're going to 51 Mosley Street. Our office is first with board judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted including the distribution of a subcommittee fire on March 20, 2025 or 2025. We received no feedback from any constituents. The Columbia Sapentill Civic Association reviewed the proposal in June and July of this year and voted to support the proposal. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services differs from the board's judgements. Madam, thank you everybody for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, no additional comments? OK, with that, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. No second. Second. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Have a great night. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. See you next time. Some of you.