 you you you you good morning the city of Boston zoning board for P.O. hearing for June 7th, 2022 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year the new law allows the board to to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event, sorry via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout and must administratively unmooted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the meeting as panelists. And they will appear alongside, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments, and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals will lift closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive a request from the host. Again, for those of you on the telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. Or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Please remember to also lower your hand once you've made your comment. So let me take a quick roll call of members. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Adam Chape. Morning, Mr. Erleck. 可以 ire. Mr. Champetton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Ligures. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Good morning, Ms. Fanado. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, and on behalf of the BTDA, Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, and on behalf of the BTDA, Mr. Dimaiko. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Fortune, it's yours. Madam Chair, the first daughter of business is the approval of the hearing minutes of May 10th of 2022. We need a motion. Motion to approve. Becca. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, we may have some technical difficulties on video for myself right now, but you're sure you can hear me, okay? Yeah, we can hear you. Okay. I'm gonna call the first extension, calling B.O.A. 896-779-779-779, eight, Rochester Avenue. Name and address for the record, please. Moody Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is George Marante. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston, representing the property owner, John Lee. Thank you, Mr. Marante. We got in 779-779-8, Rochester, app. The board originally granted this relief on November 1st of 2019, would have expired on November 1st of 2021, but COVID-tolling applies to this relief, with tolling the relief, expired on February 6th of 2023. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that the relief remains valid until that day. Madam Chair, I'll propose a motion to confirm that relief remains valid with any an applicable tolling through February 6th, 2023. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Following the next case for extension, calling DOA-898-1-140-Mount Hood Road, name and address for the record, please. Turn to Jared Agerman, River, Genius and Rose, 112 Water Street Boston. Thank you, Mr. Agamint. This week, I have fought a amount of Hood Road, the board originally granted this relief on March 1st of 2019, but it was appealed to this area court. The court case wasn't dismissed, and with the litigation tolling, this relief would have expired on June 27th of 2021. The board did grant an extension until June 27th of 2022. However, a COVID tolling also applies to this relief, so that extension was not necessary. With COVID tolling, this relief remains valid until October 2nd of 2022. I recommended the board confirm for the record that the relief remains valid until that day. The applicant now also requires an extension until June 27th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension that determines that the appropriate under the circumstances, noting that this would be the applicant's first necessary extension. Chair, I'm ocean to confirm the relief remains valid within the at all applicable tolling throughout October 2nd of 2022. Further moved that additional extension be granted through June 27th of 2023, which of course will include any at all in the applicable tolling. I'll second that motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next two cases, calling B-O-A-903-635-235-Laden Street. There's a companion case B-O-A-903-636-237-Laden Street. Name and address of the record please. I'm wearing out of chair members of the board, Richard Lailin-Sundee half, Attorney Lerminsky Tino, covering the request for extension of the 235-237-Laden Street. Thank you, Mr. Lens. Regarding 235-237-Laden Street, the board granted relief to these companion cases on June 14th of 2019, and it granted its first extension of relief until June 14th of 2022. However, COVID tolling applies to this relief so the extension was unnecessary. With tolling this relief remains valid until September 19th of 2022, I recommend that the board perform for the record that the relief would be valid until that day. The applicant now also requests an extension in June 14th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension if the requirements that the appropriate under the circumstances, noting that this would be the applicant's first necessary extension. I'm Chair, I hereby move to confirm that relief remains valid with any and all applicable tolling through September 19th of 2022. I further move to confirm an additional extension through June 14th 2023, which of course will include any and all applicable tolling. I'll second that motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the last case for extension, calling the OAS687-5351-RED Street, name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lens, 245 Sumner Street, East Fonds, and on behalf of the position. Thank you, Mr. Lens. Regarding the COVID tolling applied to this board's first extension of this relief, with tolling that first extension, remained valid until October 5th of 2021. However, the board granted an extension on June 30th of 2021, until June 30th of 2022, that covered the tolling period. That extension was unnecessary. The applicant now requests an additional one-year extension. I recommend that the board grant the relief for this extension. If it determines that it's appropriate under the circumstances, keeping it at six months, of June 30th 2023, this will be the applicant's only second necessary extension. Any other motion, please? I'm sure I'll make a motion to confirm that any and all relief, including all applicable tolling, remains valid until June 30th 2022. I further move that an additional extension is granted with relief valid now through June 30th 2023, which of course will include any and all applicable tolling. A second at vote. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, Mr. Lens. This is your second legitimate extension. So hopefully we'll see some action on the project. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. All your next case, the board final, auditor, upon case BOA 105 5809 167 Lexington Street. Name an address to the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Maddacle, with Drago and Cascano, with the business address of 11th Beacon Street, and here in Boston on behalf of 167 Lexington Street. You are here this morning, the board final, auditor, on 167 Lexington. This case was previously approved back on July 27th of 2021, which included approvals to change the occupancy to a three family and renovate the structure. Part of that approval included a third floor dormer. That dormer extends over a bedroom, kitchen, and bathroom. So what we're seeking here this morning is to further extend that dormer about nine feet, a little bit closer to the street, which would include allowing headspace over the existing stairwell. Right now, the existing stairwell has been existence for some time to the third floor, but due to current codes, it doesn't have the proper egress and ingress head height clearance. So we're seeking just to mash the existing slope and roof pitch of the current dormer and just allow for that proper egress. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are good, very straightforward, just extending an existing dormer. No questions? Mr. Hampton from the BPDA. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm not aware of any of the board final, auditor issues going on, so I just want to make clear that this would be done to comply with current codes, correct, and it's not just an extension. Correct. Gage, so may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Second, the motion provided, there's no code relief. May I just ask, Mr. Robinson, do we want continued BPDA design review? Yes, I guess I would ask for that, Madam Chair. Yes, yes. Agreed? BPDA design review. I know code relief is there, and there's a second. Second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, good luck. Thank you very much. Following the next case, the board final, auditor, following BOA, 1-4-3458, 3371 to 3375 Washington Street. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Brian Goldson, one of the owners of New Atlantic Development, Business address of 236 Huntington Ave. This project is a 39-unit senior 100% affordable project that was granted relief last February. Subsequently to that, a rebutter to the South that filed suit challenging that zoning decision. Through a mediation process, we have arrived at a settlement that's been signed by all parties. That settlement included minor modifications to the footprint of the building, pulling the building back from the Abutters property line. And we're before the board today just to propose that modification to you and confirm compliance. So tell us what it's moving from and what the new destination is and if it's side or rear. It was a side lot property line. It actually did not require any side yard setback. And the previous design was built up to the property line. The six inches back to throw intense and purposes built up to the side lot line. Again, no side setback was required. But through the mediation process, we agreed to pull the building back five feet from that side yard property line. And that's the modification to the new design. We fall under all the previously granted relief. The only modification is the FAR is slightly reduced from the previous submission. May I have a motion, please? Sorry, Mr. Robinson, everything good on the plans? Everything's generally good. I just have one question for the proponent. The previous design had sort of an inset to break up the massing along Washington. Is that remaining or is it now a straight face the whole way back? We had a habitable courtyard that went all the way down to the ground floor initially. And instead, a minor inset on the upper floors on two through five just to allow some additional windows there. So there is some relief, it's not as deep as it was before, but that was the accommodation we had to make when we pulled the building back five feet. But it did also allow us to add windows on that elevation. Okay, thank you. No further questions on the plans? May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I assume with BPA design reviews is an article 80 project. Is there a second? Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set, good luck. Thank you. On the last case, the board final, I'll have it up on the DOA 937-921-1449-1453. High-tox habit. Name and address for the record. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moranti. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent the property owner, David Higgins. Madam Chair, members, the board on March 23, 2021 approved this application for zoning relief, which included a variance for insufficient to off-street parking. The petition is submitted in the board approved a site plan to pick 11 off-street parking spaces for 11 units. After board approval of BVDA in the exercise of its design review authority, reduce the number of parking spaces from 11 to 8. This went to the plan's examiner at the Inspectorial Service Department who recognizes that no new zoning violation is created owing to the previous granted variance for insufficient off-street parking. But one of this matter to be reviewed by the board acting in its board final, I would a capacity to approve the new site plan to pick 8 parking spaces. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Look good in terms of the proposed layout. Parking is screened and offered at no questions on the proposal. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA review. A big, big, big review is completed. Sorry, we already had to be generated this. Yeah, as a, it was our recommendation to do this. So all good, then approve. Make a motion to approve. Is there a second? I'm sorry, I didn't like this. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. It's the G-Cod calling case B-O-A-1316265-137 West Newton Stream. This is an interior renovation and a new fire protection assistant and new groundwater system. Violates about 32 section 4 G-Cod. May I address the director please? Someone on from 137 West Newton Stream. Hi, sorry. Nicholas Highland here with, I'm home in some construction business address 519 Albany Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Thank you. Anybody here to speak on G-Cod? Thank you, Madam Chair. Christian Summoner Lee, Boston groundwater Trust. We have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have moved on as well. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So you're all set good luck. And thank you, Christian. Thank you. Madam Chair. You, Madam Chair. We're going to call the 930 hearings for any deferrals or withdrawals. If you can give me the address first please. So this is 930 cases for the deferrals, poll with garlic. During none of the first case, find case B-O-A-127-268-135-14 Washington Stream. This is a change of art from a daycare Senate to retail in two dwelling units to deflect a two-story addition with proof deck for two dwelling units above the existing building. To propose two off-street parking with easement access. Violation.505-619-3 dwelling units. Vid.Uth. Article 55. Section 20. The 40-year ratio is excessive. Article 55. Section 40. Archbishop. I need some sufficient. May I have a second to the record please? Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. And I'm representing the owner, Omer Hecht, who is also here at the meeting. Charles, what's being proposed? 3514 Washington is an existing one-story masonry building. And my client has recently renovated the first floor which had been long vacant for his business. And we are seeking permission to add two stories on the above this existing structure to provide two apartments. They would be each unit would be approximately 1,300 square feet and would have two bedrooms and two and a half baths. And there would be a 340 square foot roof deck for each unit to provide some exterior space. And it's been designed to work well with the community. And we didn't receive very good response from the community hearings and have submitted letters of support as well. Now, Mr. Burke, let's just walk through this. This is an local industrial zone. Tell us why this is compatible to that district. We are maintaining the commercial use on the ground floor. And it's a very traditional and successful approach to have residences of the commercial space. So this is a local industrial. Tell us if there are any other residential uses in this block. Next story is a residential use directly and I can store it to us to the south. And then there are three other units in this particular row of buildings. And they are all one story at the present time. But certainly the other neighbors are interested in doing something similar to this. OK. And tell us about how parking is proposed to work? The first drawing does show the site plan. There is access from the north end of the building that provides parking at the rear there. And you can see the two spots that are indicated on the plan. And are those spots for the residential or the commercial use? They would. The owner is probably going to give those to the residential use, yes. And what is the commercial use? It's an analog photography. So they take care of camera sales and maintenance and service for the traditional photograph of photography. OK. And then tell us about the roof deck? How they access? They would be accessed through a daylighter hatch. So it's a low profile hatch. It's only 30 inches above the roof deck. And also brings a natural light into the space below, which is very good. And they would have a regular stair up to that hatch and then step on to the deck. Each deck would be separated from the other by a privacy screen. OK. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are generally good. I think no real issues on the proposal. I guess I did have a question about the rest of the block. It sort of seems like one of the future four. So is this owned? These are individual condos on the ground floor. Is that? Yeah, they're individual ownership. Yes, they're separate proposals. Got it. OK. And then the residential egress access, is that through the rear or is it from to the front? I only see a single door. This would be a fully sprinkler, and it would be a single exit type of occupancy. But they're exiting out the front on a washroom. That is correct, yes. OK. So the retail and the residential, they share an entry. Right. We're not changing that. That still be a single door on the street level. Yes. OK. No other questions for me on the project. Any questions from the board? Yes. Anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I guess the morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Tiffany Cavayero here with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And the butters meeting was facilitated by our office by Fungina 18, which was very lightly attended with little to zero neighborhood reservations about this proposal. This proposal also received support from the Stonyburg neighborhood association along with the Jamaica Plain neighborhood Council's zoning subcommittee. At this time, the mayor's office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters of support as well. Madam Chair, I have no waste. Yes. Thank you. Mayor Jeff, did you bid the BPD air recommendations on this? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you very much. Jeff Hantley, BPD air. We recommended approval with the design review. Most of you probably know this stretch of Washington is right across the street from English, right down the street from Toils, which is not going to be residential. This property actually backs up to a residential district. So we're on record and going support with design review. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA designer review. I think it'd be great to look at its relationship to the addition to the base retail. It looks a little bit like a hat sitting on top right now, but I think there can be a couple things that can be done to make it feel more integrated to the base. Really good recommendation. Is there a second? So, I have all those in favor? All right, no. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Following the next case, calling BLA1321921720, William T. Morrissey Boulevard. This is erecting new four-storey buildings with 112,600 square feet. We use our automobile dealership to include showroom service-based indoor parking between 222 vehicles, office storage, exterior parking for 171 vehicles, the violation is Article 65, section 15, automobile dealership with accessory repair garage, indoor vehicle storage, and offices in additional use in the CCC sub-descript, Article 65, section 16, insufficient rail yards, and Article 65, section 16, excessive building height on the dam and address for the record. Ball, Sorano, 21-mograd highway, Queen's Mass, representing her chambers companies. So, tell us in detail what you're proposing to do here? What we've done is, about three years ago, we moved the prior Honda dealership from Kamol Vav in Austin to this location. We occupied the former JB Byride or Western City dark site, which has been a cat dealership since around 1969. We proposed it is a tight building on a tight site, almost no drainage. We're gonna propose a state-of-the-art or sturdy building to internalize a lot of our operations with double ice speed doors coming in. We're validating taking people's skies. We've seen this first floor plan on the right, the eight cars that we can queue inside. We are enhancing, this is an oil landscape plan, but the green will show the existing landstapes about Nell. We will be enhancing the landscaping on three sides and including pocket pox, which don't show, but they're on the victory-free corner in the Morrissey, the Equip corner, with benches, pavers, lighting trees, and we will be proposing, we've proposing a 10 foot sidewalk to operate as a pedestrian and bike path, and eventually without some victory, and that will connect the proposed DCI bike pedestrian lighting that's gonna go in on Morrissey to the proposed trail extension of the deposit valley trail that we're running along the expressway. The building's been through the BCBC process, the BTA process construction. Oh, hold on a minute, please. Sorry. Yeah, McCammon, can you please back up to the first plan? Yes, thank you. Yeah, this is perfect. So we have a couple of questions. How many outdoor parking spaces are you proposing? 222. Do that 222. I'm sorry, 171 outside, 222 inside. 171 outside and 222 interior, okay? And will that exterior space be using polvius or impolvius materials? We will be a combination of the wall from trying to maximize wherever we can, where we'll be damaged by snow plows and things, the pervious materials to help us comply without the 25 in other provisions. Okay, and then will there be any car repair here or car maintenance? Yes, there'll be the usual full service car dealership, which is why we get the traditional use permit as in most, we have five dealerships on Comma, they have it when they all require traditional use permits if we do any substantial changes. So for full service, how many? For the service guy ownership, yes. Yes, how many vehicles do you anticipate at any given point? The repair will be in the vicinity of about 25. Okay, and how many staff are you anticipating? How many what? Staff? We don't have any staffers planned this time just a lift on the first floor. Okay, any staff and number of staff people? Oh, staff, yes, probably approximately 40 staff, 40 to 50 staff. And it's... And any strategy to hire from the neighborhood? Excuse me? Any strategy to hire from the neighborhood? Yes, there will be because it will be an increase in size of the dealership, and certainly we will have it outreach type of job fair with an neighborhood who coordinate that with Councilor Baker in the other community, please. Okay, and how about signage? Signage? Any free standing signs? There are. Those have been previously approved by the BDDA after this I-1, and essentially we're just replicating what had been there, nothing any higher, nothing besides, I think shows up in the rendering, which has I think been submitted. And it's, we've 22 feet, 24 feet, and on the highway side, 40 feet, this is the state product, two solid sheds between us and the expressway, thereby blocking most of the disability for the signage, the sign on the free board side. But yes, there are pre-existing hiring have already been approved by the BPDDA. We move the dealership. That's right. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. You asked my question that was a little bit worried about the site planning and making sure that it was following the some of the issues associated with, I know there's water issues over there, and the more people of our experience, and so that's been answered. And so I have no other questions for the proponent. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition? And Madam Chair, morning, Joe McGatgar and City Council, Frank Baker's office, would like to go and recommend support of the project today. Okay, mine are go ahead. With morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, mine are for the service and the carpenters. I see any move on, I'm going to go and support it. Right. I have no additional waste hands at the moment. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton. The BPDDA board voted to approve this project on March 10th. It's going to be a well-welcome improvement tomorrow, so we'll have our Toyota has pretty much the same kind of structure right next to it across the way. They are going to help with the redesign and the improvement of Mars Global Environmental, as well as free port streets of the back, which is now undergoing a massive redevelopment where Phillips Hole call on the house used to be so we're in support of this with design review. Okay, and on the signage, I don't remember the signage coming to us, but has it in fact been approved by this board? Yes. I don't believe the signage would come to you because usually signs come straight to us for approval through our own design. Okay, so it has, okay. So given that information, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve BPDDA design review. I'll give that here. All those in favor? I like any opposed? Motion carries. I see you're all set to go. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Thank you, Moe. Calling the next case, calling BLA1320693386 Ashmont Street. This is a change of arc from two units, through three units by sub-dividing unit B, from one unit into two units and adding a red deck, the violation of Article 65 Section 8. The applicant proposes to change the use from a two family to a three family, an Article 65 Section 9, side yard and sufficient. They have an address for the racket please. Is there anybody on for 386 Ashmont Street? I have a hand raised, David. I knew you had for Ashmont Street. Yes, I am, can you hear me? Go ahead, yep. We decide to hand with. I'll wait a second. When I made your panelists on mute, you can just mute yourself again. Okay. Okay, good. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board Members. I'm David Blan Dino. I am the homeowner at 386 Ashmont Street in Dorchester. We are proposing to change occupancy from a two unit, existing two unit into a three unit, and adding a red porch on the back. So tell us how this is going to happen. Where is the third unit proposed to happen? So the third unit already Florida exists, we're changing a bedroom into a kitchen. We are changing a living room on the second floor into a bedroom. It's going to go from a single four bedroom unit into two bedroom units. Okay. We've had full approval from the association. So what I need for you to tell us and put on the record is the unit size of each of the units. So each unit will be around 1300 square feet each. Okay. And each will be two bedrooms. Two bedrooms with one and a half bathrooms each. Okay, 1300 square feet and tell us about that, Dad. So the red, the third floor will just be added on top of the existing first two floor deck. So there's already four on two floor deck existing and we're just going to add a third floor deck on top of four means of egress. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. It is very straightforward. All interior work generally except for the rear egress there. Seems pretty straightforward. No, no real questions for me on the proposal. And the floor is ceiling height walks on the third floor? It appears to work. There is, sorry, it's eight feet clear, yes. And there's, and just to confirm there's no, there's nothing in the basement in terms of living. Okay, excellent. Any questions on the board? Yeah, so the, I mean, the only violation is the side yard setback. But is that, no, it's the other second violation is the uses forbidden because this is a two family district and he wants to translate it into a three family. Okay, but the side yard setback is existing condition, correct? Okay, right. Yeah, it is. Is anybody here to speak either in sport or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm George Wynn with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Our office hosted in the butter's meeting for this proposal on April 20th. It was met with unanimous support from the butter's as the proponent has been a wonderful neighbor and also demonstrated its necessity. The St. Mark's Area Civic Association has written the letter of support. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board. Thank you. What happened? Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council, Frank Baker's office, would like to go and reckon and support this a great family that lived there forever and we wish them well. Do they still live there? Joe? Yes. Okay. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have one letter from the St. Mark's, that's it. All right, we have no additional way of hands. May I have a motion, please? No, I'm in motion to approve. Chair, can all those in favor? All right, bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Appreciate it. Calling your next case. Calling B-O-A-128-3834 at 92-Theodore Parker Road. We're directing a new single family with one Caga Rage, the Violet Staticle 56 Section 8, it's official on it with. Notical 56 Section 8, it's official on it with, it's official on it with. Article 56 Section 8, excessive FAR. Article 56 Section 8, insufficient on size. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board of Attorney John Pogini on behalf of the applicant here today. This is, as Mr. Fortune stated, 92-Theodore Parker Road. The zoning and misnade, but it is one family, 6,000. The lot size is 5,252 square feet. The proposal is to build a single family home with garage parking. I'm just going to quickly go to the violations. Lot with per the code is 60, where it's 55 feet. Lot frontage 60, again, 55 feet. Lot size is 6,000, where it's 5,252 square feet. An FAR, a lot is 0.4, we're a little over there, 0.48. The makeup of the house is a 2,500 square foot house, four beds, 2,500 baths. What is the 2400? The square foot is 2,500 square feet. Sorry, go ahead. Yeah. And it's made up of four beds, 2,500 baths. Basement is unfinished. And, you know, this is looking at this lot compared to the other last of the neighborhood. This is totally consistent with what's existing. So, Mr. Pogini, this is a 2,500 story, so it meets the eye requirement. Yes, we do not have a hike requirement. We don't have any setback requirements, the only requirement. The only, that obviously the lots of that neighborhood are all substandard with respect to lot frontage. And as you know, a lot with them, lot frontage going hand in hand. It's just a lot size, but again, that is again consistent with most of the homes in the neighborhood. Not a chair. Okay. And I think this board is very aware that sometimes reviewing a one family proposed one family dwelling in a one family district. Maybe one of the hardest projects that we encounter over the years. And this is not a recent thing. It's going back quite a few decades. And so, let's see. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions necessary on the proposed project. I just had a question. So is 92. And is that an eight or is 88 is this being a subdivision plan or is 88? There's two separately. It's two separate lots. So this proposal is not throwing 88 into some other violations or anything else. No, it's not. Okay. I just want to make sure I understood that. It looks like it's the existing garage for 88. It's actually on 92. The government was pulled back in 1946. Okay. That was the ISD. Okay. Gotcha. All right. Thank you. And when you said there was no side yard or rear yard. Setback requirements. You mean there's there was no violations. Yes, I miss. I guess violations. Yeah, we're compliant with that. Okay. No other questions from me. Thanks. Any questions from the board? Okay. I'm going to be open this for comments. But before I do, I would like to make sure that we hear from elected officials and representatives of elected officials first. And then I will take comments from five community members. When you give your comments, let me give. Please use your time to give us new information. If you want us to know if the information has already been presented. And you're basically in support of an opposition. Just let us know. Okay. So, Ms. Ambassador, we leave it in your good hands. Great. Okay. I'll start with everyone. I send a request on new. Can you stay to name and I just want to look at please? Is it me? Can I? Can I have them just to start? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. I'm Jay Glaci from there's office neighborhood services. For the community process, two community means we're posted one on March 22nd, posted by the office neighborhood services. Another posted by the West Cross Free Neighborhood Council on April 19th. At the West Cross Free Neighborhood Council, the zoning committee voted for two in opposition of this project. We have received numerous letters both in support and opposition of this project with opposition and primarily coming from those. Directive honors in the area with concerns about excessive FAR and also parking. At this time, we deferred decision to the board. Thank you. Any other elected officials? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, the city council out loud for Michael clarity. At this particular time, believe it to the board's discretion. However, in our opinion, this project may benefit from a deferral. However, our office has received numerous emails and phone calls in opposition. We are aware that there is some support amongst some of the butters. However, at this particular point, due to the opposition to the project with the neighborhood, the council will stay with the neighborhood in opposition. And just for the board's application, I believe the majority of the opposition comes from the size of the proposal. Thank you. Okay. I don't want to give my support for the project. Please make your name and address on the record. Sure, it's I mean, Doug and I'm a 25-pair-pond road. What's for our story? Thank you. Teresa, do you want to request a new you? Can you say your name and address on the record? Oh, hi. My name is Teresa. I'm a district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district District district district district district district district district district district district district district districtushima. So thank you stage your name and address for the record please. Hi my name is Joshua Jameson. My wife and I are in the homeowners of 100th Edo parker road. We're both nurses in the city and we are raising our three young children here. We are directed by the proposed project 92 96th Edo parker road. I'd like to go on record and opposition to this project. The reason is being, it just to be clear, we're not opposed to development, but we are opposed to this development for squeezing in an oversized house with lack of hardship. They'll remove green space that serves and it's scarce and serves as the two, sorry, excuse me, they'll remove scarce green space that also serves the two family home of 96th Edo parker road. They will regensify the neighborhood and does not fit the character of the neighborhood. There are seven of butters and even more neighbors on the street who are poses project. And additionally, as you know, the West Rochbury neighborhood committee voted in opposition as well. For these reasons. Thank you. We'll get to the next bus, please. Okay. And a caller 617719, sent a request on you. Hi, caller. Nearest. Can you hear me? Yep. How are you? Can we station A9? My name is Paul Hodeman. I live at 88th Edo parker road. I'm a director about this project. I'm a director about this project. And my wife and I father and full support of this project has designed. I don't see any problem with the project and I love the design and it's going to be a great value to the neighborhood. Thank you. All right. I'm sure you want to keep going. I do have two additional ways to answer. Yeah. What is what is it? Yeah, let's just get to these two and then and close off comment. Okay. GMG. Can you state your name and address for the marketplace? Yes. The name is Gerard M. Green. And with my wife Mary Lou Amrine, we live at seven health road, which is around the corner from the football project development. Yesterday, I submitted to the board and by email. I'm going to ask you to be able to answer. I'm going to ask you to be able to answer. So can you just tell us whether you're in the quarter or opposition and what that that supporter opposition is based on? In opposition. Okay. Thank you. And that is based upon the excessive FAR. Thank you. Mr. Nassiter, the next person. Hello, Jane. Good. Can you state your name and address for the marketplace? Hello, my name is Jane Amrine. I live at 17 care pond. I'm sorry. I'm going to ask you to be able to answer. Did we just hear from a family member of yours? No, even on me today. That's okay. Okay. Jane, you're on mute if you're still talking. Okay. Are you? Sure. I have no additional reasons. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Yes. I have a motion. I have a motion. I have a motion. Given that information may have a motion. Please. Generally, we did not take comments from two members of the same family. So may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, could I just pick one quick statement? It's John. Who is this? It's John Polgini, Madam Chair. Yes, quickly. Just quickly because they brought up the directed letters. The most impacted by this proposal would be 88. Theater Pocker Road. That is the direct property next to it. And that man spoke in support of this program. What do you call it? You know, so can I have everybody muted, please? But for the board members, Miss Ambassador and Mr. Polgini, the question about Mr. Farara. I'm assuming that the projects that he did on the center street, the same projects, which I think a couple of us drive by fairly frequently. They look good, but I'm assuming that every process that he went through meets zoning code requirements. 100% Madam Chair. And he's on this call. All those, they're all zoning compliant. It went through a zoning, obviously, process in some of them. But that is a zoning compliant project. There's no height violations. There's no violations. Okay. So given that information, may I have any motion from the board? I'm going to make a motion to approve with the EPA design of new. I'll second that air. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the V.O.A.129-5685-1999-Center Street. This is a demolition of portions of an existing city. And a criminal fall. And redemising of an existing wall green space for a tenant improvement, for outpatient medical clinic, in addition to the Shea Investigio, for both tenants and rearranging the remaining wall green space, violation of Article 56, Section 15, the use is conditional. Name an ad for the record place. Anyone on for 1999-Center Street wall green? I can maybe mic. Micah, you here for this project? I am. Good morning, myself. And Andrew Crocus, if you could un. I don't. Okay. I can see him. Yep. Go ahead. Whoever's here for this project, put your name and address on the record. And tell us what's being proposed. Hi, this is Andrew Crocus with Village MD. I'll put it off. Officers are 125 South Clark and Chicago Illinois. I'm senior vice president. We're proposing installing a full service primary care clinic within the existing parameters of the pad at this location. Village MD offers full service primary care to all individuals ages 2 to 122. With regardless of insurance or sponsorship, we are a national organization across the country. And we're looking to expand into the commonwealth with our model. So before before we go any further does wall green own this lot? Or do they went it out? Michael, you can comment on this. I believe they they go on Michael. I believe this is a this is a least facility that wall greens leases from a landlord. And we will be subletting it from or leasing it from. Correct. And what are your proposed hours of operating safe as wall greens? Yes, 7 a.m. to 7 p. 9 to 5. 7 a.m. to 7 p Monday through Friday 9 to 5 Saturday and Sunday. We're staffed with full time medical doctors and doctors of osteopath. We have about 8 to 9 exam rooms and we'll be bringing 15 that approximately 15 plus jobs to this location. Okay. How was the province of Robinson plans are good. No questions on the proposal. I think it makes sense to me. I don't believe there's any elevations. So there's no exterior changes. You're proposing with this adjustment. I see there's windows. So maybe not. I just want to confirm for the board. That is correct. There are no exterior improvements associated with us. And will there be additional signage to reference your company here or our network? Yeah, there will be. So we will go on the existing if it's a monument or pylon sign. The existing panel. We will reconfigure that to include the village medical logo on it as the same with on the building to still fit within the code requirements. But the Walgreens would get a little smaller to allow for the village medical logo beyond there also. Understood. Okay. No further questions for me. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I have a few questions. I think we will have a little bit of a discussion. Obviously this is going to take up some space that is being used for other purposes currently. What will be lost in the transition? Sure. In the St. Crook, I can handle this. Essentially Walgreens will remove some of their less profitable items within their store. And other locations that is included such things as frozen pizzas or chips. Think about it is if you had tried and dentine and orbits, cinnamon gum, they'll remove one of those three. Due to the rearrangement of the store, they are able to keep about 92% of their products. The other item is that they remove smokes and smokeless tobacco products when we come in. So that frees up quite a bit of space. Okay. And then the more important question is what kind of medical services will be provided and what is sort of the limitations that you set through yourself about what you won't do? Yes, sir. So we describe ourselves as full service primary care. We, in essence, what that entails to us is that we see patients time and time again. We develop ourselves within the community, trying to hire from within the community. We've been working with the benchmark group and working with the economic development portion of the Commonwealth for the past year or so. So that's number one. Number two in terms of limitations. We generally do not see the kids below the age of two that are under the vaccination age and the immunization age. But everybody else above that we participate in the Medicaid program. We have a sliding scale for individuals that have aren't able to pay and we abide by fully by the MTALA emergency requirements. But key is is that we are offering anybody can walk up or scheduled. It's all the above across the board. We don't have radiology. We don't do imaging, but we have a limited service lab in the building. But it's essentially a standard enhanced primary care offering. So, and are you affiliated with any medical center? What do you do for referrals for specialty issues and things beyond the PCP purview? Yes, sir. And I'm biased. So I will say that the beauty of our model is that we're not beholden to any single one healthcare system. Therefore, if there's a convenient from a patient preference perspective from geography, we allow them to go where they want. But we fully inform them and help them out with selecting what's best for their budget, their personal outcomes and what the preferences are. So we're free agent in that matter and we're able to keep patient satisfaction and outcomes up quite high. And do you accept mass health? Yes, we do. Okay. And then just a final question. I mean, with Boston is the famous for its pretty robust community health center program much more than most other cities. So, you know, you know, we have a lot of people who are in the city, your sales, sales competing with that. Those operations are different. How would you compare what you want to do? No, it's a it's a valid question. We've had the similar statements and other markets that we've entered. Specifically, we've partnered with federally qualified health center and other markets. We've had a lot of issues with these from us. We try to keep the patients coming as many times as we possibly can. And we have a different financial model with the insurance companies, Medicare and Medicare Advantage. So we can sit side by side with them. We're filling a gap, we believe, in the neighborhood where we avoid access to care issues. We don't see that as a competition. We see it as a different model that we can literally sit side by side or even partner with. Thank you. So, who is the, Andrew, are you the local person or is, who is Mike, the local person? We're both not local. Yeah, both. Okay. Because there is an issue. It's been a long term issue with the site plan and the screening and buffering, et cetera, et cetera for that property. We know that it abuts a historic cemetery and there's construction that's gone on on the other side of that cemetery. And we just want to make sure that whoever it is holds the lease. And since you will be sub leasing, make sure that in fact everything as far as screening and buffering is met on this, on this site. I think Mike, Michael can take that note and ensure that there were, were with that directly. And we have Patrick Bench and Joe Rool from Benchmark on the call who are local. And we'll make sure that that is there. They're going to slap our hands appropriately at representing everything that we need to do. Joe, you're on. Yeah, if I see Joe Rool, Joe, you know, you know the neighborhood. So please make sure that they do the, they do everything they need to do to make sure that they are a stronger asset to the community. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? And I'm sharing members of the board, Jake Lacey from the mayor's office neighborhood services. This project went through two community meetings as well with ONS on March 23rd. And then with West Branch, we neighborhood council on April 19th, where the zoning committee voted 60 into the courts of the projects. We have not received any letters of opposition and at this time we did virtue of the board. Thank you. Madam, I'm going to wait for you at the moment. Let's see, Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton, VPDA. We recommended approval, but we were going to defer any design review to parks because it does a but the historic cemetery. So I'm not sure that we need to see it. Thank you. Given that information, may I have a moment, a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve, I guess. Is there a second? Second, members. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's now 10.33. I'm going to call the 10.30 cases for any deferrals or withdrawals. So if you add deferring a 10.30 case, you can give me the address first, please. Okay. Like we got to win it today. Following the next case, calling BLA 122856040 Lake Street. I just in convert a use of the property from a residential use to a community center for young adult and high cognitive autism spectrum disorder. The violation of Article 51 Section 8, community center use is conditional. Article 51 Section 8, accessory personnel, quarters, out of the bidding. And Article 51 Section 56, Austrian parking and loading. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Peter Cohansky from Goldston and Stores, 400 Atlantic Avenue in Boston. Here to represent the common room, which is the owner of the house of 40 Lake Street in Brighton. I'm joined by Tracy Stoll, who's the executive director of the common room, and by Tom Harrington, a board member, they can answer any questions. So what I'd like you to do is to go directly into describing what is being proposed and how this, this is a 1F 5000 zoning district. And tell us again how this proposal is supportive of that zoning. I'm sure absolutely, Madam Chair, let me just say a minute about the organization and the members that serve. I do think that from the, from the description, we know it's it serves adults with high cognitive autism spectrum disorder, so we get it. So please just go into the detail of the zoning and the proposal. So the idea behind the house is that it would be a home-like environment for the members of the organization. It's a place for them to hang out, to participate with peers and small group activities. And we really think actually we know that this is a residential district. It's part of what the organization was looking for to have a home-like setting for its members. And I can describe exactly the sort of uses that the organization plans to, plans to conduct. I know that ISD flight this is a community center. This is not what most folks would think of as a community center use. So I want to get really specific about, about how it's going to be used. So first of all, it's, it's not a residential facility for the common rooms members. We are asking to maintain a residential unit on the third floor, which would be for caretakers of the house to make sure that it's terrifically well cared for. The members would visit the house during the day and some evenings for small group activities. So these are groups of four to six members at a time, all young adults. So activities are things like playing cards or other games, learning to cook, watching a movie together, conducting art projects or craft projects, things like that. So on any given day, first of all, the organization, the common room would plan to be open five or six days a week. So Tuesday through Saturday is the current plan. So maybe with some activities on a Sunday. And then they would conduct small group activities in time slots of about two to four hours each. So the plan would be to have one activity slot in the morning in a morning window. So four to six participants in the late morning and into the afternoon, maybe in a window between 10 a.m. and four p.m. in the afternoon. Tell us a couple of things that will possibly impact the neighborhood. I'm assuming that the participants will be driven in a van or will they come independently? They will come independently. So these are high functioning young adults. Not many of them have driver's licenses, driver's licenses of the 25 active members. I think eight have driver's licenses and only about four say that they might drive to the house. The rest of them will arrive by public transportation or by family drop offs or in some cases, probably by who person. Okay. And then how many staff people are you anticipating on site at any given time at maximum occupancy? I should ask. Yeah. On the busiest day, I think there might be two or three staff members more likely one or two on most days. There will be only about we expect about six to ten members at any one time. There might be the four to six in a group activity and there might be another two or three young people who are doing quiet activities like reading or hobby time. Okay. So given this information about drop offs, pickups and staff, tell us how parking is proposed to work? Sure. So currently the site has parking spaces sufficient for six cars without blocking. There's room for five spaces in the back parking area. There's a driveway. Please tell us which plan we should be looking at. Sure. That's a good one to look at right there. Oh, there's one front parking space which I'll get to in a minute if that's okay. And then there's this driveway back into this back parking area. In that back parking area, there's space for five parking spaces. There's also a garage in the basement of the building. And I thought that is that the garage spaces would be dedicated to be caretakers, the one or two people living in the house. The other five spaces would be open to staff and to members if they needed it. And then there's that front. Yeah, tell us about the front yard parking. Yeah, the front parking space is an existing parking space. Our proposal is to improve that so that it could accommodate if necessary, a handicap, accessible vehicle and connect to an accessibility ramp that's being designed. And it's just to be clear that the variance for front yard parking was not to add any additional front yard parking. It was we were cited for that because we were improving that front space. But it would not be to add any additional spaces in that in that front area. Okay, so just to tell you clearly that this board generally does not approve front yard parking. Given that Lake Street is a busy street and is impacted very much by BC and the BC students, you know, we have some level of sympathy for the residents who live on Lake Street. So just to let you know about that, but the fact that you raised the handicap, the handicap access issue. How is the building being retrofitted in any proposed way from any other element on handicap? The plan submitted have it being fully meeting all accessibility guidelines. There will be a new ramp to that entrance on undying road to provide an accessible path into the building. And then bathrooms and the like and common areas are being outfitted to be fully accessible. And what was the prime use of this building? It is zoned as we know as a single family. We have reports and we don't have a whole lot of information on this that it was multiple units at different times, but it's we're treating it entirely as a single family house and that's I know what the neighborhood prefers and expects. Okay, Mr Robinson, how are the plans? I think the plans are generally fine. There seems to be there is some interior so that just to confirm the only the first floor will be made accessible. I'm just making sure I understand that the second floor will not because I don't see any reference to a lift or anything of that nature is that correct? I think that's correct. I guess my question and I guess maybe this is I should probably know this but so the this accessible parking is not off of lake. It's actually off of the side street, but we're corner lots of that's two front yards is that how we're why we're that's called you are calling up front yard parking. That's right. I as he treats both yards as a front yard on this corner line. Yep, just want to make sure everybody understood that. Yeah, to be specific, Mr Robinson, the front door is on Lake Street, so it is, you know, for all intents and purposes, front yard parking. Okay, so I guess I would like to hear Mr. Domingco just check in on the parking because I'm not sure if five cars work in that back lot, but other than that, I have no, no real questions about the proposal. Madam chair lady and members of the board Bob Domingco, Boston transportation department. I would like to request that more detail be provided for the five parking spaces proposed because I don't see any detail. It's a general area, but the actual spaces are not, you know, outlined. Secondly, the front yard parking be for handicap parking only. I think it makes sense. This is a curved out already there, but it should be in the cap parking only. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? And I'm going to right away say that I will read the beyond the representatives of the elected officials that we will hear from five individuals either in support or in opposition, but five of butters. Please put your name and address on the record and please give us new information when you speak. And if your comments and concerns have already been captured by a previous speaker, please put your name, just put your name and address on the record and tell us you're in support or in opposition. Okay, appreciate your listening to these comments. So let's go, Ms. Ambassador. So, I'm Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor and I have been with the Mayor's Office of State Board Services. This time the Mayor's Office, like to defer to the board background information on the community process are office held two of butters meetings. The first was on August 26 and last was on February 7. The number of residents who participated both primary concerns that remain have been questions about the pickup drop off leading to congestion on the street. There are no sidewalks on the portions of undying. Rhetics were quite concerned about that. There's also been iterated numerous times concerns about how many members might be using the space at a given time. I just want to ensure that it's on a high number. You know, this we've talked about it sometimes if there's events, you know, can be in the double digits. We received 30 letters of opposition and one letter of support, which we've been available to the board. The applicant also went on to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association and received an opposition vote from them as well. Without a different judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters as well. Any other left officials? We're going to give testimony. Okay, I'm hearing none. I'll start with Jean Hopkins. Can you say to me, Minakis for the record? Hello. Yes, I'm Jean Hopkins. And I am with WGBH. I'm a community relations communications person with WGBH. We're located in Brighton. Our offices and studios are at one guest street. And I want to speak in support of the common room. So you are speaking as a member of a local business. You're not a resident. Are you or are you a board member? No, Brighton WGBH is in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We're not in. We Sahon Black is the 22 lakes pretty on the same side as 40. And I am a retired Boston public school nurse, not that that actually matters. I am on the fence about this project leaning towards being opposed to it. My concern number one is accessibility for possible employees that the second and third floors are not being made accessible. I am still unclear as to whether the front parking space is on Lake Street that will be the handicap spot or on Undying. Neither space really would support a parking spot. You would be removing either trees or shrubs, several big trees to do that and green space. And the five parking spots in the back really don't hold five cars. I've lived here for 20 years and I'm very familiar with the property. Proposers of this project be very specific about the hours of operation of the building in terms of being open to their members. Thank you. Thank you. Diane. You speak your name in address in the market please. Hi, my name is Diane. I live at 76 78 Kenrick Street in Brighton. I am not a butter, but I live diagonal to the property. And I am in strong support of this program. I think that in support of it, it's, you know, I think it's important to eliminate barriers and create an environment that is inclusive to all. And I have toured the property. I have met with some of the people who will be running the program. And I feel that it will be a very well run program. And I believe when they say thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Annabelle. Go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gohms from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. The BIA voted against this project. I'm also in a butter. I will not mind I'm low and I'm representing over 40 neighbors. We sent in a letter. They did give us a diagram with the post parking that they did not submit to the city. And that diagram shows them taking away the patio area and the grass area and the back, which doesn't give any mobility for the vehicles in the back. And also is looming over the property below. We'll cause drainage problems. And I just don't see how it would work. The city really needs to look at the parking and the driveway is better and narrow going up and down. I don't see how that works. Furthermore, Lake Street, 40 Lake, is on the corner of Undine. There is no sidewalks there. There is the street at that corner is not wide enough for two cars to pass at the same time. So I'm turning on to Undine to go home. I have to wait for someone coming from Undine to exit. So on to Lake Street for me to turn on. At the same time, there's pedestrians walking on the street because there's a cut through to townestates and Chandlepon area. They go to the train. They basically, of course, to walk on private property. You'll see footsteps on the private property damage property all the time. There's also parking lot for 18 cars for townestates on Undine. There is a condo with 20 parking spots on Undine that's in Newton. And there's access to Newton Common the back where golfers go down with golfers. It is a pedestrian bottleneck with cars. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to go to Ian earlier. Are you looking to get testimony here? And let's get to Galvin Owens. And if this is Secretary Galvin, please be as concise as you can. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chairman. I would like to welcome Galvin 46 Lake Street, a direct to this property. Minimally, I think this has to be deferred. The presentations that have been made both today and the previous occasions are inconsistent and often times cry to victory. The parking issue is critical. It's not as much to use although the use issue also is an issue because we're unclear how many lives are fans are going to be out there. I believe they are directly about in this property for 40 years. I'm very, very close to it. I do not believe you can put that number of vehicles behind it. The absence of the direct plan that provides for that is a concern of mine. The issue has already been raised for the possible. Runoff of water affects my property. It's directly below it at the back. I just think this whole proposal has been very a percentage and been very evasive in presenting the numbers of people and methods by which the members will get there. I think at this point, minimally, it's deferred. I think we saw it off not wanting to be opposed to the concept, but as one of the earliest speakers who actually lives on Lake Street, the absence of any specifics is a real problem. This were a fraternity. You wouldn't even be thinking about it. I'm talking about it. We don't treat it that way, but I think that this lack of specificity is still what is going to occur to them. And most especially how the participants are going to get there and how they're going to be dropped off, even the Google lift issue is a problem. We frequently have vehicles outside, idling their vehicles, waiting to pick up. It's a very busy street. Lake Street is only 22 feet wide. And as already noted, I think by the chair, because of the Boston College proximity, there was a serious problem in the office. It was a profession just accessing. It was in its major cut-through from south to north. It's a one-way street. So for all of those reasons, I would suggest at this point this would be deferred until the parking, the problem gets a chance to evaluate specifically to be some understanding the new construction that's proposed for the handicap ramp as well as what effect it's going to have on you, what even property, which is mine. I would appreciate that very much. Thank you. I want to show my hand. OK, so that closes up. This was a question. No, I just want to. Mrs. Strong, we will. We will close off comments. I need to hear from the attorney if there is any further points that they need to make. Poor. As far as the response to what you put. Yes, absolutely. So we have tried to answer all the questions. We've tried to be as consistent as we can. It's a new use. So some of this will develop. As to the parking plan, we have one developed. It's not part of the record. If the board differs, we can submit that. And have that be part of the record. The next time we are in front of you, we can also answer questions about the bad drainage. We can certainly make sure that's not an issue. As to the specific parking and drop off plan, I would just say I would ask the board to keep in mind today or when we come back. There's a very expected, very limited number of vehicles. We also have the ability to stagger, to departure and arrival times. If it ends up being an issue, this is a close knit organization. We can be very directive with the people participating in our activities. And we really hope that we can solve any of those problems in the unlikely events that they arise. OK. So. I would like to speak. I didn't get an opportunity to speak. No, no, no. What, Miss Amassa, can you close off everybody? This is just being very disrespectful of this board. So given all this information, and I think one of the about us said it very clearly that we would want to have our best angels here on this project. However, on a very operational basis, there seems to be a lot of questions and a lot of ways that the applicant has not really clearly communicated how they're going to address all these issues. So may I have a motion for the farrel? And please give us a date so that the applicant can have enough time to meet with the abouters and really put pen to paper and resolve issues here. So may I have a motion, please? A motion to defer? Sure. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. Out of cheer, we can do August 23rd. If that gives us time. Yes, that's let's do that. I was going to give it 1130. OK. And so this is a charge to you as the applicant to make sure that the drainage issue is not just hanging out there, that in fact, that front yard parking is removed. And it's accommodated elsewhere. And just just give us. Give the neighborhood the respect that they need to really respond and really respond to all these questions. OK. Thank you. Thank you. On the last case, for 1030 calling BLA, 132527645 Washington Street. This is a change for the Rockland to a three family to replace unit three with NP doors and new fire rated doors. The Violet Staticle 51 section 8U is a preventant, an article 51 section 9, the whole case that made it to the living room. Maybe that just a little recklessly. Morning, Mr. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair, members, I represent Jeffrey Block, the owner with his wife of 645 Washington Street in Brighton. The block still reside in this building. I clients originally purchased property in August of 2013. At the time, they purchased the building. It was assessed as a two family dwelling. But it was, in fact, a three family and was listed, occupied, and sold as such. The building has been assessed as a three family dwelling since 2014, just after the time my client purchased it. The building jacket is indeterminative. There is a 1972 long form application to legalize occupancies of three family, which was for some reason subsequently abandoned, indicating that the building has, in fact, been used as a three family for at least 50 years. Since this is a 2F 5000 zoning sub district, variance is required for the use, which, as I say, has been existing. There's also a site violation to the location of the main entrance to the unit, which is an existing condition, this building benefits from pre-existing side yard parking. No work is to be done here, aside from the installation of two new fire rated doors serving unit three. The building's occupancy is being confirmed, and that is a 1,283 square foot two bedroom unit. I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. And so this building has one, two, three, has six, eight bedrooms. Is this a rental or is this a condo? No, two units are rented, and my clients are owner occupants, and they have been for the past nine years. OK. How will the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good, very minimal work in terms of the project, and the side entrance is an existing condition. So no questions on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we'll call on our new one with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office would defer judgments to the board. Our office held the butter's meeting on March 14th. There were no concerns raised in that meeting. The applicant went on to the Brighton Austin and the Cruegan Association and received their full support as well. With that, we will be to the board. Thank you. Morning. This is Marma Crave from Councilor Breen's Office. Councilor Blake, to go on records for this project. Thanks. Annabelle, go ahead. Madam. Thank you. You lost, Annabelle, in the hair? OK. Yeah, I'm better on. Madam Chair, member of the board, Annabelle Gohms, and the Brighton Austin Cruegan Association. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. I have no additional questions. Can I have a motion, please? Motion to a Crow, but the PDA design and preview? Second. I'm sorry. I don't need it. Yeah. I don't think we need it. I don't need it. OK, so it's a motion to a Crow. Is there a second? Sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. This board will take a 10-minute break, and we will resume at 1110. OK. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 30 hearings, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call just to case somebody didn't hear last time. I need referrals who would draw us to the 1030 cases. So if you could be the address. OK. I'm sorry. Go ahead. I'm not sure if that was my call to action or if I'm the next one, but 43-month street. Yes, are you deferring? He's overforward on it. I'm moving forward on it. Thank you. OK. I'm going to call it to the record right now. On case BLA-129-4842-43-Mama Street. This is a change of awkwardness to a three family. The conversion of the third floor to a new unit. Violation is out of the 53, section 8. The three three dwellings are forbidden. Article 53, section 56, Office 3, 5, 8, and loading. It's efficient. They even address full record. Madam Chair, I need to reduce my cell phone this matter. Who is this, Costa? Yes, please. OK. Thank you. So please, Mr. Winkler, it's for your information. We now have a six-member board. So you need five members in support for your project to proceed. So the decision is up to you whether to proceed today or to request deferral for a full seven-member board. May I ask why that just happens? Is that my right? It might be that Mr. Ligris knows you or is connected with some part of your law firm or something like that. So I'm just a homeowner and there's no legal presentation. OK, please go ahead. Go ahead. I mean, I'm assuming that you want to go ahead. Is that a right assumption? Correct. OK, so please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing to do. Hi there. My name is Colin Winkler and I am just trying to separate the second and third floor. I purchased it in 2015. It was listed as a five-bedroom apartment. And I am proposing to convert the second floor into a two-bedroom apartment in the third floor into a single-bedroom penthouse, if you will. So you first of all, you stayed here that this is an accessory dwelling unit that you're proposing? That's actually incorrect. I had attempted to go that avenue and I was told that that was not an acceptable use of that program. So I'm looking for change in occupancy. Let's look at this then as a change of occupancy. Is it a two-family, two-three family? That is correct, Madam Chair. So please tell us how you propose to have this to make this happen. I'm a little confused. Do you mean logistically speaking? So you're proposing to take a five unit and turn it into one two-bedroom and one one bedroom? That's correct. And so essentially the front staircase will be public to the beginning of the third floor. I guess the second floor landing and the third floor will be a standalone unit and the second floor will be a standalone unit. So tell us the unit size of each one of the proposed units in the building? So the first floor unit is slightly over a thousand square feet. I think it's closer to 1200. The second floor is just over 1,100 and the third floor is just over 800. Okay. And then tell us how parking is proposed to be... proposed to be cited on this lot? There is no room for parking. The home is already slightly over the FAR. And it was purchased that way that wasn't my doing. So there is no space for parking on the lot. I just think that moving from a five-bedroom to essentially three-bedroom, albeit two separate units, is kind of very reasonable or modest. Do you have a sense of when this building was constructed? 1880, 1890. Okay. Any occupancy proposed for the basement? No, the ceiling height is not... It's not even close to the floor. Because the floor is not in support of basement occupancy. Roof deck proposed or any decks proposed? There is a roof deck. I've already been before this board for that development. And that is underway. So the deck that is visible in that picture has already been approved by this committee. And so this, when you came before us in the past, it was just for the roof deck or was it for that entire rear addition? Just the roof deck. It was just the roof deck. So the addition existed when I purchased the whole... I didn't mean to speak over you. Okay. Got it. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions, really. There's no occupancy proposed. In the basement, everything looks pretty straightforward in terms of what the proposal is. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. We're not surviving in just the mayor's office of the board services. Our office hosted in the butters meeting for this project on March 9th of this year. The circumstance regarding density, parking, and construction noise. Although the butters did state that the property was currently in a really bad condition. The applicant also met with Eagle Hills Civic Association on March and April. For the associations suggested that this building isn't in need of a full restoration. And that there are no hype that there's too much density in the area. So it should be a maximum of two family home. The association voted in a position to the project. Twelve residents opposing nine supporting. At this time our office relates to the floor judgment board. Thank you. I'll start with Ellen and Mara. Can you stay to name an address for the record, please? I have a request. I need you. Hi, Ellen. Can you hear us? Let me show you. Yeah, but you know, okay, can you name an address? Yes. My name is Jane Dean. I'm a member of the organization. Yeah, I do. And I. 45. Monument three. Okay. Now you support our opposition. And I pose vehemently. And please tell us what your opposition is. But I opposition is. I. Jack. He just. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador. Are there any other raised hands? Oh, yeah. Thank you. So Mr. Linkler, let me ask you a question. I'm not sure if you're observing all time. Time constraints on construction, etc. I am. I'm just curious. I didn't hear the objection at all. Can you answer my question, please? So your question was am I observing the progress of the roof deck? I mean, how is the are you working on during the week on the weekends? How is that going? I mean, I to my knowledge, the team is only working on the weekdays. I mean, if they could have a weekend permit, which I require, is this one with the city again? That's outside of the scope of this project just to be clear. And is this is this an investment property for you? This is my first home. I'm expecting to live in it. I have had a very long and arduous path to this point. It was purchased in 2015. There were six illegal encroachments. There was a landline dispute. There were structural issues with the foundation and the chimney that caved in. I have. Okay. We heard we understand your woes. Okay. So can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second block. I'm grateful. Thank you all. On your next case, calling the OA128-83536486-490Venigton Street. This is due construction of a four-story seven-unit building with a ground floor between studio style, dwelling unit and six additional residential, resides up at three floors, five indoor parking spaces. The violation is out of 53, section 54, screening and background. Out of 53, section 56, possibly five-unit, or official. Out of 27, DAT-5, this is the boss and I bought. Out of 53, section 12, excessive FAR. Out of 53, section 12, the National Love High, has been exceeded. They even address color record. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boss on behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, at the board may recall, this was a different version of this was back before the board and September last year. So the board voted to deny the petition at that time. A number of comments were raised during the hearing, including the bulk of the building, the setback and the rear, the number of parking spaces, the number of overall units. Since then, we have modified this project to reduce it from the original proposed that was nine units, out to seven units. We've also done a 20% reduction in the gross pluria, reducing the intensity of the variance that's requested by FAR. We've also adjusted the parking, the interior parking for six spaces to five. As I said, we reduced the number of units from nine to seven. This is probably a good place to stop showing me previous versions of this proposal. As you can see on the right side, we do show a full 10-foot setback, which is compliant in the neighborhood shopping district. The proposed use of the seven unit multi family would be a allowed use in the NS district. The variance that we were requesting for rear yard last time had our building within about three feet of that rear property line. I believe Mr. Robinson had a specific issue with that. So we have made that modification to increase the rear setback. So tell us about your existing your existing violations and tell us about the size. What are the sizes of the units? Sure. So with respect to the violations, what we do comply with a lot of size, a lot with frontage and side yard, the first violation would be the Florida area ratio. We are at 2.19, which would be above the 1.0 that is permissible in the NS district. 1.0 is pretty much the norm throughout the entire East Loss and community except so. We believe that the modifications of this project make this a much more harmonious proposal for that corner, which is Bennington Street, which is a main gateway up to Moria Heights. This site is also within very short, within two minute walking distance to where I would see station. So although we are providing five parking spaces, this is literally steps from the entrance to a blue line T station. So the access to your parking is through a garage is it in no parking. Okay. Correct. And this is acrescent is aware of the board's preference for a translucent door. So we understand that with like the production design of you. What we're seeing here that cheers the proposed parking layout. It's been selling you since since there seems to be a preponderance of garage doors in Easty. We'd love to see them incorporated in whatever is submitted to the board rather than rely that it will be picked up by the BPA. I understand I will pass it along to Mr's Actress and he does a lot of orders for it as well. Okay. So talk to about the height. Sure. So after posed overall is a four story building. There is no story limitation in the NS district, but there is a 35 foot height maximum. However, we believe that this proposed height is quite consistent with the planning spot and study that is underway for all of our ins and corners, which we believe the BPA is recommending an increase in height to four stories. And I don't want to speak for Mr. Hampton. I will let him state what the BPA is recommendation is with respect to the survival. The height of our building would be at 43 and a half feet again slightly above the 35 foot height. I'm just permitted the district currently under Article 53. With respect to screening and buffering our butter on the rear as well as our left side is the first party credit union. You do have a letter of support from that organization. And so the top floor is set back with front decks. Tell us about the breakdown on the units. Sure. So you have a studio at ground level with all generously sized two bedrooms on the upper levels. The two bedrooms range in size from anywhere about 905 square feet up to about 1100 square feet. So again, they're all being generously sized two better units. And what's the size of the studio? 565 square feet. And is this an elevator building? We know because we do have the ability to make that lower level adaptable. So the lower level is going to be a five 65 square foot studio. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. Yeah, I think we see the history here. And I think there has been some steps to reduce the scale and size of it. And pull the rear yard back as we discussed. So really no more questions for the proponent on the update. Any questions from the board? Yeah. Who is the owner developer on this project? Owner is MG2, Mr. R. Is that the mayor group? No. MG2 is a... You're saying the former mayor group? Yeah. I don't believe the mayor group has been around anywhere. MG2 is the successor. The successor. But the same organization. I wasn't around for mayor groups, so I don't know who was involved at that time. I believe there are instances still involved. You're lucky you weren't around for mayor group. You have a long and sorted history. And hopefully the successor will improve on that reputation. Yeah, Madam Chair, I can just add. I mean, MG2 group has done a number of projects in the East-Boss and community successfully. It has been very successful in working with surrounding majors on projects in around the area. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in our coalition of this proposal? I think Mr. Domingo said that. I'm sorry, Mr. Domingo. Did you have a comment? Yes, Madam Chair. I remember the board, but Domingo B.T.D. I just had a couple of comments. The maneuverability in the garage should be reduced from five to four. The overall type and maneuverability will be difficult. There's on street parking. What I unpack is just across the street. And so I don't think five spaces are necessary. And finally, it has to be an audio and video alarm because the entrance to the site and the exit of the site is right at the rear of the sidewalk. So pedestrian will not be aware of an oncoming vehicle, especially if they have a disability. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Yes. Members of the board, Natalia Benito, the mayor's head of the White Youth Services. Our office, Lucid and the board, is meeting with this project and people of 2022. A butters thought that the design was great and that it would be a good fit to the to Ben 10 street and the neighborhood. Project was also presented to the Harborview Neighborhood Association early 2021, the first time around where the association voted to oppose because of the heights, number of units and parking. The applicant met with the association once again in May 2022 to advise about the changes. Our office received the letter of opposition stating that the first floor should be used for retail space instead of living space. And at this moment, our office will like to approach the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have a few letters of support and letters of opposition as well. And American number one, can you say to name it out just for the record please once you are muted. Can you name it yourself? I'll be able to connect to the issues here but I have no additional way of saying it. You have a motion please. I'll make a motion to approve with BB of sorry VPDA design review. Is there a second? Second, Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? No. Motion carries are all second. Thank you. Thank you. I'm the chair. I'm the board. Following the next case, calling the OA 1255931, body to 62 Franklin Street. This is requested to remove the provisional. The petitioner only 58 Franklin Street. No work to be done. Violation. Section 4. Other protectional conditions. Name an adjunct for the record please. I'm sure just for the record, I was on mute. I was opposed to last vote. You were opposed? Okay. So let's let the record reflect that and that all the other board will be putting myself wearing support. And then 10 is on for this but there's also an interpreter. Tina, can you raise your hand? I'm not sure which one on as but no good one. I'm not sure. You can. Can you hear me? Do you know what she's on under? Oh, yeah, I'll hear. Okay. I know. He has an interpreter. I just am not sure if her name is Tina but I don't see her. But I know we've been talking. I know email and I know she's here. Tina, can you hear us? Can you raise your hand? I can't. Oh, she's under. I just. Yeah, I text her. I think. Yeah, I hope it's a come. I know she's on. So let's move to the next project. Please. Okay. What's her name? Tina. Tina. Tina, can you. Can you state your name and address with a record? Okay. I think it's Chris. Is it Christina Clark? Yes. Hello. Thank you. Okay. So please. Can you put your name and address on the record and the applicant's name and address on the record? I'm. My name on the record. Oh, do you mean to say on Christina Clark at 13 me hand street? Are you here for Franklin Street? No. Okay. No. Okay. While Miss Ambassador sort of the issue with Franklin Street. Let us move on to the next project, which is eight. We're going to be calling VLA 132855088 Street. This is a new roof deck. The violation of Article 68 section 2129. Root structure restriction and Article 68 section 8. Inspecies side. God. Name and address for the record. Okay. John is. Are you here for bar. H Street. I. Yes. Yes. I am. Yes. My name is for the record. John went. 80. H Street. Unit one, which is the unit that is right under Jonathan Barry unit two, which is requesting the. To build a roof deck. Are you representing the owner? No. Nope. I'm talking. Okay. But may I have a report? For me? Do you know who might be the representative for unit two? I had no idea I would assume that he is on this call. However, someone. Okay. I'm saying I've been home. All right. I want to just made your panelists. Can you unmute yourself and say to me, and I just put a letter. I'm going to ask you to do that. I'm going to ask you to do that. I'm going to ask you to do that. I'm going to ask you to do that. You're not talking to me. Oh, you are. I will. Oh, yeah. Go ahead. Hello. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. Hi. My name is Ivan Hernandez. 1111 Baker Street. What's the expiry. Sorry about that. I. I have been here for 4 months. I am on the move deck on the at AVH street. It's. Would be placed to the back of the building. Box on 14 feet by 14 feet. Originally, this project had gone. From the board. Where they proposal of the next area is there. But. There was opposition from the BPA and. of week have actually incorporate an interior stair, but access to the roof, which is what this revised set of drawings show that would basically be an interior access to the roof hatch up to the roof and a small walk over to the deck. Deck is a possibly 14 feet by 14 feet under rear of the house. I'll be structured. With them end is hold on a second. Mr Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are good. It is shown by a roof deck. You're not quite seeing the entire roof plan shown. It's just sort of a partial roof plan, but it seems pretty straightforward. And it's set back. Mr. Hannon, Hernandez, how far back is the actual roof deck from the front of the building? You just, you know, it is approximately 25 to 30 feet back. OK. Yeah, I just want to make sure the board understood. Yep. No further questions. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? And I'm Chair and members of the board, Cloner Newn with the Mayor's Office and Aput Services. At this time, our office lights up the first judgment to the board. We don't have a lot of notes on this. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. Thank you. Good morning, Marano. The Chair and members of the board, Anna Calderon, from Council President Splings office. The councilor would like to own a record in opposition, based on feedback from neighbors and the gate of heaven, neighborhood association. Please note, roof decks have presented quality of life issues for years prior to the pandemic in the form of loud parties that all hours and trash removal. And these issues only became exacerbated when the last several years. Council President Flinjas heard this quality of life concerns regarding roof decks from our seniors, young families, and person with disabilities. And he would continue to stand with the neighbor's in opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have that letter from gate of heaven in opposition. We also have two other opposition, one support. Thank you. What is the opposition based on, Mr. Secretary? Their opposition is, sorry, in fact, look. The roof deck. The roof deck, Madam Chair. Thank you. Given that information, we can have a motion, please. Are there any more raised hands, Mr. Ambassador? We're going to see a couple of raised things. John Gohead, can you state to name an address for the record, please? Yes, yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is John Yeppman. I reside as 538 East Forest Creek. I look within a half a block. I am an opposition of the roof deck as the neighborhood, as a whole, is they are very disturbing at nighttime. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. For, but, I apologize for the council of last Michael Flaherty. Due to the article 68 violations as well as the roof deck of opposition, council to our record opposition. Can John Gohead, can you state to name an address for the record, please? Yes, my name is John Winston, 88 Street Unit 1. And we are in support of the roof deck. It is in our building, we fully expected a roof deck from the day it was. And we have gold, the unit deed, Master Reed, so on the phone. Thank you. John, thank you so much. Yes. Okay. Even though I don't have information, please. Can I just ask one follow-up question. Is the upper unit owner occupied? Yes, this is it. So this is for the actual owner. This is exactly this is for the actual owner. You may have a motion, please. I'm going to make a more tonight. Sir, second. Second. All those in favor. Any opposed? I'm opposed, Eric. I'm opposed, Jean. Five, five, five, five, five, and five. And support to the motion carries. So it's been denied. Very well. Yeah. We're going back. Right. And then let's just get it. Are they ready, Madam Chair? Right, let's read. Yeah, they're on the call. They're on the phone. Tina, can you hear us? I'm not sure which one. So let's keep going. Let's give you a miss ambassador time to sort that out. Okay, let's keep going. Mr. Forkin. Following your next case, calling. The LA 11315758047 Street. This is a good word. Existing retirement home to 21 residential units. Next area, rescan. Create parking garage entirely with the existing building. Create handy capitol. Create a curb traffic garage entry. Second as well. And Ber buzzing city. Wonderful. falan layers, typically. Or the perören HSI says a кораб. donations the violation. click feet in the countries level. Michael Woods 60. Oscar. On the chair.대노. Purple. Edit. Registration. Or ot orウ where than are?OMAN. way in South Boston. I represent Christopher Anderson and Stephen Naoc in conjunction with rise construction. This is an application for the adaptive reuse of a former nursing home located at 804 East to Seven Street in South Boston, City Point neighborhood. Architectural services are provided by M. Bark Studios and Stephen Regal and Carlos Rebe from M. Barker with this morning. This is an article 80 small project which was approved by the IRA Board on February 10, 2022. The site is an existing former nursing home building situated on a lot of approximately 17,500 square feet. The building is three stories on its East Seven Street frontage and only to a natural break-change two stories on its East Six Street frontage as this is a block true law. The existing building's volume and massing will not be increased rather the existing building height and volume will all be preserved with its facades and architectural details updated and improved. Now it's minimizing any construction activities and impacts on the surrounding neighborhood. The former nursing home building square footage will be converted to 21 residential condominiums with 21 off-street parking spaces, 21 residential bike spaces plus guest bicycle parking. The building's garage will be accessed on the East Six Street side of the site where there is an existing curb cut. They'll be slightly relocated. It will be a 10-foot curb cut providing access to the interior garage. In terms of unit composition proposed are 9 one bedroom units ranging from approximately 650 to 731 square feet, 10 two bedroom units averaging approximately 1000 square feet and two three bedroom units of approximately 1110 square feet. While the maximum FAR FAR here under Zonies 2.0 the proposed FAR is 1.4. Next-series changes to the building are all aesthetic in nature with no changes to the building's volume. The zoning district is MFR multi-family residential and there are four-sided zoning violations. Loss-street parking is insufficient under Article 68 one off-street spaces required for each new studio or one bedroom unit with the proposed mix of unit types 27 off-street parking spaces would be required here by code. Proposed is a ratio of one to one one space per unit. The lot area for the number of proposed dwelling units is insufficient for 21 units in this MFR zoning sub-district. A lot size 22,000 square feet is required under the code. This spot is as I said 17,500 square feet. We have an existing condition of the present building which is simply being adapted by a low impact residential reconfiguration in attempt to minimize the zoning violations attributable to any reuse of the structure. The building is not being expanded. There is a cited violation violation of insufficient use of a open space only to concerns about the city about roof decks as we just saw in the previous hearing. No roof decks based at all is being proposed. I do point out the site is located directly across from Carson Beach and in the sugar bowl and right around the corner from a reen park in terms of usable open space readily available in the area. There are small existing second-story balconies on a third story depending upon how the building is viewed on one side of the building. Those are existing balconies that are being preserved. They used to serve the individual nursing home rooms on that side of the building. They will now be essentially cut in half. They'll be one balcony for two bedroom units, one balcony for another adjacent two bedroom units and those are the only units that will have access to those balconies. Finally, there's a site of violation for an Austrian loading insufficiency. While there's no dedicated identified interior loading area, there is Austrian area on the east-extreet side of the building within the building which could be made available to the temporary loading and offloading of motor vehicles, particularly moving vehicles, particularly within context of this being a condominious unit building rather than a rental building with a presumed lower frequency of unit turnover. Finally, there will be free IDP units, a one bedroom unit, a two bedroom unit, and a three bedroom unit. With that, Madam Chair, I'll pause to take any questions that members may have. That was a plan, Mr. Raul. Lans are good. Interesting building I've never seen this before, but one question just on accessibility, Councillor, so the building is split because of the elevation. Is there accessibility on the two street levels on east-six and seventh? I see it looks like there's a ramp being brought into on the lower level. I just want to make sure that there's accessibility in the building. There's no elevator. On the east-seventh-street side, there's direct accessibility at Brown level. Originally, there had been a proposed lift which was referenced in the private application language. Don't be a required full at-grade accessibility for the main entrance on the east-seventh-street side. On the east-sixth-street side, grade level is second floor plans, which is simply garage entrance, but there isn't that great door there which would enter the garage and you can actually cut through a stacking system and that provides entrance. We'll put you on the second floor of the building. There's also an elevator in the building as well as two staircases which obviously are not for access. Okay, so I didn't realize there was, I didn't see the elevator being proposed, but okay, so yeah, it's not called out, Mr. Robinson, but looking at the floor plans at the top center, you can see a residential elevator. Okay, and then just sort of the exterior changes, it looks like part of that is actually the accommodation of the accessible entrance. Yes, that is correct. Originally, there had been a ramp system going up to a side entrance which was deemed unacceptable for good reasons so that the front entrance of the building was redesigned to as I say provide for accessible access with an east-7th-street facing door and entry best of it all. Thank you. No further questions? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Nairis Office of the Neighborhood Services. If this sign, Nairis Office likes to bring judgment to the board, this did go through a small project of UVBA involving two public meetings and was approved by the Nibburi Board on February 10th. With that, we refer back to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The Council would like to go on recurring support based on a trust community process and compromises made by the team with the neighbors on both the number and composition of the units, the design, parking ratio and other quality of life concerns, previous interactions of the project were 31 units and then 25 units made of a studio of bathrooms. The community process is substantially resulted in 21 units, with 21 parking spaces and a mix of 1, 2 and 3 bathroom units as well as allowing for more opportunity for families to apply for affordable units in the inclusionary development program. The proponing also may change to a more traditional design based on community process, Council President Flings respectfully request that the team continue to work closely with the neighborhood, doing the construction phase and on an equality of life issues or concerns. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, I do have two letters of opposition. I have two letters. I have two letters. Rob, can you stage your name and act as for the record please? Hello, Rob. My name is Robin Adams. I direct a butter one building to the left. I live at 7.94 East 7th Street Unit G. I'm speaking on behalf of our entire Condo Association, it's 13 units. And though I believe a few concerns that we have were opposed to the parking being an exception, we think there should be, there's ample room to do 27 required spots and meet the code if there were 31 spots originally proposed. So are you in support generally of this project, however, in general? Yes. I'm caveat is that I would prefer interest parking. Yes, and one of our concerns is the robotic parking and we think that in practice, most of the new residents will park on the street and maybe in the winter or for long term, use the robotic for convenience. It's going to add a great number of cars to the street and the curb cut is taking away a street spot. And there's a couple. It looked like there was a proposal to the island that's taking away a few more street spots so it kind of compounds the street. And we're not meeting the zoning requirements and reducing already tight street spots. Thank you. All right. Three seconds to name an address for the marketplace. Yes, my name is Teresa Bonanno. I live at 8.71 East Broadway. I'm the Secretary of the Southwest New Neighborhood Association. I'm the other half and speaking about position to the project. For the same reasons parking traffic density. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Sarah Davis. I live at 7.94 East 7th Street Unit E and two doors down from the project. I would like to make known that I oppose the project because of the parking situation and the type of parking that is being implemented here in terms of the use of lifts as opposed to just normal parking spaces. Otherwise supportive of them developing the structure and bringing life back to that building that's been shuttered for a while. Thank you. Jeremy Carter. Jeremy Carter. I also am at 7.94 East 7th Street. I oppose strictly due to the parking that's previously stated as well. Teams is though the number of one bedroom since drop down. That was not in the shop position. But I think this is another point of contention that needs to be fixed as well. Because if I'm them, I'm not going to wait for my robotic parking spot from down in the parking street. And there's already not enough parking spots and the congestion is pretty bad. I also have a lot of young children around here. So we want to limit about it. We're becoming through as well. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Marancy, can you clarify the parking of the out and things like that? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. George Marancy. The parking is a one-to-one ratio. Frankly, among the boss street parking. I think the question I basically have for you is the question about the island. Is that something that you are involved with or is that part of street design? It's so the, I think what's being, I don't know if members of the board are viewing the site in Google. But there is a stripe. I believe this is what it in reference to. There's a stripe no parking area at essentially the intersection between at the point in front of the building on the seventh street side. This area is part of our article 80 commitment with the BBA. My clients will be responsible for public infrastructure improvements in this area in terms of signalization, new crosswalks. It's undetermined what's going to happen to that area where parking is currently not allowed. Whether there might be extension of green space there. That's not something that we, meaning my clients and the development team are proposing. We are in fact responding to both the BBA, Boston Transportation Department. And I assume eventually the parks department in public works in DIC as what is going to occur on the seventh street side, frontage with respect to those public development improvements. Okay. Thank you for the clarification. So, so basically before this board we have the reuse of the building to 21 units, condos, 21 condos, 21 parking spots, and three IDP units. May I have a motion place? Motion to approve. BED is under you. I'll second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's now 1155. I'm going to call the 1130. It's ready to depart. The pearls owe withdrawals for 1130. You give me the address. Yes, Mr. Secretary, 69. 69th August Street. Sure. Thank you. Call and BOA 1160-06169. Saratoga Street. I'm in that address. Wait, what? It's what about 40th and 50th, Franklin? Good afternoon. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Court of 20th, Court of Court. My business is just 51. With regards to 69th Saratoga Street, we are here seeking a deferral of the case. And for what reason is this your second deferral? It is, Madam Chair. Last time it was a mix up with regard to the citation. We were cited for groundwater late after the original refusal letter had been issued and we had to pay for this board. And currently we are working with the engineers and Boston Water and Sour to get the approvals and square away issues around the Chicago. May I have a motion, please? Motion to the deferral. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? Mr. Smalls, would it be beneficial for a later date in August? Can we get you in on July 26th at 11? Later date, later date in August to be finest. All right, so we'll do August 23rd at 11.30. Okay. Thank you so much. Have a good day. Thank you. Mr. Fullerton Attorney, John Paul Genie on behalf of 4 Cherokee Street and Mission Hill. All right. Thank you, John. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Fullerton. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? We have to be away at 1, 2, 8, 9, 4, 5, 4, 4, 4 Cherokee Street. Name an address for the record, please? Attorney John Paul Genie, 10, 4, If's a road and a branch, we have to be on behalf of the advocate for 4 Cherokee. We're seeking a deferralist. We're initially assigned to the Subcommittee incorrectly and then was put into the, the, the, obviously the full is only board of appeal. We have a, waiting for an update and we choose a letter from ISD. So that's the reason for the request. I'll second here. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any other questions? Madam Chair, I'm just recusing my self-ness. And this is Costa. All right. Date, please. July 26th at 11.30. Thank you everybody. You? Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the redispatch of the 11.30? Mr. Fortune, 85 Mount Pleasant Avenue. Thank you. Case BOA 128533085 Mount Pleasant Avenue. Name an address for the record. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm with the board. Mark LeCas. LeCasla 75 Arlington Street, Boston. On behalf of the applicant, a request to withdraw. This matter is being made. Make a motion for denial without prejudice. I'll second that. I'm sorry, I have that, Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the redispatch of the 11.30? I see that there's a request for rediferal for 1472 in the 22th Center. I do think you need to go ahead. You hear me? Hold on two seconds. Calling case BOA 12734261472 Centresree. Name an address for the record. Shane Losey with two in company architects. One billing is for Quincy Mass. And this is your second request for deferral? Yes, we're looking for a little more time in terms of coordinating the civil aspects that the committee wants for requesting. May I have a motion, please? Motion deferral. Thank you, Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? So have a date of July 26th at 11.30. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Is it 26 to 23? OK, I messed up. I don't know. I might have messed up in my note, take a few. It's a 26, Madam. Yeah. 26. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 11.30? Reconstruction. During none, I'll go back to the 10.30. Calling BOA 13104202 West Burst Street. This is construction of a new five post story office in research building with Foxy. The violation is Article 68, Section 29. The maximum allowed height has been exceeded. Group structure restriction. Article 68, Section 33, Office 3, Foxy, 10 sufficient. Article 68, Section 34. Graphic visibility across the phone a lot. Article 68, Section 14, excessive FAR. Article 68, Section 14, excessive height. Article 68, Section 14, front yard setback. Article 68, Section 31, screening and buffering. Article 68, Section 34. Colonial lots and two front yards. Article 68, Section 33, Office 3, Foxy, and loading, insufficient Pock. May I even add this for the record please? Madam Chair, I'm Chair, excuse me, Councilor. Sorry, I'll be recuse myself in this matter. Thanks, Madam Chair. I'll have to recuse myself as well. Eric, bro. Okay, given that we have two members short, I would prefer to defer this to a date one. Now we have a full board. So may I have a motion and a date please? Take a motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Any opposed? Motion carries, the date please? Well, could be tough to be to give you the date for throwing out there. We need a date when Costa is not sitting? Correct. You also need a date when Eric is not sitting in a haunsee of sitting? Yeah. I may, Madam Chair. I'm sorry? I just wanted to ask if I may speak as to the timelyness of this. You may, but I just want to make sure that you have a. Yes, ma'am. I appreciate that. Madam Chair, I will not be present on July 26th. Um, haunsee will be sitting as of right now July 12th. Okay, is it possible for you guys to switch dates, Eric? Yes. Well, I need to talk to Ahunsee, but yes. Okay. Okay. Because in the meantime, then at least we all have possibly mark doing the reviews. Okay. So there's a motion for deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? So the date is 726 at 1130. Thank you, Madam Chair. Following the next case, calling DOA 129-515. 220 to 230 Columbia Road. This is a move from the previous owner, change document repeats a shop to a restaurant with takeout. The violinist dot in the 7 section for other protection. Add your other. Please. Anybody on for Columbia Road? I can. Is that you? I sent a request on mute, but I know you spoke earlier. Sorry. We'll come back to it. Franklin Street is ready as well. All right, we'll go back to Franklin Street. Will the record calling DOA 125-593142-62 Franklin Street? This is how we just write it back into the record here. The permit being requested to provide the transit petition only at 58 Franklin Street. No work to be done. The violinist dot for six section for other protection. Name and address for the record. Can I send a request on you? Yeah, my name is Jim Tending. So I'm the new owners. Just want to change. Yeah, I just want to take over. I'm not. Everybody please. Okay, there you go. Thank you. Okay, and may I have Gina on please because she looks like she's still mute. Tina, can you hear us? Are you still on Gatins? Other second phone? Okay, I think you. She wanted to line, but we can go ahead with which. So first of all, what is the post name of the restaurant? The name of the restaurant quarter of one of two. Okay, and have you had experience with take out in the city of Boston? Oh, yes. Is this the one you can do? Yes, yes. Yes, yes. I have experienced a world decade. Yes. Where? Where are you today? I was in the childhood. I was in this location. I was in the first place. I was reading a lot of just a minute to a few days. I have experienced back in Chinatown and also in the Reddinges, Massachusetts. I have been doing business for the past year at this new location. How about the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine. There's no proposed changes. So no questions from me. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I get off to noon. This is Chulant-Bong from the Air Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter screening was held for this phone at March 31st. There were no concerns from the letters to my knowledge. Have you looked at these letters or you were trying to droit off. I have to find out if this is an attached letter that you missed again to lower. Should this be approved, can you work very closely with the applicant? So that they can understand the take-out language in the city of Boston which is different from the REDIN. Is anybody else and any other raised he jur DON? No, I was from 2.30, I mean 2.20 to 2.30 Columbia Road. I was, I was beautiful for some reason. We'll get back to you. We're on a different case. Thank you. We. So, you know this. We are not supposed to approve. I'm not going to take out a language for this afternoon. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Following an ex-K, calling B-O-A-129-5258-2232-30 Columbia Road. Okay. This is my call. Thank you. Thank you. This is Hello, Good afternoon. Hello, sir. For the previous owner, change of occupant from a pizza shop to a restaurant with takeout. The violation is Article 7, Section 4. Other protection conditions. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Rawa, you are on. Yes, can you hear me? Hello? Please put your name and address on the record. My name is Jose Rojas. I'm a member of the agency of the company, the company of the company, the company of the company. I'm here to remove a proviso. I've had the operator's meeting on March 2nd, 2022, and a sustainable development committee is going to need. What is the proposed name of your restaurant? The proposed name is La Familia Kitchen. It was previously a pizza shop and now it's going to be a takeout restaurant. Do you have experience with takeout in the city of Boston? Yes, ma'am. Very much so. My parents owned the LECS over a Stolten Street in Dorchester, and I've worked there throughout my life. Okay. What were the plans, Mr. Robert? Plans are good. No questions and no changes. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office would like to defer a judgment to the board. As the applicant mentioned, we had an abouters meeting through ONS back in March. It also received letter of support from the Dudley Street neighborhood initiatives. With that, we defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. I have no additional words against the moment. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Use your takeout language for this applicant. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all sector block. Thank you. Following your next case, following the OA 132-763-351-253 walk hill street. This is to change from a one family to administrative office to a three. The violation of Article 55-65-40, OSTPAC is insufficient. Article 55-8, proposed three family uses for the Article 55-69, the Floody Array, which was excessive. Article 55-69, the building has excessive stories. Article 55-69, the side yards is insufficient. Article 55-69, the front yards is insufficient. And Article 55-69, the youthful space is insufficient. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drago, with Drago and Tuscana, with a business address of 11 Beacon Street, here on behalf of the applicant, Blurina Dresy, 51-53 walk hill street. And I also have Devon Riley, Marini from Chu, as the architects of the project. As was mentioned, we're seeking to change the occupancy of the building from a one family and administrative offices to a three unit residential condominium building with three rare parking spaces accessed through a driveway and the existing driveway on the right side of the building. We're also proposing to completely gut renovate the building and add a dormer to match the right dormer that's existing now on the top, making that top floor unit. And I just want to go over the layout of the plan. The basement will remain as common unfinished basement and storage area. The first floor, what housed the main entrance to the lead to unit one, which would be a 1,036 square foot three bedroom two bath with a rear deck. Going up to the second floor, which would house unit two. We're proposing a 1,127 square foot three bedroom two bedrooms. The second floor, which was connected to the second floor, was proposing that unit would be 1,054 square feet two bedroom two bath and would also house the new dormer, which is 33 feet 10 inches to match the exact size of the dormer. On the other hand, the second floor would be 1,054 square feet two bedroom two bath and would also house the new dormer, which is 33 feet 10 inches to match the exact size of the dormer on the right of the building. So I have a couple of questions. This is a 1,4000 district. And you're proposing to convert a one family in office through a three family. And in addition to adding a dormer, can you tell us how this will, tell us what the side yard is that's required and what are you proposing because we've been seeing some projects coming through where because of the lack of side yard, the abudders are completely shadowed out. And tell us about the building height because it's obviously exceeding the number of stories. Correct, Matt. So we already have a dormer on one half, because we're matching that on the left hand side. So this is the one that's the most fun of us to the full three story. But we are a 35 feet, which is common up and down this area. And just to know, there are three all to the left of us. There's one, two to the right of us, but there is composition of all three, two to this area, even though it's a label is a one half. The side yard that you had asked on the left side were six feet nine inches from the property line 9 feet 1 inch but we have a shared driveway with our neighbor. There's another 10 and a half feet to their building. And so on the left side what's the required side yard? It's 10 feet. It's 10 feet. But it's this is an existing right? So we're not building. So the the farmer on the side that has the six feet 9 inches is the existing normal. No, it's the right side is the existing problem. Okay, so so in essence the last side is the one that is that is pinching on the side yet. Okay, and then to your three feet 35. Okay, how are the plans Mr Robinson? Plans are fine just I guess just a concern about the parking in the back. I'm sure that we have proper screening and buffering and the shared driveway is wide. So maybe there's some looking at that as well, but no other questions on the proposed. So I think it's pretty straightforward doesn't extend now past the edge of the roof and it's consistent with the some of the other buildings. And if my memory and if my memory so it's me right is there no parking was this resident parking on this side of walk hill. I don't know. I thought it was resident parking. Yeah, I think it might be resident parking. Okay, any bits mark resident. Yeah, any other questions from the board? Is there an easement on the shared driveway? Yes, Mr. Larkin so us and the neighbor both have the use of both to access only. And then this brings us to the rear of the property right now there's an existing garage back there. It's antiquated. It's not even structurally sound. There's two very small spaces that don't work. Well, take that down. We'll add the third. These are all full spaces. So they're nine feet by 20. And what's required and parking for parking so it's it's for it's one per. So it would be two additional spaces for the new units. We have three totals. We do have a parking violation. So the parking violation is a short one or short two one. Okay, it's a very large shared driveway. Does the easement specify how snow removal is handled paid for? It does not. It's I mean, the building is an existence now, although it's it's not habitable discussing conditions. So it's always been used. It doesn't, but you know, we would it's it's pretty clear that our half is the night feet one inch. So we would, you know, we would be responsible to condo building directly next to us. So it's recently renovated. So I have to assume they also would have a management company. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes. Good afternoon. Madam chair members of the board to think I'll get over here from the mayor's office of new services. And I'm putters meeting for this project proposal was facilitated by our office on Tuesday, March 29. And on record, I have two letters of support. Additionally, did you make a plane? New York Council approve this proposal at this time. The mayor's office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. I have no additional rights. Yes, I'm sorry about that. We do have two letters of support. Mr. Hampton, any comment from the BPA? Thank you, Madam chair members of board, Jeff Hampton, BPA. We recommended approval with design review for any exterior changes. Thank you. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review. Also looking at the screening and buffer parking as well as any exterior changes. Is there a second? I'll second round. Liggers. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second look. I'll move on. The next case calling the OA 1327640132 Chestnut Hill Avenue. This is change, I can include a restaurant, the violation of Article 51, Section 16. The use is forbidden. Name and address for the record please. I believe he's honest as an attendee. I'm at the area. I'm at the area. I'm at the panel. It's not a med. When you are made a panelist, you can just unmute yourself so we can move forward with the case. Okay. I'm going to go ahead. Can you hear us? Can you speak? Can you go on to the next case and come back to this one? Is all the technical issues are resolved? He's a needed now. Okay. Let's go for it then. He is a needed. I mean having some difficulties there. Can you hear us? That's yours going on. I'm a support you can me go to the next project please. The next case, calling B.O.A.1281800140-144. This is a change of occupancy to a cannabis establishment by a LAS Article 51, Section 16. Cannabis retails store uses conditional, an Article 51, Section 16. Cannabis establishment location shall be cited at least one half mile on 2640 feet from another existing cannabis establishment. Amen. Add just for the record please. Hello, Madam Chair. I'm Members of the Board. This is Mike Ross from the Law from a Prince Low Bell, one international place on behalf of the applicant. The applicant is a social equity applicant and the owner is a lifelong resident of Boston. What I wanted to do, Madam Chair, is talk about the conditional use first and then do the buffer after if that's okay. Yes, let's go for it. All right. This is a good slide to start with here. What you're looking at is about 4,200 square foot. It's all on one floor coming right off of Harvard Avenue on your left. So hold on. Let's hold on for a second. Is this a CC one district? CC one. That's correct. CC one. Okay. So it's a community commercial and where's what's the what's what's a button yet? So on the left you have a small retail on the right. You have retail. And there's a driveway kind of to the left there. To get to the rear of the facility. Okay. So go ahead. Talk us through the. Yeah, Madam Bats, we can go back to the first slide really quickly. So what you're looking at there is about 2,100 square feet of public space. In addition, there's a 650 square foot queuing area to the front off right off of Harvard Avenue. There will be there are six point of sale stations with the top one being ADA compliant. There will be three ID checks. So a security guard will be standing in that Alcove on the left right off of Harvard Avenue. The second ID check would be at that desk there in the queuing area. And then the third would be at the point of sale. So that would be your third ID check. If you're going to page three, it will show you how deliveries and site plans. So I can show you how the deliveries work. One more, please. I'm sorry page four. Sorry Madam Ambassador. One more. There you go. So off the rear you could zoom into the rear a little bit. What you see here are nine employee employee parking spaces. We're going to make this available to our employees because of that tight alleyway there. We think that's easiest and best terms of letting people get in and out. So there'll be nine spaces there for our employee. There's a dedicated space for the delivery of product. There's also bicycle space back there as well as as well as the front of the building where there's also bicycle. That we will be providing page three, the one before this will show you kind of the overall parking window here. If you zoom out just a little bit. So what we've done in the green parking lot, which is right across the street from us. We've we've rented 10 dedicated parking spaces. So those will always be available for this facility. It's a two minute walk to the facility will advertise that will make that known to our clients. Many will be repeat and they'll know that this is where they park and have 10 parking spaces. The red is just the municipal parking lot. Let's hold off who owns that parking space and is that considered ancillary parking in other words will it be in there? Indeed that this is going to be rented to your facility. No, we could make a condition like a provider. You've done that in the past. Now I'm chair, but since we're not requiring since we're not required to have parking at this site. It doesn't require it is not deemed to be ancillary parking. We're doing this over and above. Okay, so who owns that parking lot? Is that the city site? No, the green parking lot is privately owned. Okay, got it. And we're in two of these with that. Sorry. No problem. And the red that is a city on that's a 60 parking parking space municipal lot. Just pointing that out just so you can see that there is parking there. But I think the important takeaway here is that we have nine employee spaces and 10 customer spaces all in. I wanted to talk about the buffers on really quickly. And you know, often the board is asking why what justifies it. We have four key reasons. Demand, density, parking, and public need. And just one sentence, Madam Chair, for each one of those things. For demand, this I think is the highest, the third highest precinct in the city in 2016 voting for cannabis 84% voted for cannabis in this precinct. Above 63, which the city had as an average density. This is the 18th most tense kilometer out of 200 kilometers in Boston. That's a Boston magazine stat. It's a very dense area. Parking and transit. I've mentioned the parking. There's also MBTA lines, the green as well as bus lines in the area. And public need is the last Madam Chair. There are nine bars and restaurants. There's five retail package stores in this immediate area. There are eight coffee shops in this immediate area. There is a demand to fill this and the nearby cannabis establishment as well. I would just. The next close this one is a block over. It's 250. It's 116 Harvard. I think there are in front of you in April. There are 250 feet away from you away from us. So it's close, but I would respectfully submit Madam Chair that competition should not be a consideration or potential competition should not be a consideration in terms of what the board's factors of the other ones that I mentioned. The only final thing to say is that the hours of operations at 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Sunday. And I can pause there and answer any questions Monday through Sunday. So it's seven days a week operation. Nine to nine. Never came up as a change that so we propose nine to nine. And we know there's a high density of young people in the 21 plus age range and proximity. Okay. And how are the plans from Sir Robinson? Plans are fine. Any questions? No. No. Any questions from the board? Yeah. Just one or the offer is owned by a license. What's the proximity? Yeah. So we have a couple in this area. I think this is a media area. There's there's one at one sixteen Harvard, which I mentioned is to the north of this plan. As I mentioned, was before you in April. That's about 250 feet away, Mr. Arlock. There's also across the street from Commonwealth Avenue. Mayflower medicinal. You may remember it came before you a little bit ago. They are just around 500 feet. There's. Sorry. I don't remember the one on common app. What's the address? It's not uncommon. It's made farm medicinal is in the 200 block of Harvard. It's right. 30 Harvard out of the matter, chair. 230 Harvard. Thank you, Mr. Leagers. And that's right near the Brooklyn border. Oh, I see. Okay. Okay. Got it. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Just is Bayflower medical only? Bayflower is medical. They have applied for their adult use to be co-located in that site. Got it. I think that's what we're talking about. One thing we didn't mention, but you kind of raised it indirectly there, Mr. Leagers, is everyone will be carrying. Most everyone will be carrying different products. So what's available at one location may may never be available at one of the other locations. It's not like it's just you go into buy cannabis. And this is so specific at each one of these locations that each one will have its own demographic and market and interest. And what they're doing, we have a proprietary blend. That's from a called doctor green thumbs, which is very well regarded and very well sought after. And it would only be about what this location in this area. Thank you. Let's just see. So we got questions. It's anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal. And again, I'm going to hear from. I'm going to hear from five people. I want to hear from elected officials are representative from elected officials. And then I want to hear from five people. And I would like those five people to be residents of the neighborhood. So that will be my preference. So whoever is not a resident for the neighborhood, because I see a lot of hands popped up. Can you lower your hands please? Okay. So, Mr. Baster, please help. Okay, you guys ready? All right. So Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, Newman with the Mayors of the neighborhood services. At this time, the Mayors office like to defer judgment to the board. So, the lengthy community process on this. We had our first public meeting on January 24th. There were some disruptions that meeting. So the cannabis board asks old and additional meeting on March 31st. We heard a variety of opinions. Some residents were excited to see something coming into a long time vacant storefront. Other residents were impressed with their commitments to helping the local businesses deal with a repeated problem in the neighborhood. And they were also interested in the public as well as commitments to the arts. Other residents were worried about an oversaturation of marijuana dispensaries in this particular area. So I think the buffer zone conflicts. And they also went on to the Austin Austin Civic Association and the Bright Austin Improvement Association. I don't believe either organization took a stance because there was also an application. I'm within the block. They did receive support from state rapid. Mike, the RANDs office and I believe they also received support from state rapid Kevin Homes office as well. With that information, we defer it to the board. Thank you. Okay, Secretary, we do have letters of support and opposition and we do have those letters that Connor spoke of. Thank you. Madam Chair, my name is Jennifer McLeory. I work for state representative Michael Moran. Retinorans have been very involved in the cannabis process and also Brighton. We've supported locations and we've opposed locations. But Retinorans thought it was very important for me to come on today's meeting to support Dr. Green Thumbs proposal at 144 Harvard. I have this is really not a difficult decision for him to support this use in this location. As well as the request to grant relief for the buffer zone. There's several reasons why this is a very suitable location and why this proponent deserves our support. The majority owner is MA certified equity applicant in a Boston resident. The site location 144 Harvard as it is in more 21 present five. They voted well over. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Gabriel Camacho. I am the political director of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1445. I'm here speaking on behalf of our membership that lives in the 02134 zip code as well as the butters. We had two union members ready to testify but they had to leave at 1130. So please, you know, as you know, we've been at this since 930. So please can you get to the point? Yes. Whether you're in support and the reason. We totally support this project by up go at 144 Harvard. We've all had a lot of support. There are commitment to racial equity and also on let me conclude on a personal note. I used to live blocks away from the Harvard Avenue business corridor. One of the reasons why I frequented that area was the variety of different businesses that one can. One can pick from. like boutiques, they have their own particular products and culture. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, members of the Board, as Paul Salt, the Council of the Lodge and Michael Flare's office. The Councillor would like to speak directly to the issue of the buffer zone. Adult use cannabis has come a long way since 2016. One of his major concerns had been, and still is, the process by which cannabis establishments are located throughout the neighbourhoods of Boston. That's why you filed the buffer zone amendment to the zoning ordinance. Use concern the neighbourhoods would become negatively affected by the city of cannabis businesses, with too many businesses located in the same area. The purpose of the amendment was to provide next-for-set eyes on the location of these establishments to prevent the establishment of a so-called remile or concentration of dispensaries. It was not, however, intended to serve as a prohibition or a ban, but rather intended to serve as a further review. Their multiple locations are supported within the same area, by elective officials of the community and the community as a whole, and where there are different products amongst those facilities, the variances may be warranted in those cases. That's why he's speaking today in an on-opposition to this proposal, deferring to the District Councilor and the community membership and community leadership, he appreciates his e-b-s-pagion leadership in this area, and he hopes that his comments may have been helpful in trying to clarify the purpose behind the buffer zone regulations. He'd also like to point out that as Councilor Ross stated that 84% in precinct 5 voted for legalization of marijuana in that area. Thank you. Let's look at that. Can I just ask everybody else who will testify? First of all, I want to hear from residents. I want to be elected officials. I want to hear from residents from the neighborhood. If you're not a resident, please lower your head. Okay? And we'll hear from five people. So let's go. Looks like there's Caitlin from the BPD8. If you want to give testimony here. No, we will hold out on the BPD. Let's just go to residents. Madam Chair, could I speak on behalf of the Austin Civic Association? Yes, please go ahead, Tony. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm the board. Tony Tizaduro representing the Austin Civic Association. We would like to go on record non-opposition to this proposal, given the concentration of proposals in this specific area of Austin, we want to defer to the board to make the determination we got in the buffer zone issue. Madam Chair, the last time we met on cannabis at 116 Harvard Avenue asked me a question that I didn't have the answer for and I want to provide that to you. As you know, we also throw in the proposal at 259 Cambridge Street in Austin. It's a little bit over a half mile away from these three other proposals, but 259 Cambridge Street and 230 Harvard averages may follow to answer your initial question. They are non-equity applicants and they were approved by the board. 116 Harvard Avenue just approved is an equity applicant as well as the current one you have before you, which is 144 Harvard Avenue is also an equity applicant. So again, given the concentration of proposals we'd like to defer to the board to make a judgment on the buffer zone issue. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I testify on behalf of Representative Honein? Yes, please go ahead. Good morning, everyone. My name is Alex Camarena. I'm an eight-to-state rep Kevin Honein. I am here on behalf of the representative to testify in his support of Dr. Green Thumbs and their proposed location at 144 Harvard Avenue. Dr. Green Thumbs has engaged residents and business and throughout the licensing process and sharing the community's concern for her. They have demonstrated their commitment to beautifying the Harvard Avenue business district and embrace the local creative community offering space to all of us by their work. In addition to being intentional and hiring local Boston residents, they are dedicated to supporting the vitality of our neighborhood and businesses. Representative Honein will also like to note that while dispensaries in the area may be close on proximity, Austin is a community which voted overwhelmingly for the legalization of Maryland. Let me stop you right there because I think everybody has already used the district. And so we have that information in the front. Let's go on to the next person, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. You'll bury Hines, though. Hello. My name is Barry Hines. I'm a Director of the Butter at 10 Glenville Terrace in Austin. I support this application for license. Thank you. Sean Glen. Hi, how you doing? I'm a local resident from Austin. I oppose this. What is your address, please? 587 Cambridge Street. Okay, you oppose it. Okay, go ahead. Next person, please, Mr. Ambassador. I'm Joshua Sullivan, the head. Yes, my name is Joshua Sullivan. My family's been in Austin for 50 plus years. I live on Cambridge Street. Let's see a address on Cambridge, please. 163 Cambridge Street, exact. Okay, cool. I am opposed of this. Okay. All right, thank you. FEMA, DEMA, Munir. Hi, my name is Duma, DEMA Munir. And I live at 102 Austin Street. And I am in favor of this. Thank you. Alex Shane. Hi, my name is Alex. I live at 49 Cushion and Road. I also work as a community organizer in the neighborhood to the Boston Cycle Union. But I'm here as an individual today. I am opposed to this project because I do not want to add a huge corporate back dispensary next to a smaller local owned shop that would have a negative impact on their business. Thank you. May I have Ms. Oledi on the vera? Yes. Yes. Go ahead. I'll say to your name and address for the work at the New Zest Center Request on New Year. Oh, okay. Can you hear me? Yeah, go ahead. Okay. I'm an Austin resident. So I've just broke some notes down on the neighborhood. You're name and address on the work at? Yep. Christian Oliver, 50 Glenville. I'm a lifelong resident. I care deeply about this community. I've lived in Austin for 32 years. My mom's been here for 33. I supported marijuana legalization. I am an advocate for cannabis. But I don't believe the 140 Harvard app proposal will be a good for the community and surrounding business because there would be too many dispensaries closer, too close, together along Harvard app. Austin will be labeled as the go-to neighborhood for the pot shops. And Austin has a lot to offer in the way of arts music and food, but it does not need to be labeled as pot shops. So there's may flower at the intersection there. If I understand correctly, there's one that's going to be potentially opening at the end of Harvard app. There's other locations within Austin itself that this location could go and not be so clustered for between Union Square, Cambridge Avenue. And so I am concerned that having too many so close together will have a negative impact on our property values as well, which is exuberant as I'm sure you all know. So I'm adamantly opposed to this proposal. OK. Now we will cut off comments right there. Mr. Ross, can you identify who the equity applicant is? And if that equity applicant is on this meeting? Yes. The equity applicant is Leah Samara. She is a lifelong resident of Boston. Currently lives in Madapet and she's a black woman. She's very well known to the community. She owns 51% of this business. The fact that she has investors who are willing to trust in her is we think is a good thing. There has been a lot of. It's very wixly in his last name. Samara, SA and URA. And is he an investor in any other cannabis establishments in the city or just this one? Not within the city of Boston, just this one. And there's just been a lot of competition between the other applicant and this one. And that's been driving a lot of the negative comments. OK. So given all this information, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion for approval for this applicant only. I think we can do that. Eric. All those in favor? That's my help. Aye. Any opposed? Any opposed? Aye opposed. Costes opposed? Motion carries. I see RL. Step at that. Provise. Thank you very much. I'm going to go back to going to go out Brain T Street case B O A 131 8050 90 Brain T Street. This is Eric. I'll be refusing myself in this case. This is a constructed new multi-failing residential building with pocket garage, include 111 residential units and 58 parking spaces, violation of Article 51, section 9. Open spaces insufficient. Article 51, section 57.2. The existing building alignment conformity. Article 51, section 57.3. Traffic visibility across the corner. Article 51, section 8. Multi-family use has been Article 51, section 9. The additional lot of areas and sufficient. Article 51, section 9. The fluid air ratio is excessive. Article 51, section 9. The building hides excessive in storage. Article 51, section 9. The building hides excessive in fee. Article 51, section 9. Print yards insufficient. And Article 51, section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. They've been addressed for the record. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Jay Eigerman of Ruben, Jr. and Rose in the office at 112 Water Street. With me, our Ruthie Coolman and Lucas Herringshaw, Brodie Architects, Dave Wombs, for the developer. Next slide, please. So, Orian, everyone, this is a subarea of the Brighton Guest Street planning study area from 2012. As this board knows, the neighborhood has been transitioning over to multi-family use. The site shown in red has frontage on brain tree street and peniman street. So those are both front yards. The peniman, excuse me, peniman road. The peniman road play area is shown in green. Next slide, please. This is a corner lot. You can see that there's surface parking right now. It's a former. So, Mr. Herringshaw, can you go directly and tell us about, because I think your slides already give us context. Can you go to the proposal, please? Sure. Next slide, please. The proposal is for our multi-family building. It will range from four stories to six stories. The tallest six stories are on brain tree street and it goes down to four stories towards peniman road play area. There'll be 111 units. The mix is three three bedrooms, 24 two bedrooms, 10 one bedroom lofts, 27 one bedrooms, and 47 studios, 20% IDP. So tell us again what lofts are. Yes, they're on the first story and they have a higher ceilings. As I understand, four of these are gonna be reserved for artists and will be IDP. Okay. Let me just get my numbers down. Here's a 47 studios, 27 one beds, 10 lofts, okay? And of the IDP breakdown, if we could go to the next slide. I'm sorry, next slide after this. These are the average sizes. So the studio's average about 460. The one bedrooms, what bedroom, 640? What bedroom lofts, 735? And you can see the two bedrooms at 900 and the three bedrooms at 990. Those are the averages with maximum and minimum. There are no compact units. Next slide, please. These are just above and compacts, right? The studio is at the minimum. The averages are higher, but there is one studio that's just above, that's correct. These are the IDP units. As you can see, to give you the breakdown. Okay, so let's, I don't wanna get too far into the weeds. Given us the units, tell us about all the evaluations. But if we're what is required on parking and what are you proposing for parking, can we just talk about your violations? Sure, just to the violations. So the area still has its underlying zoning of three family 4,000. So multi-family is not allowed without a variance. The building height would be to 69 feet, which is higher than allowed and to six stories. And surrounding buildings are also at that height that they also needed zoning relief. The FAR would be about 3.6, but because it's a three family zone still, that would be 0.8 under underlying zoning. Usable open space needs relief. Again, the usual open space is designed for three family in this zone. We're providing 9,500 that requires a variance. On front setback, technically there is a required front setback on both brain tree and enement of 20 feet. And there's no mode. Normally you would look to the mode and there wouldn't be a setback, but because there's a park on this block, it's not any variance. The rear yard is actually backing on to the pen and enrode play area. Our rear yard normally is 30 feet in this three family zone. We're proposing just over 15 feet. And of course there's the stepping back of a building to account for that. And we will, we have been working with parks department staff and we have to go back to the commission for their approval. As far as parking, the parking is dictated by a large project review. Working with the Boston Transportation Department, we're doing just over a point five ratio. So for the 111 units, there are 58 onsite parking spaces and of course by parking is one to one with guests as well. And is there a spot within the garage or whatever it is for loading? I believe so. Yes, I'll let me turn it over to the architect. Yes, there's a covered dedicated loading spot within the garage. Okay. Let's see any roof decks proposed. Yes, Madam Chair, the public open space. I think if you go back, maybe the slide six or so will be shown. There, there are roof decks on both the four story portion and the six story portion. They're designed to be away from the two family houses on Hanno street to the west. And they connect to indoor amenity space as well. Okay. And they're available to all residents. Most of them are. There are some decks, I think, on the lower level that is only to one unit. It's a mix. But most of the 9,500 yes is common usable. Okay. And so that's good that you're trying to protect those Hanno street residences. Have you done a shadow study for the park? Yes, Madam Chair, we did as part of our tragic review. Happily, the building is on the north, on the north side of the park. So there is no significant impact on the park with the southern exposure. Okay. In the summer solstice. So that's coming up. There are shadows in the early morning to the west in the backyard to those Hanno street but nothing on the open space. Okay. And tell us about those lofts. Are they all on the ground floor so that they can accommodate different kinds of artistic endeavors versus working at a computer? Yes, they're on the ground floor and they'll have a direct entrance to the street or to the sidewalk on the side of the building. There is one that is fully accessible. Okay. Okay. Okay. Any questions? How are the plans for Mr. Olic? The plans are nice, it's nice drawing. There are, I guess, two issues that get raised for me. One is that there is a, you know, there's an awful lot of small units. The studios are nearly half of the total and they are on the small side and I think that just raises the question of what is the most important thing to do and I think that just raises the question of what kind of units all some bright needs. I'm certainly familiar with the site. There was a training facility here that I used to go to so I know the area. So that concerns me and the other thing is that the, it just covers the entire lot. I mean, there's really, there's no set, really setbacks anywhere and that's somewhat of a concern. But the drawings are nice and technically well done. Any other questions from the board? Can you just go over the IDP, the number of units in affordability? Yeah, so I'm sorry if you could go forward. I, going from memory, I think it's slide seven. It's 22 IDP and that's right. And what's the affordability? Right, 22, it ranges. So I have to go to that table. Some of ours loads as 50%. So some are as close 50 and some are as high as 110. You indulge me. This shows the bedroom count, square footage and the AMI levels. Just to summarize, there are four one bedroom IDPs, nine studio IDPs. As I said, four of the one bedroom locks are RIDP. Three of the two bedrooms are IDP and then two out of the three bedrooms are IDP. Okay. I think the other question I was going to ask, is there a representative on from the BPDA? I know Jeff, you are on, but is there a project manager on or maybe this is a question that I'm going to toss out and you guys can figure out who responds to it. But it seems that there is a lot of development being proposed within this area, starting from Cambridge going all the way over. What is there that's looking out for the street and how it prevents getting this walled in effect with very dense development going back to Mr. Olick's point about the number of one bedrooms and the number of studios and the small sizes of the units. I don't know if project manager, Caitlin Coppinger is on, we'll give her a time. But this did go of course for a large project review before the BPDA. It was found to be consistent with the guest street planning study that I alluded to from 2012. So, I mean, Caitlin, can you please unmute Caitlin Mr. Ambassador? Yep, I'm here. Okay, please tell us from a planning perspective, not from a development perspective, from a planning perspective about how light and air and density are all being accommodated for in this triangle that includes Union Square condos that were built like 30 years ago. But then all the recent development that we've seen on Cambridge Street, on the edge of Brain Tree Street, starting at Cambridge and all the internal development by Peniman and all of my memory serves we right have come through for relief from parking. And I'm afraid that this neighborhood is going to become unsustainable in a very short period of time because there's also been all the development that's come by on the other side of Hano, on Lincoln Street. So can you just kind of talk about what's really happening in this triangle that feels like it's being, like it's a new neighborhood altogether? Yeah, thank you for that question, Madam Chairwoman. As you may know, project managers do review just single projects at a time, but I can speak to the Brighton Guest Street planning study that was adopted in 2012. So that study created a public realm context for the multiple industrial and commercial landscape blocks that really took over this area. The study asked for the introduction of new streets and on-site circulation and service and loading. So this study also did require the creation of new urban blocks with complete streetscapes in order to create a context for new multifamily development. Specifically for this project, the study identified that 90-grade street falls within this area for mixed use development within FAR between 1.25 and 3.25 on a height between 60 and 110. So we feel that this project does fall within the planning guidelines. Hold on, so for this project, the FAR was proposed between one point, what was it again? The study called for it between 1.25 and 3.25 and a height between 60 and 110. Okay, so again, you know, this, you know, it's a, and so this proposed FAR is 3.6, which overreaches on the FAR. And you know, this might sound like it's, you know, getting to the issues at the edge, but if you combine the FAR, the increase in FAR from the ceiling that was created by the study where this further extends that FAR and the number of one bedrooms and studios, it feels like the density is skewed in some way. And the other question is, what thoughts when they are creating additional three bedrooms? Yep, that's a great question. So for the DevCV project, we really did try to keep the density away from the park, which is why you see some of the step downs. That was a big consideration to make sure that the public park, Pennamon really did feel public. There were an ask for some three bedrooms, which this project did include. I didn't come up as much within the public process. The more asked was in terms of greater affordability, which this project has contributed 20% of their units to the IDP program at a range of AMIs. Okay, okay. Okay, let's see, anybody here? Thank you, Ms. Coppinger. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Nernum and with the Mayor's Office, neighborhood services, this time, Mayor's Office looks at the FAR judgments of the board. It's heard from Kate and Coppinger with the AM, went through a lengthy BPA process. The app can also held in a butters meeting, after BPA process to communicate with the butters on the subsequent street. They also reached out to the also right in the CDC, who owns a number of money properties in that area. They've also met with the Brighton also in improving association, which I believe will be on testify as well as the also in civic association. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have one letter of support. I'm sorry, two letters of support, one letter of opposition. Thank you. Good afternoon, this is Marmer Prade from Councillor Brayden's Office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support of this project. We appreciate it. How the proponent responded to concerns. We appreciate that Councillor thinks of the density for this project is appropriate, given the other projects that have been approved in this area. We also appreciate that the massing is responsive to the project's location, adjacent to kind of a park. We appreciate that the proponent has included 20% IDP, IDP units on site. And just in regards to the number of the unit mix, this project is tracking pretty much what's average in all St. Brighton in terms of the percent of studios, one beds, three beds. And in fact, they're including more than what we usually get in terms of the number of two and three beds, two and three bed IDP units, which the council are also appreciates. And they're also including artists live work units, IDP artists live work units, which is pretty neat in this location. Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, the council of the last Michael Plierty and council of the Oregon Support. Right, Anthony God. Madam Chair, members of the board, 20th is the door representing the Austin Civic Association. Madam Chair, we went on record in support of this project. As was mentioned previously, the project has gone through an extensive article 80, large project review. The proponents have been very responsive to the community concerns over unit mix and density. They actually reduce the number of units, they increase the number of family units, two and three bedrooms, and did reduce the number of studios that were in the original proposal. It's very attractive to our membership, we're guiding 20% on site IDP, going from 50 to 110 AMI, legal level. But Madam Chair, the other point I think needs to be made here too and not to say one thing corrects another, but adjacent to this area that you speak of, and I absolutely agree with you, there is considerable development going on in it. The Boston Landing project and the Stop and Drop project that did not come to the board because there were PDAs involved and simply went from BPDA to the Zoning Commission. There are a number of buildings, either proposed or built, but fire exceed the guest street car study, Zoning and Planning study. This project, as was mentioned by the council's office, given the proximity to Boston Landing, the community of rail station, to public transportation, given that is pretty reasonable and appropriate for the area. We appreciate the fact that we certainly don't want backups, traffic jams and what happy, but I think the emphasis on complete streets transforming this area to a more bike pet community rather than an industrial area will help alleviate those concerns. So we would like to go and work it in support. I know, we are familiar with. Noah Coolidge. Noah Coolidge with the Austin Brighton CDC. We own and operate two developments that are within a stone's throw of this project, including directly across Hanoes Street. We also have, and we think this project has worked closely with the neighbors to help ensure that it's a positive addition to neighborhood and are also grateful for financial support through the community benefit process and ongoing efforts to enhance affordability in the area. And we look forward to welcoming new residents. Thanks. Thank you. Sorry, Annabelle Gohan. Madam Chair, members of board, Annabelle Gohan, some of the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. And then I also speak out an IERG number as well. The Brighton Austin Improvement Association voted not to support the project. And as the majority of the IERG also voted not to support the project, we do acknowledge that 20% affordable, which is great, it's what we seek. And we do acknowledge the $500,000 donation to the CDC. Which is great for renovating the Hanoe apartments. But we do feel that the property is two dents. It takes up the whole entire property right up to the park. But more, it's six stories, abutting two-story homes on Hanoe and the outreach to the people there was not enough. And we do not find it's two dents with no green space. Yes, Boston Landing is softly shopped, but they've got the land to put a train station, stop and stop, you don't need a $2 million to infrastructure for the T. So they've done a lot to go forward. I just don't feel that this project has done enough to get this much density on such a small lot. Thank you. Do you want to go more? Can Broadway's hands are? Let's go with a couple more in the most comment. Okay, Jim Long, go ahead. Yes, hi, Jim Long. I live in Brighton. I was also a member of the IAG. And I would say that we also sent in a letter which voiced many of our concerns in opposition to this project or dealing with density, parking and the fact that there's no setbacks. Couple with the fact that this has already been noted there's a tremendous amount of development on that street. In this project is just going to make that condition worse. So I want to be a marketist in opposition. As was the way. Minor Perez. We're after the mansion, share members of the board. This is Minor Perez, her percenting funders of union carpenters that live in work for us here in Boston. At this moment, I want to go and support this project. Thank you. Bob Domingo? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob Domingo, BTCD. With live project, we've required 25% of the parking spaces be ready for electric charging stations. And the other 75% have the infrastructure. So they can have an easy transition to future electric charging stations. Thank you. Thank you. John, last one. I was a member of the I.G. as well. And. The name and address for the record. Oh, sorry. John Brie. I was 1970 Commonwealth. Right in Mass, so 2135. I. I was a member of the I.G. throughout the whole process. And one of the disappointing things for me is the idea that a building can be built this dense, so big in that neighborhood, just the building right now, without any green space. I mean, I was on that LG for new balance and stop and shop. And there was community benefits that were given with all the construction, whether it was a train, whether it was a maker park. I understand that this is up against green space. But at the same time, all the green space involved in this building is private for just the people that live in that unit. And I don't think that's a good precedent to start. I also think that the density in that neighborhood is getting a little crazy. And we've asked, anytime we ask them during the process, that they talk to the neighbors on Hano street. They said, well, we talked to the CDC, or we talked to this. But it was always a struggle to get them to do any kind of reach out. And I want to state my opposition to this. Thank you. Okay, I have no additional response. Okay, so the I.G. Was not in support. They devoted for denial. They are before this applicant is before this board. Okay, can I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to approve with BPD and designer here. I can have a motion. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? I'm going to put my voice in opposition because I do think that despite the fact that they have proposed 20% of IDB, I do think in the long run, the density is going to have a very detrimental effect on this community, and especially on those residents on Hano street who are probably will not match the income level of those living in this building. So, but so then there's, I'm the only one in opposition. So the motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to go back to a case I called early. Case BLA 132, 7640, 132, just a little avenue. This is a change of art. We include a restaurant, violation, article 51, section 16, the uses for bid, name and address for the record please. Okay, what is it? It's now 109. He was on Madam Chair. He's here. Okay, this is. This is. Okay, this is. Lucius. Yeah, you were concerned with some technical difficulties earlier, I told him to be ready. Okay, is he on? Connor is he on? He should be on. Hold on, I'm not speaker right now. Okay, can you hear me? I can. What are you calling from the 781 number? Rissimbasa, can you please unmute the person who said the said that 81 number then? Yeah, yeah, I sent a request. I haven't been accepted by the. Call it, but I did request it. On my end. Okay, please. Not really. Can I press on the record? Okay. Is this Lucas? Connor, do you know if he's calling from the 781 number? No one's been on either of you. No one's speaking. So he's talking to you on the phone. He's not calling in his number is 617686 number. Oh, he hasn't called then. No, he's on the city's attorney's camera on. He's trying to unmute himself, but. You see, I'm in the name Lucas today. I'll see that. You don't have a microphone set up on you. Miss, let's see. Mr. fortune, let's just go ahead with the next project. Well, well, we thought what's happening on Justin Hill. Very well. Call of the next case. Calling the away 1279390566 East Third Street. This is an extend building foundation 24 feet to the rear and free space in each unit in line with the modern living standards. Adding a walk up some contadio to unit one and red decks to units two and three. Violations, article nine, section one reconstruction extension of an occupant building. Article 68, section 33, Austrian packing is insufficient. Article 68, section eight, the Florida area show a successive. Article 68, section eight, user, welcome spaces, and sufficient. Article 68, section eight, the side yards, and sufficient. And article 68, section eight, array, yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of board attorney Jeff Drego and Drego in Tuscano, the business address of the Leather Beak Street, air and behalf of the applicant, Josh Crowe. We also have Eric Zacherson calling in the architect from context. Just a point to note in the description is changed. We removed the decks, rear decks, so that is no longer on the property that changed our last referral. So we are seeking still to renovate the existing structure, erect a rear addition in the back and utilize lower level space. But what I'm trying to understand, a counselor, is this a change of use from two to a three family? What is it? It's an existing three family, Madam Chair. It's uninhaltable. It's basically unusable because the way it's set up, we're just adding the rear addition and living space, it's already there, we're extending that. If it's uninhalable, was that meat? Well, let's talk about the rear addition. What is a total square feet of that rear addition? So it's 24 by 19 rear addition. Right now these units are 515 to 530 square foot units. The idea is to add about 2,000 square feet of additional living space with that addition. And in doing so, we also have that use of the lower level that you can see, sort of that bottom space that walks out onto a sunken patio in the picture that's the rear elevation picture. What is the zoning district here? The NMF, Madam Chair. So multifamily, okay. Reservoir, too. Okay. And tell us about that basement. Yeah, so right now there is livable space down there. What we're proposing is to have the front lower level just to be common mechanicals and unfinished basement space. We put living space in the back, or proposing to put. It has kitchen and dining room and a half bath, but it has a full walk out into the rear sliding doors that would go into a patio area for additional open space for that of the condo residence. That building, that is not a basement apartment. It's connected to the upper level. So in total, the first floor unit with the lower level would have 1,520 square feet. It's a proposed three bed two bath in totality. Three bed two bath is for the first unit and what's the square footage? 1,520 square feet and that includes the lower level and the first floor. As we go up to the second and third floor, they're both proposed 985 square foot, two bed and two bath. Okay. Okay. And there is no rear decks. Decks are moved up because of gate of heaven roof and asked us to. And parking, tell us about the parking. There's no parking, Madam Chair. Although because it's staying as a free, we believe the parking violation should not have been cited or not changing anything that's already there. We're just adding the addition. Okay. Let's just see. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine. It is correct. They're showing the living on the lower level, but it does have a full walk out to the rear and then the bedrooms are on the street level or that lower level unit. But no other real question, except for I don't have the context, but it looks like the building to the right hand side extends out. Are you basically aligning with that building? Yeah, that yes, they go back further. What did it do? Yes. And what's the rear yard that will be left once with this proposed extension? 10 feet 11 inches, Madam Chair. And what's required? I'm disowning. 20. And your addition is 24 feet and that's how the rear yard gets eaten up with them. Yeah. But 10 feet. Okay. How are any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board Conor Newman with Mayor Soth, State Board Services, Sunday and Soth, I just defer to Judge Mr. Board, or office held in the butters meeting for this project. There were no serious concerns raised at the butters meeting. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have one letter of support, one letter of opportunity. Madam Chair, I'll start with John. You're on. Thank you. So, I just put the right. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair, Members of the Board. My name is John Yetman. I reside at 538 East Coast Street. I live about a block and a half from the Charles Project. I am a Paul Stewart, because they're going to obviously be adding more tenants. There's no parking. That area is extremely tight for parking. Thank you. Good afternoon, Marama. Good afternoon, Marama. Thank you, Members of the Board. Anna Calderon from Council President Flings office. The councilor would like to go on pre-coring opposition based on continued feedback and opposition from neighbors and the gate of heaven neighborhood association. Doing this process on high-tempsity, via jar setback and concerns about exacerbating self-wasp and existing parking crisis. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm Sir Paul Stoller, Councilor of the City Council, last May to flag the R68 violation as well as the continuing opposition comes to direct an opposition. Thanks. Got time to move ahead. Hi, Tom and Marie Mugaisik, where it's 564 East Coast Street. We direct the bodies and we are in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional questions. Please. So given that information, may I have a motion, please? May I have a motion, please? Motion to align. Is there a second? In the for one of a second may I have another motion? Sorry, I was on mute. I was making a motion to approve with VPDate's eye review and specifically looking at any opportunity to increase the rear yard setback. Second, Eric's motion. Ligris. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Aye. I hear. You are opposed. I too am opposed. There's two in opposition with the motion carries. Thank you members of the board. Calling an ex case. Calling DLA 126 164 7 15 me in the street. This is to increase living space and add extension for egress. Portia's at the rear. Violation. Article 55 section 41.1. Conforming with existing building alignment. Article 55 section 9. The full day ratio is excessive. Article 55 section 9. Beside the adjuncts of vision. Article 55 section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz from Adams and Marancy. With a business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. I'm here on half of the applicant today who's joining us. His name is Pierre Joulas. Also joining us too is the architect Andrea Brew from Remake Design. This is a proposal to renovate an existing family by adding additional living space. In an addition on the third floor, squaring off the roof line and adding a new extension of egress in the rear. All while using the existing footprint of the building. This proposal is located within a 3F 4000 sub district. We have four violations that are all pre-existing, non-conforming with this proposal. The property of the existing building alignment. The front yard is currently at 3F 3 inches and zoning calls for 15 feet. The modal calculation was calculated at 10 feet. Our proposal calls for 6 feet 9 inches to the porch and 9 feet to the dwelling unit. This will be a new porch construction with two separate entrances for both units. FAR is currently existing at a .9, which required it as a .7. Our proposal is asking for a .7.4. The rear yard is what is allowed is 20 feet. Existing is at 3.9 and due to the removal of a broken fire escape and a bulkhead in the rear. The proposal calling for 5 feet and 5 inches. Okay. Hold that. Why were you deferred the last time? So we were, this is not owner occupied. So we asked for a URL to the full board. So tell us the size of each unit. Okay. So unit number one will be approximately 1388 square feet, which will consist of a basement in the first level. The basement will consist of a den, gym, utility storage in a bathroom. And that's approximately 559 square feet with a sailing height of 7 foot 8 inches. The first floor is approximately 829 square feet, which we consist of a two bedroom with the living room, living room, kitchen in a dining room and two bathrooms. Unit number two, go ahead. Unit number two is approximately 1641 square feet, which will consist of the second and the third floors. Second floor will consist of a kitchen, dining room, living in a den. Third floor will consist of a bedroom with a laundry and three bathrooms. Total. There will be a roof deck that will be an exclusive use to unit number two. That roof deck will be accessed by hatch and it will be approximately about 455 square feet. And sorry unit number two, how many bedrooms is unit number two? Free bedrooms. So it's three bedrooms at 1641 and they also get access to the roof deck. No occupancy in the basement. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Well there is occupancy in the basement. There's no bedrooms in the basement. No bedrooms. Yes. Plans are fine and I think the model, it's the context fits in the industry. No, no real questions. Any questions from the board? So Madam Chair, this one thing I do want to highlight on here and bring to your attention. There is a, this was a building code violation associated with this property for a new opening on the left hand side of the property, which is slightly under the three feet set back to the property line. So we're asking the board to stipulate that no building code relief will be granted. We are not seeking it and allowing the issue to be resolved through BPDA design review. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Tiffany Gawaii to here with the mayor's office of knee record services. This proposal has undergone an extensive community process. I currently have two letters of opposition on file as well as a recommendation of denial from the Sony Brook neighborhood association. Additionally, the Jamaica Plane neighborhood council wrote a letter with the recommendation of approval with three provisels. This time the mayor's office would like to defer the board judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters to Mayor Zopper spoke. Excellent. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Selder. I'm the consultant for the Council of the College of Maple Flaherty. The Council to go and record and support. Thank you. Okay. Chair, the clerk, go ahead. Hi, my name is... Hi, my name. Sorry, you can hear me okay. My name is Jennifer. I live at 47 Rossmore Road, which is around the corner from this project. I am one of the neighbors, including from the Sony Brook Neighborhood Association, that oppose this project. The most important thing to point out here is this is only a 1,700 square foot lot. It is a tiny lot. They are proposing FAR, which is two and a half times the LADFAR. This building, as it exists right now, which we're using the footprint, is on the property line, and it's only about three feet away from the building next door. The increase in density in this, the increase in height, and pulling it forward towards the street with the double entries makes it even bigger than the existing building, which is also out of compliance. It is grossly dense and oversized for this tiny little one-way private road. I think that the builder can do a much better job reducing the density in there and also getting rid of the flat roof and making it a gable-droof to reduce the height. It's casting shadows on the building next door. They did shadow studies. I'm also concerned that the expansion of the living space into the basement can easily be converted into two more bedrooms. There's a full bath down there. I think that granting these variances is set a really bad precedent for replacement housing. It's just way too big for the street. The neighborhood is against it. We have at least one neighbor who can stay this long enough on this call, but who sent in a letter of opposition. We think that it's just way too big and it could be redesigned very well to fit in. I oppose this and I hope you support the neighborhood association, which also opposes this. Thank you. Joy? John? Ava and Denny? I won with several of the buttons that lives next door at 13 Mehan Street. It's about 3.3 V. We have a signed MOU with a developer that addresses concerns related to potential damage that could happen to our property as a result of construction, including that caused by underpinning. Since we're so close, about 3.3 V. The MOU requires the developer to have insurance coverage for a property. Let me just ask you. Are you in support or an opposition of this proposal? I'd like to suggest that the vote is delayed. If I could, I just want to provide this information for you to consider. We do not get in the middle of interpersonal understanding. We're just looking at it from a very specific perspective. So can you just put your note at please? I can't say it's the most essential thing for me to say. At this time, it appears that their insurance is not in compliance with what the G-Make Complaint Neighborhood Association was asking them to be in compliance with what they would like them to be in compliance. Thank you. Thank you. No additional assistance. Okay. Given the information, they're a quick rebuttal from the applicant. We'll go to a vote. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Ryan Spitz. So we do understand the first woman's representation who is part of the SNA civic association, which did turn in opposition. A lot of her concerns should be addressed through 13 Mehean Street. We've been productively working together with them to addressing all their concerns. From 13 Mehean Street, is this both by the same developer? No, 13 Mehean Street was the gentleman that you just heard from John Abrams. We've been working collaboratively with all the union owners on a mutual agreement of understanding. And the only issue that seems left to be spoken about is the fact of the insurance. We've provided them with a certificate of liability, just like any other group would have. Okay. Thank you. So, and please tell us again what the size of the law is. The size of the law is 1700, 30 inch square feet. It's a 730, 1738 square foot lock in a three family zone that requires 4000 square foot law for just the first unit. And so now you propose, okay. Got it. So may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for the furlough. I just think there's a few outstanding issues that could be resolved and they should come back. Are you punting, Mr. Olic? Gicking the candy on the road. No, no. Here. I will second the deferral because I... Okay. Second punter. Okay. Is there... There's a motion. There's a second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? The date please. We can do on the July 26th. Okay. On the 30th. Okay. And what specifically should the councillor have a response to, to both Mr. Olic and Mr. Robinson? Well, I mean, there seems to be an ongoing conversation with the neighbours of 13 and that should get resolved. Either one way or the other, if they want to stay in opposition, then that's fine. But I think it seems like it's a thing in progress as well as some of the concerns from the folks in the S&A. I mean, maybe when we come back, it'll still be on resolve, which case we won't pun anymore. So, I think it would be an effort to encourage people to find resolution. And my concern is with the lower level, I unfortunately, I agree with... I'd not unfortunately. I think the den and the gym look to be bedrooms that are just waiting. So I think the proponent should reconsider the lower level based program. So... Totally agree with that. Okay. So, I think you have your Marching Board's council aspects. So we'll see you in July. Great. And then the next case for our level 30. Oh, and BOA, 115, 2039, 70 Vaughn-Hullern Street. This is a change of our to a cannabis establishment. Violate Staticle 65, Section 21, uses conditional. David Aguas to the record, please. I am. Let me just check to see if it's Jeffrey, Dan, or Jennifer. Please get it. Go ahead, let's... Are you here for this proposal? Yes, thank you. Can you hear me? Hi, Mayor. Thank you for everyone's patience. I understand you've had a very long day. So I am attorney Jennifer Schultz from Sullivan and Worcester, one post office square in Boston. And I am here representing the co-applicants for this application for a conditional use permit for a cannabis establishment located at 70 Vaughn-Hullern-Street and Dorchester. It is in a local industrial zoning sub-district within the greater Dorchester neighborhood district. The locus that you see on the screen is located essentially in a small island between I-93 and multiple train tracks. A butters of the location are few and include an electronics materials contractor moving in storage company and an antique company. As I noted, we are only seeking a conditional use permit for the use, for this change of occupancy. Here with me today is the owner of the property, Dennis Calvisha, and also the operator, which is a veteran-owned business, CNA stores. This wouldn't be their third operation in Massachusetts. There are other two are in Haverel and Amesbury. And here available. Yes, thank you, sir. So, let us get right to the core of the questions that we have. Please tell us about, I think we know that the cannabis control commission and other places look at your security, et cetera, et cetera. Please tell us about your hours of operation. Tell us about your parking. Tell us about your number of staff that you're proposing and how will you deal with overflow. Yes, Madam Chair. So the out-proposed hours of operation will be 9 to 9, 7 days a week. As you've noted, this has been reviewed and it has been approved by the BCB on February 16. There will be 7 parking spaces. I think if you go back to the prior plan on page 1, you can see those, which includes one handicap space. This is more parking than is required. No parking is actually required for this use. And so this is to ensure that parking users for the location park on this site and not on the streets, although I will also note that the street does have public parking if that were ever needed to answer questions related to the operation and any overflowing security. I would like one of the members of CNA who is with me, Robert DeFazio, Dan Magoon, or Michelle Whitley, to please be able to respond to that in greater detail. Madam Chair, Dan Magoon here, the Director of Security for CNA Stores, Security for Prank will be similar to the operation we currently have in both locations. In Amesbury and in Havel, our guest will enter... Hold on. Hold on. I think the one question that Councillor did not respond is how many staff people are anticipated and if you have 7 parking spaces, where are staff anticipated to park? Sorry, did what happened? Is someone from CNA still available to speak? I don't know if they've come muted again. Dan Magoon was speaking prior? Yes, we have a request on the item. Hi, Dan, can you hear us? Yes, we accept it. Madam Chair, I apologize. My name is Mark. As the Councillor stated, we do have 7 spots on the property and there are public spaces on Bonne Hill and Street and Locust Street. CNA Stores is also advocating access from the MBTA. We are footsteps to the red line at the JFK. All of our employees will be incentivized to take train to work and we will be providing MBTA child rights as well. And how many employees? We will have 7 employees on shift every day, 9 to 9. When are deliveries anticipated? We will be on a basis, both the product and cash. Those will be randomized for security reasons. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plan in serve. Fine. So can I just confirm? This is a fun pillar in address, but it's actually facing Locust Street. It's the rear of the old Bostonian. Is that right? So you're taking down the sort of old industrial buildings? No, so Mr. Robinson, it is located in its own standalone building that exists right now, approximately 2000 square feet. And it will just be a adaptive reuse of that existing building in that location. It is a budding old Bostonian, which will continue to exist. Gotcha. Okay. Okay. No questions. I know it's very well. It's fairly off the beat. Mr. Robinson, I just want to figure out, you know, will there be a potential parking conflict with residents or other uses, you know, given the fact that there are very few parking spots. There are, I mean, there are very few parking spots, obviously, there's seven on site, but, you know, the area over there is a little else. I don't know wild west of the right one, but I know this strip of land pretty well. I'm not sure how regulated or how well taken care of it seems. It's very industrial, obviously, so there's ample curb cuts everywhere. So I don't know if I can answer that question for you, but I understand where they are now. Okay. Got it. Any questions from the board? Yes, the standard one about distance from other civil facilities. We are beyond any buffer zone, and therefore have not been cited for any violations. Well, I know. So I do the closest is on clap street, which is over by South Bay, but it's, it's pretty far away. I agree with Mr Robinson. There's, there's all kinds of parking in that area. Okay. And the existing building looks like it's just a building with a door and no windows. Is that correct? There are few windows in the existing building. There will be a fuse for scroll down. Additional windows and doors will be included in the redesign and reuse of the property. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. George win with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Office hosted a public meeting for the proponent on November 30th, 2021. A butters raised a number of concerns, including safety issues given that the dead in street is poorly lit and has led to ordering in other listed activities. Overall, the applicant was receptive to feedback and connected with the butters and the business owners to make the area safer. The applicant was also approved by the BCB at this time. Our office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam, Madam Chair, members of the board to the McGaprin City Council Frank Baker's office would like to go and recognize the support. Madam Chair, secretary, we do have six letters of support. We do have one letter of opposition and it's from that text drawing company. Okay. Anything specific on that, Mr. Fortune? It's a pretty interesting letter. I can leave it a little bit of it. What's the opposition based on? They do government. Sorry. Safety is a concern in the sense of nature of their business operations. Interesting. So. Okay. So it sounds like the applicant needs to be in touch with them to ensure that everything is. Everything works and everybody's best interest. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve and BPD a designer use that sounds like the service and undergo some change. This petition only. This petition only yes. All those are three. Hi. Hi. Any opposed motion carries your all set. Good luck. Thank you. We're going to try this one more time for Chestnut Hill. Hopefully we get this thing taken care of. We'll be able to do that. BLA 132 7 6 4 0 132 Chestnut Hill Avenue. Change of arc between good restaurant by a laced article 51 6 16 the uses with the name and address for the record. Okay. Is Mr Lucas is Lucas on this look is less. And the ball did you have any info on the owner? So he's on he's on as an attendee. It's the phone number 617 686 335 0. Thank you. Thank you. So I could I speak to the board on this. This was approved with the two life building and originally I was on the I. G for it and during the whole process. They always spoke of putting a coffee shop there. And I think the attorney put in. And it was commercial without food. So that's why he's here because now we can open the coffee shop. I see side of them on food. But the whole process that we went through was always discussed to have a coffee shop put in the building that was approved and built. Thank you. May I hear. In the meantime, Connor, you want to talk through process. Absolutely. So as Annabelle mentions, this was a part of the BBA proposal for two life, you know, redoing the building to make it accessible for seniors. I was always envisioned during the community process that on the ground level, there would be the storefront here. There would be a community cafe due to an oversight either on the BBA's part of the BBA's part of the applicants part. It was not put down as it's being a restaurant. So this gentleman here is built out most of the facility. He met with the right also improved association. See their full support. There's no concerns raised in the community. He just because it's forbidden use in this particular area. That's why he's before you today. So he's not he's he's he doing take out or I'm assuming this is it just talks about the use speak forbidden, which is the restaurant. So he's not doing take out. He's just doing a restaurant. Correct. That's just a cafe was sitting in there. What's the name? What's the name of the establishment? It is sorry, giving one second. It's the. Can you hear me? Yep, we can hear you. All right. I'm so sorry. It's like, you know, I had big problems. Somebody call me and somehow everything disappeared. Well, my name is Ahmed. I'm the owner of in house cafe at 132 just not yet at the bottom. So I'm just saying that to life community. So I'm presenting a house cafe. Okay, so you're doing in house cafe. It's not take out you planning on it as a sit down cafe, right? Well, I'm planning for take out. You are planning for Tata. Come on. This has only been cited for residential. Just for restaurant use and not for take out. Okay, that's fine. So all we can do today is approve the restaurant use but not to take out you. So and while we have you, do you have experience with take out in the city? I do. I own the restaurant for since 2027 at one Harvard ad. One one nine four Harvard ad in Brighton in Austin in Austin. Okay, cool. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are great. No questions for me. Okay, Annabelle. Do you want to any questions from the board? Annabelle, do you want to make any further comments? Your hands are raised. I'll be good. Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? I'll miss the applicant only. Is there all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. If the board members could just stay on for five minutes, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. Meeting is now adjourned. Recording stopped.