 Thank you. You advance the slides. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for January 22, 2026 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen, and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. For members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a type of project, individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We ask that you keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to one minute or person speaker. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. President. Good evening, Mr. Bernal. Good evening, Madam Chair. President. Good evening. floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will begin the hearing schedule for five p.m. for today. First, we have case B08, 180, 0 to 07 of the address of 301 to 305 West Bromford. It's the applicants and or their representative person. Will they please explain the case to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Brian Spitz with Adam Samaransi, Business Adress of 168 H Street First Floor. Selp Austin, joining me today is the applicant Don Nijun, as well as the project architect Doug Steffenoff. The proposal here is to add an eyebrow beauty spot with microblading in a vacant commercial space. There will be no change to any of the other occupancies. Although the main address is 301 to 305 West Broadway, the proposal is for the secondary address of 247 D Street. The beauty shop isn't allowed use within the MFR LS sub-district, but the microblading treatment is considered a forbidden use, which requires the relief. This type of service is consistent to a few other locations on the West Broadway side, as well as East Broadway. Lastly, we have a violation for insufficient parking, as the code requires two spaces for this type of use. Again, consistent with many other commercial uses on West Broadway that do not offer any parking. At this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to you and the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members. Sigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office oversaw distribution of an informational flyer to each occupied structure in a 300-foot radius, which solicited no comments to our office. The city side neighborhood association shows to take no position on this proposal. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you. Okay. Well, that may have a motion. She's a pro motion to approve. And the second. Second. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Bernal. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you all. Next. We have case B.O.A. 178. 8475. With the address of two Pacific Street. The applicant to end the other representative present. Will they please explain to the case of the board? Yes, hi. Brian Kaplan for two Pacific Street. Two Pacific is a single family in South Boston. It was in really bad shape with water damage and multiple area structural issues. A hoarding situation. I brought it back to life. It's remaining a single family. I'm looking to add a roof deck to it. The sites of constrained site. Lot size is 1,173 square feet. Such a small lot that is limited outdoor space. The proposed roof deck is approximately 10 by 16 plus the roof hatch and walkway stairs. For setbacks, the left side is setback feet. Five inches. The front is setback five feet. Eight and a half inches. The back is setback seven feet five inches. The front and back is actually even a little further when you consider the dormant windows. Access again would be through a roof hatch. There's a lot of precedent in the neighborhood, including a number on Pacific Street. I believe 1,4,8,12, and 16 Pacific Street all have roof decks. As well as 491 and 490, the Bihibis 4th, which are very close to this building. We went through the community process and I've talked with some of the neighbors outside of that. There was some couple of people had concerns about noise. I think as a single family private deck. That this situation doesn't warrant the same concerns as a roof deck on rental building or even a condo. This building is not designed for group of young people. It's designed for a family. Another concern was some privacy from a rear butter to help address this. We set the roof back the most from the rear of the building. Again, 7 feet 5 inches. I don't think this deck creates a new privacy issue there. It's being in the city. It's a dense area with buildings very close to each other. There's similar sight lines from the top windows of my building. The top windows of the neighboring building. The roof deck next door. Additionally, two of the rear neighbors who oppose some objections to the roof deck had requested that I not remove or trim the large magnolia tree in my backyard because it helps with privacy and noise. I obliged on that and was happy to do so. It's a beautiful tree. The tree does take away from my backyard space and certainly the sunlight there. I thought the roof deck was a reasonable trade off. The purpose of this deck is to give a family some outdoor space for fresh air and sunlight. Make this homework better for a family. Help the tight site be more livable. Hopefully all that will encourage people to live here instead of moving to the suburbs for more space. Let them invest in the neighborhood and not move out. So based on all this, I think the roof deck here is a sensible option. Thank you for your time and welcome any questions. I would like to ask you a question. Just to confirm. There is a roof deck adjacent to your properties that correct them. Just looking at Googlers. Yes, four Pacific. Yes. Okay. And so like so there is a buffer. There is going to be a setback. Between decks, obviously. They're very close to each other. You know, the way the stairs work. In both buildings that kind of right next to each other. Other questions from the board. Yes, Madam Chair. So it's a single family and you'll be living there. I will not. It's for sale. Oh, it's for sale. It's for sale. But, but it's a single family. Yes, correct. All right. Thank you. Any other questions on board? Through the public testimony. Madam Chair and members, see Johnson with the office of neighborhood services. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. We have a report on the report. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Yes, Mr. Bernal. Yes, chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next. We have case B O.A. 1696173, with the address of 48 43 Washington Street. the applicants and for their representative president, of their team explain to the board. The person within number that ends in 29, I'm not sure if it's looking to speak for this case, you are allowed to meet yourself now. I'm representing 4843 Washington Street, my name is Florian from Stuga, Jackson and we are going pretty much proposing the demolition and building a 60-dormer. It's a two-family, the third floor, we're trying to use it for like additional stuff like this, so put some more stuff on it and we're trying to fix it last year, but it was in a very bad condition and we thought you know what, let's do it right and go a little bit higher according to the plans. We proposed. Are there questions from the board? Just trying to understand what you're trying to do, so there is an existing dormer that you're trying to take, that you will be taking down and rebuilding, is that? Yes, yes. And as you're rebuilding, the dormer's shape and it's getting a little bit bigger, is that correct? It's a little bit higher, it's the same measurements and everything, but a little bit higher. Actually, in the entrance where the stairs are, it's very narrow, so this is the purpose of that. The first one was because it was a very bad condition, we wanted to fix it and the second is that one. So we said, you know what, just ask the city if they give us a permit to go a little bit higher and make it work for everybody. I'm going to answer your question. Okay, maybe we have public tomorrow. Madam Chair and members, Ciggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process or office oversight distribution of an informational flyer to about 300 foot radius, which solicited no comments to our office. The applicants met with the West Rocksbury neighborhood council, which is supporting this application. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have somebody from in the 10th section, the person with the number again, a 29 if you can unmute yourself. Is that person trying to speak? Can you tell? What was the question? I'm sorry, speaking to Jesus was the person, is there a person who's trying to speak? That's what I'm trying to figure out that because the hands raised, but is no immuted to. Is the person. Is there someone speaking ending in the phone number one, one, two, nine? I'm unmuted. You guys don't hear me. I hear you now. Are you speaking in support or opposition of this project? Speaking, I'm trying to speak in opposition of the two Pacific roof project for some reason. I'm sorry. That unfortunately has already been presented and voted on. So we're on 4843, Washington. Okay, so there are no so no other raise hands for this project. With that, may I have a motion? I'm sure I'd like to make a motion to approve. Now the second. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes, please. Yes. Yes. Fairvotes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. And thank you, everyone. That's. Thank you.