 Okay. Sorry. Okay. Okay. All right. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for September 21st, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of quoting virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. The board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So like yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. All right. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Uh, Ms. Bedaparaza present. Hello, Madam. Good evening. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening. I will turn it over to you, Mr. Stembridge. We will start off with case be away. One for nine. 7572. The address of 65 high street is the applicant and was there. And we will be going to present your here to each point. Yes, we are. Who is going to present. It's the hall and comments will be presented. Okay. Can you introduce yourself, please? Sure. I need to adjust and wait. And this is Nicholas Highlands. Madam Chair, I'm having difficulty hearing them. I sure am too. I think you guys are too far away from the mic. Thank you. Can you hear us now? Much better. Thank you. Sure. I'll just repeat. My name is Justin White. This is Nicholas Highlands. We're here from all companies. Great. Please jump right in. Okay. We are the architects and the contractor for this residential project. The contractor occupied homeowners who have lived in this house for a long time. Came to us looking to do this addition renovations so that they can basically add more space for their growing family. And do so much needed upgrades. The one zoning code relief we are asking for is the structure restriction, which is to allow us to install a roof on the rear addition that we're proposing. All other zoning requirements are met, which I'll show. We're going to have a look at the roof on the slide. So existing configuration of properties of three story, semi attached single family townhouse. So it's directly attached to another building on one side. And then there's a three and a half foot walkway on the other side off the back of the house is an existing irregular shed. And then there's a copy line. And then there's also one story deck off back. Our proposal was to demolish the kind of one story structure and deck and then build a 16 foot deep addition. To include a basement and then two levels about that. You would then build the one story deck back into basically the same location. So it's really normalized and approved back in the building gain better access into the house and your yard. And then lastly add some additional spark footage to improve the interior floor plan. Next slide. It's part zoning, like I said, the project needs all requirements to add an FAR is about 1,377 square feet, which then tools up to gross 3,400 square feet. The total allowed is 4,200. So we're significantly under that threshold. As far as all the other setbacks, including side yard and rear yard. We are also in compliance. Again, the only violation we're seeking is the roof structure restriction. Great. Maybe we can take a pause and just see if there are any questions from the board. Thank you, Madam Chair. What's your ceiling height in the basement? It's probably currently about 7 feet. Okay. Great. Thank you. No further questions. Anything you want to else you want to add or we can go to public comment period now. And circle back with other questions. I'm asking the applicants. Are you okay with that? I mean, maybe just go to the next slide. I mean, that we just go through. Okay. This is the demo drawings. We're leaving this. What's the restructure? We're going to be putting that back. Like I said, next slide. This is the floor plan. So the basement. You know, it's going to add some. Some finished additional square footage, office gym, and then the TV area. And then the kitchen. And then the second floor of the additions basically serves the master bedroom. And if you just go to the next slide, that really shows kind of the whole project. You can see the two story volume off the back. The side side entrance here. And then this basically one straight deck, which we're putting back. That allows access that into the backyard. All right. Thank you. Can I take public testimony? Madam chair, members of the board, Sean Green with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And a but as meaning for 65 high street was held in August 10th since that time this office has received no wet isn't support. But as an opposition with that, we defer our judgment to the board. Madam chair, no raised hands. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, so this is a three family correct. Is this single family? Oh, it's a single family. It's not three family. Okay. Single family. It didn't so K to have some but ceilings and the basement. Thanks. And with that may I have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward of motion of approval with provides of BPD a design review. And ensuring that BPD a reviews the Charles town neighborhood design overlay district and provides feedback in terms of guidelines and alignment of historic character of the neighborhood. I have a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better Raza. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1466435 with the address of 889.50 revenue. If the applicant and was there representative president to explain. Hi, good evening. This is a turning into a new wrong. Goons. That can then us law office. Can everyone hear me? Okay. Yes, sir. Just great. So here I represent the tenant of 889.5 chapter. Aminus to be. And our primary object what today to request the removal of a provisal that currently restrict this business from offering takeoff services. So this provisal significantly limit the operational ability for my client to the business operation in this location. In preparing for today's hearing. We have attended the commute. We have completed the community process and got the support ladder from the community members. So first material I want to share with everyone is a vlog line of the business. So what you can see here this business is very small and cannot hold mining die in customers. So the order to run this business successful like the client may need to offer both dying and takeoff services to remain a stable income. And then. For the next one. That's the details about the floor plan. And later we can also show the business pictures from the outside. Here the business is actually located at the corner of both the chapter avenue and Addison green street. Here the picture you can see there are a lot or some of the street parking available for the customer to pick up the service or provide over each. Leave the service for the foods takeoff and in addition to the street parking. Actually, the space has a. The parking space is owned parking space available just behind the building and the details should be the following here the parking and surrounding street. The parking space should be three available here and one belong to the laundry room area and two belong to the restaurant. And the most likely the laundry room area they don't often use the parking space and then sometimes if the customer need to pick up the food from the restaurant, they can also you borrow comfort made the laundry room areas parking space. And this location previously also is a restaurant here over 40 years and has no complaint received from the community or any other department complaining regarding the parking issues. So as you can see here there is also a gas station nearby and sometimes if there is a habit traffic or full parking space here, the customer or the pickup service delivery guy can park their cars in the gas station for like a few minutes. Mr. Liu, quick quick question. So the previous business, which was also a Chinese restaurant, so they had take out correct. Right, so the previous restaurant also offered to take out a service, no company regarding the parking issue for to take out service at all. Okay, I think that's good. If does anyone else from the board have any questions, if not, can we take public testimony. So if I understand it is take out only now and looking to do take out and and see and see. I'll let Mr. Liu speak, can you confirm. So what the business is is a lot to do is the buying service only at this time and we are trying to remove the limit of providing the takeoff service. So they want take out they currently don't have it because it's tied to the prior owner, Mr. Stoverge. Right, right. So I retound the owner need to make the proposal and make the required to remove this take out restriction on the business. Thank you. May I have public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Diana Bronschenko with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. There was a community meeting held with one of buzzer with one of better present and with no major concerns. The Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association supports this project at this time we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion. Madam Chair, I like to perform a motion of approval. I have a second. Mr. Stoverge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you. Have a good one. Yes, we have case B.O.A. 149 1061. With the address of 10 points, the street is the applicant and or their representative present to explain. Hello, this is one. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Thank you. My name is Glenn Knowles. I'm the architect representing restoration church. I live at nine Manadnox street just a few blocks from from the project. Also with us to answer questions if needed is pastor Dave Hernandez and you zel grero who has been helping with support letters. I'll try to be very brief. There's a church. This is at 10 East Cottage Street, not too far from Dudley Street. It's been a church building going back to at least 1963. The current church has been in it for several decades. On the right side, there's an existing driveway that houses a dumpster and also serves as an egress path to the right of way. On the left side, there's a paved area that looks like a driveway, but there's no curb cut. That's what the church would like to do would be to add a curb cut and make that legal. Also, we would like to relocate an existing gate in order to add an egress gate in that area as well. We're going to have to look at what we were missing because of the existing building and a lot configuration is the five foot buffer that we needed. The abutting parcel, the immediate butter is project hope to the left. And they have parking adjacent and they have about a five five and a half foot landscape buffer between the two properties. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing done. Can I public testimony, please? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Bronscheck again from the Office of Neighborhood Services. Flyers were circulated to a butters. The applicant has sent in several letters of support, including project hope, which is a, which is a direct a better. The local civic, the Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative reviewed the plans and understand that they did not and we understand that they did not have any major concerns at this time. We defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay, with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I like to put forward motion of approval. May I have a second? Back. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Miss Barbraza. Yes. Sure, also votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 146 8501 with the address of 55. The NADDOC street is the applicants and what they represent is present to the place. Do we have the applicant for 55 Monodonoc Street? He's on Eugene. I just sent a request. I'm you. I'm not going to be the applicant. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Yes. And I don't know if I am a panel camera. I can make your panelists give me one second. It's going to mute you for a second. But you should see that pop up on your screen. Okay, yeah, you should be a panelist now and you can unmute yourself and turn on your video. Okay, I was having trouble, trouble my video. Thank you, Commissioner. So my name is Eugene Barbraza. You're on a 55 Monodonoc street. I've been living in. Do I just the fourth 40 years? I am. We have a growing family, particularly. I have an. I know that the father and a disabled. I know that the sister who's elderly herself. You know, we find themselves. Living in a rental house in which the landlord have sold a developer. I'm trying to figure out a way to not displace my extended family and provide a place where they can stay in the area and stay close to the family. So we have a house of 50 single family 55 Monodonoc street. We're proposing an addition to make the duplex. You know, the proposed is to have a bedroom on the first floor for my dad who's. Was older and then make a. We're going to try to see if we can put some into you know, a. A chairlift. To accommodate my sister, but she's still able to walk at least she's not as older. So. Mark. I couldn't be here today, but essentially we're asking. I think it would be pretty much the same layout as the existing house, the single family. I am proposing that initial proposal calls for a bedroom on a basement. I don't want to build that as a bedroom because. I just want to I don't want to have any moisture issues. I'm not a big fan of. I'm not a big fan of. I'm not a big fan of. But a bed, a bed rooms in a basement. But I would like to keep that ease of as an office or the playroom. And then we're asking as well to add a curb cut. You know, to make adjustments for the new. I'm going to do a process. I spoke to many of brothers. Like I said, I've been through community for a long time. Everybody was fully supportive. So I would like to board the whole three to help us out and you know. Help us move through the next process and be able to build. You know, this addition to accommodate our family. I think that's a good idea. I'm just clarified, are you a joint to another one family? I can't tell from the. Yes. I am a joint to another. I'm going to do a job. I'm going to do a job. And you're looking to add pretty much the same amount of footprint that you have now. Yes. And is there already a curb cut for you and your and or your. A joining townhouse. Yes. Yes. So the. The crowd cut would be added just to be able to. And then you can. And then you can. With a dick. Addiction. Okay. But so is there. There's an existing curb cut. What do you do? Yeah. There's an existing curb cut for the for my. For my house already 55 and actually. But it would have to be a little larger because we're going to use part of the. Part of the driveway. Towards the end. So it would be it would. And then you can. And then you can. And then you can. To have more space. For access and parking. Let me open it up to my fellow board members for questions. So this would basically be an addition that will be signed by side. Yes. I mean, it's. It's kind of interesting because I'm looking at. It is true that. 55. It's interesting because 55. Is on a. It has a property line that split into two. And it's zone for a two family. But the way that it's built, it almost shows like it's one. One project. So, you know, by right. He. The property does allow by zoning to family. Just for my board members to know. It does. The found house side by side. So, yeah. It's 21. It's. The townhouse. It was better browser. The joining townhouse doesn't count towards that two family that you're talking about. Exactly. According to the zoning. Fueler is Bob. And make go on by any chance. I know he gave us comments, but is he on? I don't see him on. Then. Okay. Okay. So. Is there, you know, are you open to. Having kind of tandem space to allow for more open space at the rear. You know, actually, I'm now that. Yeah. So are you open to. You know, building a tandem space versus. Albuying it to the rear. Yeah. Open to that. That's. Whatever works. Yeah. Okay. Because I know that was one of the feedback from the BPD recommendation. That. You know, you're. By providing additional parking, you're decreasing the usable space. Yeah. You also confirm. Sorry. Which which house is yours? Is it the gray one or the tan looking? They're both gray. They're both gray. And. Sorry. The townhouses that are joined, one of them is yours is gray. Correct. Yeah. I'm just asking because I see a light post there as well. So I'm trying to understand where the curb cut. That would either be expanded or relocated because it sounds to me like it would have to be relocated because. Yeah, it's going to be relocated because the fence. It will be too close to the fence where the fence is so you'd have. Yeah, because. The addition. Yeah, we'll have to be. Sorry. It'll be happy to be relocated. Let's put it that way. The light, the light, the track, the light fixture. That's what I'm the city light. No, that that won't be. It will not. It won't be able to. It wouldn't block your way. Okay. I'm just confirming. It'll be on the other side for the post. Okay. All right. Other questions. I don't have a visual for you guys, but. No, you're fine. Google maps can only do someone. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none may have public testimony. To go from the office and the services. Our office did hold a community meeting made six of two of letters present. No concerns in that meeting. No letters of opposition or support active, but no active civic. Association that area was Virginia Street, which is currently in active. With that, we depart to the board. Thank you. I'm. No raised hands. Great. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none may have a motion. Madam chair, I like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review on site planning. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. And another proviso that. Allows for more open space at the rear. So. To do two tandem space parking. So meaning one curb cut for a tandem. Just want to make sure that's clear. Yes, that's what they have right now. One curb cut, but it's for tandem parking to allow for more open space at the rear. So I'm providing a provides for BPD design review on the site planning. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss better, Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next we have case B.O.A. One fourth eight. Three one eight four. The address of 18, Pleasant Street. Is the applicant and fully represent the present. Yes. Hello. Can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Hi. My name is Cindy Lee and I am at the 80th. I just want to legalize my existence. Pack it up. Pack it up. Pack it up. Anything else you want to share or is that it? That's it. Okay. Any questions from the board? May I open up to public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. I have a question for you. I have a question for you. This is Diana Bronskuk with the Office of Neighborhood Services. We held in a butters meeting in July of 2023. There was a low number of butters and attendance. But there were a few that supported. No civic association letters on file to the best of our knowledge. At this time, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Would that may have a motion? I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better. Yes. Sure. Also votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you so much. And can I ask you one more questions? What happened after the meeting? I'm going to ask him is a Samantha to answer that. I will message her offline. Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you so much. I will message you. All right. Thank you, ma'am. Of course. Next, we have case. Vioe. 148. 4 5 8 8. With the address of 47 to 49. All in crack road. Is the applicant and what the represent the president's wish point. Yes, I'm here. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mike Chavez, some of the architects on the product representing this carry grip in the owner. I'm here with the executive director of the company. I'm here with the executive director of the company. The existing house is a two family on a four and a lot on the one crop road. She had an existing nonconforming, extended living area in her attic space. That was there, you know, prior to her having the house and didn't realize it and now wants to, you know, make it a legal space with the livable square footage. So that attic space is connected to the second floor unit or unit two is labeled on here via back stair. And then there's a second stair in the back to connect to the second floor unit, which then goes down to the to the front of the house. And her only violation on the project was the FAR itself. There's nothing there's no new work proposed for the space. It's all existing and there's nothing. You know, new happening to the space. I went out and double check to make sure everything was up to code up there. And it is so it's just more of, you know, essentially bring legalizing the nonconforming space as it stands now. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions here, but just a comment that I appreciate two means of egress to the attic. I know you've been in front of in front of the board and that's always a concern with extended living space, either an addict or an basement. So thank you. Great. May I have public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Bronchuk from the Office of Neighborhood Services. We held in a there we did held a community meeting. There were no butters and attendants and no civic association has given a stance on this project at this time we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward an approval. May I have a second? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Stan. Mr. Stanbridge. Yes. Ms. Petrofraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case. As you have mentioned before, we've asked the number of people who have requested members from 111 to 100 rivers. And the applicant and though they represent the present floor splired. Yes, thank you. Cameron Merrill, a business address 100 state street, Boston, Massachusetts. We'd actually like to request a deferral at this point. The River Street Civic Association has asked that we flyer a broader community. the applicant has agreed to do so. So it's our intention to fly a greater span of the residential community across River Street and hold another aboutters meeting. And therefore we'd ask that this board allow us to defer to do that. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion deferral. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, the date. How long does the applicant need in order to continue this flying and the additional meeting? Our meeting is October 14th. I believe at River Street. So. Well, October 26th, be sufficient. What would the next hearing after that be? After October 26th, if it would be subcommittee, it would be November 9th. But we could also do October 31st, or November 14th before a full board. I'd say probably November 9th would be best. Okay, we can schedule that for November 9th, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you very much. We'll see you then. Okay. Perhaps at this point you'd ask if anyone else wants to defer on the hearing from this evening. Perfect. Well, we're strong. I'm guessing not. You can proceed. I just figured out that. With that, we move on to case. Meoway 1 5 0 2 1 7 7. The address of 32 are August Avenue. The applicant and would be. Or present the present to each one. Hi, good evening, everybody. Yeah, gosh, I can't imagine too many people giving up their spot. You guys are harder than concert tickets. So you get an appointment. So on my name is Scott Esther Brooks. I am with Pedro builders on the builder for my client. With this will be her primary residence. It's actually we're remodeling the house at the moment and part of the project or the second part of the project that take the existing single car garage. It's kind of a car and a half, but it only has one garage on it. So part of the project was to take that garage and make it a two car garage. The existing house is a two family, a legally-zoned two family house. So we're looking to make it a two car garage. But then because of the fact that we're taking it and moving it back on the lot, the lot slopes downhill somewhat, probably about six or eight feet as you go from sort of where the garage currently is located now. And what we're looking to do is basically do a staircase with a loft and do storage space up above for her and the other occupant of the two family. So what we've gone through all the processes, everything has been approved. What we're seeking is relief from a height restriction of 15 feet. I guess for current zoning guidelines and we're looking to raise the center line of the structure to 21, too. Most of which I think is actually going to be made up, made up as far as visibly from the street by lowering it, by moving it down the lot. It's got a lot of green space and the whole place goes back a little bit and got lots of pictures and things, but yeah, you can't even see where it's going to be from the street. I do have a neighbor to the left and the right that we did get an email, I just a text saying that they were both supportive or had no concerns with the project. So that's pretty much it. I guess hoping to, like I said, just be able to build something a little bit bigger. One of the things we were looking at is based on the size of the lot, it can be significantly bigger the actual footprint of the garage. And we chose not to go bigger. We're originally going to do 26 by 32. I think our 26 by 30. And we decided we would try to keep it actually smaller physical footprint in the space to keep the green space. But we're hoping to make up by adding a little bit of storage up top. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yeah, so you're just going to have storage on this lot. You're not going to have any livable space. It is what we are looking to do is it's going to be an unfinished loft inside. So you go into the building and it's just unfinished or we weren't even looking to drywall or anything. What are you going to use it for? My understanding is it's just storage. I'm like I said, I'm the builder, but my understanding is it's just storage space for the properties. If you saw her in inside of her bread. OK, and it's 21 foot 9. Correct. Yeah. Thank you for the questions. Public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Brancheck from the mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This project did complete the subcommittee community process by flyering the abutters as well as reaching out to the West Village Neighborhood Association for them to share amongst their membership. We did not receive any statements, just a few clarifying questions for the two week comment period. At this time, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. No raise hands. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a proposal that it undergoes BPD a design review for site planning only to ensure permeability of the surface. Yeah, the second. Second, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Betta Baraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Appreciate your time. Thank you. Next, we have case B O A 144, 1910 with the address of 25 New ring press. Is the applicant and or the representative president to explain. Yes, my name is Ivan Hernandez. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're proposing for the project. There's a on vestibule to the house. Right now, we have existing platform and steps on the front of the house. And the owners don't have any cold space or room inside. It's a typical colonial setup. You come in and the stairs are very close to the front door. There's no closets on either side. So one of the other problems they have is that the entry area is very cold in the winter time. And by creating this vestibule, which is pretty common, a nillion present, they can create a cold and shoe space. Plus also be able to have a little bit more than energy efficient building as far as trying to keep the space warm. It's basically a vestibule with glass around it. I believe if you scroll down to the proposed plan, you'll be able to see both existing conditions and proposed conditions. I think there's only one page. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Branchek with the office. You're a Connor tonight. I am. He sends his deepest regrets for not being here. This project to go towards the Jamaica Plane neighborhood council following a community meeting with with the zoning committee on June 21, 2023. They recommend approval of the applicants request. At this time, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no waste hands. Thanks. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better browser. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, we have case of the away. One four nine six four zero nine. The address of 38th second more street. Is the applicant and what they represent the police. The police. The police. The police. The police. The police. The police. The police. Hi. I'm Annette Becknachtigel from the group of architects representing homeowners. You call her and Jacob tech. This is single residents in Rosendale. We are here. Someone to survey. So we are removing existing. We are here. I'm are here. Addition in the back. And we are proposing a full. To story edition. We are also proposing a chair dormant on the overexisting house. And the rear porch. If you go to the last sheets. It's the three reviews. Can you show you a little bit? Last sheets. go back up to the sweetie views. Yeah, just a stay there. So existing on the left. So we're proposing on the back mostly we have a full height addition that we're expanding the upper, we have a mudroom on the first floor and expanding one of the bedrooms to be a master suite. So we're not increasing the bedroom count. We only have three bedrooms and we're also doing a rear porch. So it's going to be a landing on the first level and a screen porch in the back. We are also doing a shed dormer over part of the house that is very just a very shallow ceiling height. And we're also doing some exterior improvements. So we're providing us a nice landing in the front, stripping down the vinyl siding and just matching it to the rest of the street. If you go back please to the survey or the first sheets where we're showing the site plan, then we're showing the violations. The building is actually not oriented parallel to the site and it's on an angle. So we pretty much it's quite a hardship to build anything on that lot. It's any addition violates something. So the rear addition violates site setback and rear setback, also the shed dormer. And then also we have an FAR violation that right now is 0.48 and we're quizzing it to 0.62 with only added 440 square foot. Do you have any questions? Sorry, any questions from the board? No, I don't have any questions. If we have public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. Diana Brancheck from the neighbors from the Office of Neighborhood Services. This project had a a better meeting earlier in August. We really had one a better and however received about seven letters of support. It was shared amongst West Village Neighborhood Association membership. We do not receive any other any other additional statements and defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'm going to put a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review. I see this as a modest addition. The applicant has neighborhood to port and the reason why I'm putting forth that motion. Do I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. His better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Good evening. Next, we have case B.O.A. 149 23659. The address of 25 Orioles Street. Is the applicant and or the representative president or explainer? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Board Member Beto Baratza. Board Member Stembridge, Attorney John Pogini on behalf of the applicant and Homeowner at 25 Orioles Street. Representative with a request for a curb cut to provide two off street tandem parking spaces. This property is located on one of six thousand sub zoning sub districts. However, the lot size 4,668 square feet. It is currently zone is a two family. It's always been zone is a two family. The zoning changes affected that came much later. So what they're looking to do is provide two off street tandem parking spaces for their house. It is adjacent to one of the violations within five foot of a lot line. However, if you look at the plan before you, there is a driveway to the house to the right of 25 Orioles Street that is on that same side. This is a big, captured street. We've went through a community process. It's kind of a history here because this initially went through a process a while back. I think Jack Duggan was the ONS coordinator at that point. And the notices never got sent to our client. They got sent to a wrong address. So rather than ask for reconsideration because it got dismissed for a failure for anyone to show up, we just went through the process again and received it received the about of support as well as West Rocks for a neighborhood council support as well. But I'm here to answer any questions that anybody has. Any questions from the board? I don't have any questions. I just want to confirm. So the curb cut on the right side does not belong to you. That belongs to the house next to you. And you're looking to put a curb cut where? To the left of that, Madam Chair. Left of that. Okay. So where there's grass right now? Yes. Okay. Any questions? Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. Can I have full the testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair. Dean Hudson from the Office of Neighborhood Services, the West Rocks, really. As John stated, this has already made through. This was a matter of just kind of re-upping and making sure that everyone was on the same page. This did pass the West Rocks for Neighborhood Council with flying colors. We defer all judging to the board. No raised hands. Thank you. Okay. Ma'am motion. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward of motion of approval with a provisile that the two tandem spaces be made so that the first park car is not on front yard. So to make the tandem space deeper from what is shown in the plan. Okay. And that's that's that's very acceptable to us on this bed of rats. Thank you. Because currently would be front yard parking if you fit two cars. We can definitely push it back. Okay. All right. May I have a second? Thank you. It's better. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Enjoy the rest of the night. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 149 2091 with the address of three art more words with the applicant with the applicant and will they represent the president? Who's plan? Yes. Good evening. My name is Daniel Ran. Good evening. Madam Chair and members of the board. My hope is to be able to put two parking spaces along the side of my home. My wife and I have lived here since 2009. There was actually a permit for this exact job that was approved in 2003 six years before moved in. Not sure why it wasn't moved on, but we wish it was. Yes. But yeah, I mean, I guess that's pretty much the extent of it just looking to put in two parking spaces along the side of the home. Sorry, the limitation was that we didn't have the five feet of space. Okay. And so just since this was asked previously to confirm that you would not be using the front yard for this. That's correct. Yes. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I just want to point to Bob Dominguez from BTD. He stated that it's a little tight, but it does work from a BTD perspective. And he recommends a approval with BPD design review. For the project that we just saw, Bob's concern was front yard parking. And therefore that's why I made that previous recommendation. But the two projects are very similar. So I just wanted to put that in front. Yes, that's also why I asked about the front yard in this case. But you can see that there's the BPD made contrary recommendation. Yes. Okay. Yes. Yes, for the record they recommended denial, correct? Correct. And with the previous project as well. But Bob Dominguez have spoken on these projects. And we're just weighing out whether neighbor's support these projects, whether there's existing precedent on the street. And as it can be, that's why we're making these recommendations. Was that man have public testimony? Uh, can you name your manager, Dan Hudson, again, from the mayor's office, neighbor's services, the West Rocks, we laid on. We did hold the butter's meeting for this project. No questions or concerns were presented by neighbors at the time. This was also passed by the West Rocks, the neighborhood council in Adams. So we deferred judgment to the board. Thank you, madam. I have no raised hands. We have a motion. Madam chair, I'm going to put forward a motion. With a provider that undergoes BPD design review to accommodate Bob Dominguez recommendations. A motion of approval. I just want to make sure I didn't hear that. A motion of approval with BPD design site review. I have a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 148. 04.64. We're the address of 44.1.4. Is the applicant's and where their representative presence was planned. I'm Mary, are you on or your representative? Can you raise your hand? I'm on. I don't want to do have a hand raise. I'm going to make your panelists. Once you see that a parent is screened. Can you press accept and unmute yourself? No one can you. Can you hear us? Can you hear me? We can hear you now. Yes. We asked about other folks. Don't share their screen. Okay. Perfect. It says no on but it's me. You're a U.S.A. Sorry. It's my son's name. But it's me. You're a U.S.A. We're asking that you not share your screen. That was the request. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. So I'm not good at these things just that bear me please. Okay. So I should say share screen. I should say no to it. Right. I think we have the question. We're going to have to get our plans back, Madam Chair. I had to take hers off. The staff might need a moment to get the plans back on. Okay. There you go. Okay. How can you see me? I want you to start the video. Oh, perfect. Okay. I'm just going to move to a better lighting. So you can see me once again. When you're ready, if you want to just walk us through your request. Yes. Sure. Good evening. My name is Liura Yu-Shei. I've been living at 44 Blanford Road for the past 25 years. I live at the first floor at the beginning with two bedrooms. And as my family grew larger, we moved to the second floor, which has double the bedrooms. And over the years, my kids have grown up and they're attending college. My plan is to move back downstairs to the two bedroom and extend the basement to the first floor. So I would have room for them when they come back to visit and by renting upstairs to be able to pay for their college. I have four kids in college as of now. And so what are you planning to do in the basement? Extending the basement to the first floor, adding two bedrooms and a full bathroom. To the basement. Correct. Okay. Questions from the board. She said adding two basement sort of floor, but I see notations for three bedrooms on the basement. Do we have the wrong plan? That's the plan that I'm seeing right now in front of the basement. We're all seeing it. I know, but it could be that the wrong plan was put up because this was revised three times. The original plan was for three bedrooms. Then the architect realized and the contractor that is not the possibility. So it's reduced to two bigger bedrooms. Okay. And so you have two bedrooms in the basement and then you have a living room in the basement. What's on the first floor? Two bedrooms. I don't have first floor plans. Yes. Two bedrooms, sunroom, dining and a living. And your kitchen is on the first floor? Correct. Okay. And what's the ceiling height? Do you know? Honestly, I don't. But I know, as far as I know, it's the right size. I guess by the contractor. And if you're in the basement, how many ways can you get out? There's two ways. Okay. Great. No further questions. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Can I have public testimony? Yes. Good afternoon. Evening, rather Madam Chair, members of the board, Franklin Dosa here also, Brightly Aeson to the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Here to testify that we have the applicant flyer, the abutters as well as contact the civic association for the area, the Brighten also. Improvement Association. We did not hear anything back from the butters. And they presented to the Brighten also and improvement association at their pre that they're just that their past meeting and received their approval. I believe that the BAAA zoning chair, Annabella Gomes is on to testify as to the BAAA stance at this time. Would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Annabella. Here, Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabella Gomes and the Brighten also, improvement association. Would like to go on record as a board of keeping a long term resident here in the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no, oh, sorry, I have another handbrake Kendra. Hi, can you hear me okay? Yes, ma'am. Sent in an email earlier today about my parents that are abutters behind this home at 58 Union Street. They didn't receive any notifications. We heard about this from a neighbor. There is a shed that's in the rear of the property that's encroaching on the neighbor's behalf at 42 Bluntford. I understand ISD was out there, but there were no permits that were pulled for the construction of that shed. So we find it. The encroaching needs to be dealt with and the safety of the way that the unit was built needs to be dealt with as well. So I would like that to be addressed on the record as how that's going to be fixed. We otherwise aren't in opposition to the basement being built out. Thank you. Would the applicant like to address that? Yes, I am aware of this issue because honestly, when we did this, I had no clue. We had to pull a permit. The contractor that did this, I've been in contact with him, is ever he's coming back to fix it. Also, I spoke to Peter Kenny yesterday. And I told him that I am going to, I really didn't know. I thought if I hired a contractor, he would know the sizing and how he should be done. But apparently he didn't do it for a job, but he's kind of like to fix it. So I am honest. It's not that I'm ignoring it. Thank you. So you'll continue to work with your neighbors on that. Any other questions from the board? No, no further questions. But Kendra is and it seems like she's addressing it through ISD in terms of violations and so forth. So I think we'll make a recommendation specifically on this application. Correct. We have motion. I like to put forward a motion with a prolyzo that there'll be no building code relief granted. A motion of approval. Correct. With a motion of approval with a prolyzo. Correct. Sorry about that. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Yes. What the actual. Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Can I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better. Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Next we have discussions. Every open this time. Every bonfire. First three advocates. Be away. One four four eight two four six. With the address of 24 comments. Is the applicant and what they're representing the present source function? Yes, we are. Thank you. This is Scott Perry 24 common street. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. The proposed project is a curb cut on the back alley behind our house. That proposed curb cut will be on L Wood Street. And will allow us to add one off street parking spot on a street that does not currently have on street parking. So there'll be no loss of on street parking with the curb cut. Submitted plan has a 10th. That would still have similar fencing tree canopy. I don't think the visual would be materially changed for neighbors. Our immediate block has lost a number of parking spots. So looking for some relief with this off street parking to help ease return from work and kids activities, etc. We have neighbors down the street 20 common street that have a larger driveway. So believe there's some precedence there around the street. We received feedback on the prior hearing related to car headlights impacting neighbors on on L Wood Street. We recognize that reality of entering the spot at night. But want to make it clear that we would not be coming and going at all hours with the use of the parking spot if granted. And then we received feedback related to a concert around snow removal. We believe that we have sufficient additional space in the area to place removed snow within our patio rather than any public area. So we've worked with our neighborhood liaison, Sean Brie, and to reach out to those that expressed opposition. The prior hearing ended on here. Here back from them. So at this point, we're just hopeful that we can move forward with the project. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board. Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam, I'm Jan. Sorry. Madam, Jan, members of the board, Sean Brie, and have it the mayor's office and neighborhood services. In about his meeting was held for 24 common street on June their 13th since then this office has received five letters in support and five in opposition. Most residents in opposition with directed buttons of L. Wood Street. The concerns were that L. Wood is being a dead and filing snow removal on L. Wood Street. Possible gas late possible removing of the gas light pole and privacy of neighbors across from the curb cut. The child son preservation society also did reach out as well in opposition. I forget if I made mention but since then this office has received five letters in support and five in opposition. And with that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Have two raised hands Melissa. You had any testimony. Yes, thank you. Melissa Brennan from H. Chestnut Street. I spoke on the last meeting. We were going to try to talk to the neighbors. We were just waiting on one of our family members. She was trying to reach out to the Boston Fire Department where this is a fire lane. It's actually a street not an alley. She's been hospitalized and I told Sean this she's still in the hospital since last week. So that's kind of delayed any conversations we've been able to have with the fire department and then weighing in on this as possible. We don't know what spots they're talking about that they've that have been lost by common street. And I think that's Sean's looking to that as well. We think they might have just been temporarily used by Boston water and sewer for some lead pipe replacements. Sean's also been in touch with B. T. D. about possibly relooking at the resident parking situation in Charlestown because the whole town thinks that the resident parking situation is not good for actual residents. I believe this is a historic overlay district as well because this is right by the training fields. And the current plan, Charlestown plans to scourge as curb cuts on public streets. Again, this is only going to affect the residents of L Wood Street. This is going to be a nuisance for them. A safety issue for them. This is right in their front yard as you said before Madam Chair and I would ask that we either defer this again or you oppose this please. Thank you very much. Yep, Mary. Hi, this is Mary Dirty. So I actually live on a Wood Street and for those of you that don't know, a Wood Street is a dead end street off of another dead end street. So it's very, very quiet neighborhood. There's only six houses on a Wood Street. I've lived here for 58 years, so I know it very well. Um, you know, the fact about the lighting, my sister lives in the unit that would be directly across from this curb cut. And the elevation of our building slopes down so her windows are extremely low. And this street never gets any sunlight during the daytime. So when it's icy out the ice stays there for very long lengths of time. And you know, this concerns about the car slipping on the ice going through my sister's bedroom window never mind the lights. And I honestly think the street is just too narrow. The people that do have a curb cut who have had it for quite some time have a much larger space. They probably have double the space than this house has. So I don't think you could compare one spot to the other spot. It's like night and day. And I really wish that the board would consider, you know, opposing this because I really don't feel that this is a good situation. Thank you. Thank you. And Mary. I'm the director about of that Mary's talking about. She pretty much said exactly what you know, I was going to mention the street is a sheet of ice from, you know, the first snow until, you know, the first sinus spring because it doesn't get any sun at all. So that's my biggest fear that, you know, pulling out of that. Yeah, there's not much of a swing in that, you know, coming out and, you know, you know, people's breaks don't work all that great. And, you know, I could get a car coming through my bedroom. You know, unintentionally, you know, but it does happen. You see it all the time. So that's my biggest fear. So again, I'm asking you to, you know, oppose this. I'm sorry. I don't know if you can answer this. Do any of the houses facing L would have their own parking? Like are there besides the one that you mentioned on common common street? Are there any others with curb cuts? The one on the other one on common street has the parking that also faces out what to that's two doors down. That's correct. It's a similar, it's in a similar location relevant to L would as ours. Right. And I think it was better as I answer my other question, which is none of the houses facing L would have. Right. None of the houses on a wood other than the one that was just spoken about that is too wide exist. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. I'm not mad. Sorry. Bob the me go did make a recommendation. It's suggesting that the curb cut be 12 feet to ensure better access and egress. Okay. Just to focus up. I know I'm not. I know I'm not. I know I'm not. Norm did that come in separate from his from the. From his Tuesday, September 5th memo. Because I have the Tuesday, September 5th memo and I don't see his recommendations. I think that would have been from last month, right? Whichever month they already presented. It was a group of communications earlier and this one. Uh, I think that's a good one. I can't tell you any of the email dated of August or August 17. Okay, so it was from a prior hearing. Okay, thanks for that clarification. Just wanted to make sure I miss anything. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam chair, I I would like to put forth a motion of deferral for the full board. some opposition of butters nearby and it would allow some time to to hear directly from Bob Domingo and the BPDA on on the project because it is a very narrow street. You would see headlights on the bedrooms because it's so close to the other property. So that's why it would make a recommendation of deferrals of the floor. May I have a second? Ben. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better, Baraza. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. I think it would be useful as well to understand. I understand one of the butters mentioned trying to get clarification from BGB so as we're looking at a full four date, maybe providing time for that would be useful. I'm sure we could do October 31st or November 14th. Whichever works for the applicant. November 14th would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next case. Okay. Then with that we'll move on to case BOA1033851 with the address of 35 Rockwood Street. Is the applicant's 10th floor the recommended person first one? Yes. Good evening. My name is Attorney David Click on behalf of the applicant and owner of 35 Rockwood Street. A single residence in Jamaica Plane. This falls within the 1F9000 sub district. I provided a few site plans. The first one that we have up here is a revised site plan from July of 2019 and essentially what it shows and what the relief is that we're seeking is relief from the from article 55 section 9 with regards to the rear setback. You'll see at the top or the back northern corner of 95 Rockwood Street there's a deck there. It is a pre-existing deck from the late 70s. My client had taken ownership of this property back sometime in 2013. She had done some renovations i.e. had changed to composite decking in the summer of 2019 at which point she received the zoning code refusal in order to essentially make this deck legal. It is as it stands right now encroaching by an amount of one foot on the southern end of the deck. What has occurred at this point if I could please flip to the next site plan. There has been an agreement that's been made between the direct of butter at two Rockwood Terrace which the the deck has historically been located on to a limited degree in order to do a landswap because this is falling within the 1F9000 sub district. Both of these properties are pre-existing non-conforming for square footage. So in order to do away with making either property more pre-existing or more non-conforming the parties have agreed to swap a roughly 35 square feet each and you can see that in parcel A and parcel B and that allows for enough space for the deck to fall within 35 Rockwood Street as well as to provide some additional property to two Rockwood Terrace whereas the parties just by agreement would amend the Exit at A's to their deeds. I've spoken with council Joe Devar from Devar and Riley who represents the owner of two Rockwood Terrace D in Cotion. She had provided a letter of support which I had submitted to the board as of August 15th. I also submitted a letter of support from the other director butters who are located at 31 Rockwood Terrace which is directly to the south of 35 Rock or I'm sorry 31 Rockwood Street and their names are Rust Porter and Christian Porter. Essentially the deck as it exists falls within topography that is unique to 35 Rockwood Street on that northern side which given those unique circumstances were most likely the reason why the previous owner from as far back as the late 70s had designed and installed this deck. So at this point we're just asking the board to move forward on allowing Miss Kroon to essentially just keep the conditions as they are and keep that footprint of the deck which hasn't changed we're not asking for any enlargement. It's essentially just keeping the deck as is in its current state. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. Hearing none may have public testimony. Good evening Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Diana Barancha from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This project had presented at the zoning committee of the Jamaica Plane Neighborhood Council on May 31st and the neighborhood and the committee recommends approval of the applicants request. At this time we need to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Should I have no words hands? With that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Madam Chair I'd like to have a motion. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Peter Baraza. Yes. There are also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you members of the board. Have a nice evening. And thank you members of the board and I as D staff have a good one. Thank you. How can I answer? Thank you.