 you you you you you I and K being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and via video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Vosvin.go. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on screen and you will remain muted until administratively unmuted when asked a question and ask a comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The ordered comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers here for members of the public who are most impacted by the project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to this hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address for the record. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, so please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Before that, we get started. I would like to take a roll call of participants, members. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Olic. Here. Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Good morning. Ms. Bonato. She's here. I just made her a panelist. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Kendell. Madam Chair, Mr. Kendell is not scheduled to sit today. It's Joe Reurio. So Joe Reurio is present then. Okay, excellent. How are you here? I am here. Okay, excellent. And then I have a note from Mr. Ligris that he will be joining this conversation, this meeting at 11, 11, 30, due to an unexpected issue. So this is a six-member board until he joins. Yes, I'm from BPA ICR on. Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Good morning. Okay, to you, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the first order for extensions. Case BLA-8524595 Spring Gardens. Great. Name and address for the record. This is due to expire here. Well, technically not until March 1st of 2021. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins on behalf of the petitioner. We respect the extension requests for our five spring garden street. And Chair, this is approved by the board back in 2019 of expires on March 1st, 2021. The applicant is in the process of completing the permitting and design review issues with BPA and intense to proceed as soon as possible. This would be the first extension on this application. We have a motion, please. To extend for one year pass the date of termination. Second, please. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Call the next case. Calling BLA-911-2729 Chelsea Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on March 29th, 2021. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street. Peace Boss on behalf of the petitioner. Linear retail. I'm on to the board have granted relief just under two years ago for this particular project, which will involve a 35,000 square foot commercial retail location in Maverick Square. They have completed BPA design review. They are anticipating pulling their permit relatively quickly. I was posted obviously as delayed things as their based appointment retail issues, but they do intend to continue with the project. So this is expected to break probably a very crown of summer. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion for one year extension. I just want to bring some attention to the spring buffering. It's a vacant lot in the middle of Maverick Square. I think some attention to the fencing around the property and just make sure it's secure. Well, it's in its current state. Can you move motion for one year, God in Mr. Lins. No problem. Thank you. Is it this motion is there as a second? All those in favor? Motion carries. Building an XK's calling BOA 450351 1181 to 1183 Bennington Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire of March 25, 2021. This would be the fourth extension granted to. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, members of Board Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner, as the secretary did indicate, this is the fourth extension. There is good reason for the extensions that have been granted from the past. The Board grants relief. This is an article in the project for the construction of the 44 unit residential structure in the orange height section of East Boston. For at least two of those years, there were issues relative to the Department of Justice with respect to the prior owner. There was a federal lien and seizure of this property, which prevented my client from moving forward. Those issues have been resolved since the last extension. My client has acquired the property and is proceeding diligently to conclusively permit process. Part of that does include the rules from PIC for a taking that was done in connection with the BPV as well as relocation of utilities in the property and that is well proceeding accordingly. Okay, just know that so this means that this has been a five year process and as you know, we have little stomach for this even though there have been extenuating circumstances on this may have a motion for one year. I'll make a motion for one year. Second. It's in favor. All right. I'm going to vote all those in favor. Motion carries. Following the next case, call it BOA 839-661-111-114-114-Hampton Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire of March 1, 2021. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Richard Lins, 245-Sunderd Street, E-Miles-Folness, and on behalf of the petitioner, Greenline Management, I'm sure the Board grants a relief back in January 2019 for a cannabis establishment. This would involve a growth and cultivation facility at 114-Hampton Street. The applicant is just about completed with its process for a designer review and permitting. We're proceeding hopefully in probably so much. Yes, I've been watching that side because it looks like it's used for vehicle storage these days. So I'm really counting on that, doing what it's supposed to do within this one year. So may I have a motion? Motion to extend for a year from date of termination. Is there a next second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Next, calling the next case, calling BLA-6902677-85 Livingpool Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire of March 2, 2021. This would be the second extension. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Larian's, Coutino on behalf of the petitioner with the business address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. The Board originally approved this application to erect a 22-unit residential dwelling with two office spaces on a newly created 8,000-square-foot lot. The decision is set to expire on March 2. We are on another extension, the Board grant and the extension last year. The petitioner is very close to having the design and finances in place on this. The pandemic just put this a little bit behind in filing. Motion, please. Motion for one year, thank you. All those in favor? Bye. Okay. Any opposed? Motion carries. Lorena, as you've probably heard, we are really looking for projects to start moving along. Now that there is hope at the end of this horizon. Okay, so let's make sure that the applicant is aware of that. Absolutely. We'll pass that along. Thank you, Madam Chair. calling the last case for extension calling B-O-A, B-O-A-822-52871-Movie's Outstreet. This is with due to expire on March 1, 2021. Name and address for the record, please. It's Mozart Street on. Yes, I'm here. Name and address for the record, please. Jason Hutchinson, 71 Mozart Street. So tell us the reason for your request. Yes, we have completed design review. This is my first application for an extension. It's mostly been the whole pandemic thing. It was really slowed everything down. Okay, may I have a motion? Motion for one year, extension. Second. Okay. All those in favor? I have. Any opposed? Motion carries. Okay, I'm going to call the 930 hearings for deferrals and withdrawals. These are the 930 only deferrals or withdrawals. Address, please. 1937 Beacon Street, Board 21. Well, the record calling B-O-A-904516, 1937 Beacon Street. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jeff Drago with Drago and just, I know, it's not only for the applicants with an address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking a deferral today from the board. We did hear from some directors that we had not heard from about concerns and wanted to go over security plan and queuing. So we are seeking deferral. It doesn't have to be a long one, but whatever the board's, which is fit if granted. May I have a motion, please? We defer. Take a motion for deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. The chair is the date, please. We have a date of April 6th at 1230. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930? 930? Yes, there is Mr. Secretary Madam Chair. Mr. Joseph Feister. The address, Joe, please. First, can you add 42 to 44 Shirley Street? It's the feast. I have 42, Sherless Street. I don't have 44. Is that well, they know it's 40, no, it's one address of 42 with the address, Mr. Secretary. Okay, thank you, Mr. Feister. I'm going to call it into the record. Going to be away at 112533042, Sherless Street. Name an address for the record, please. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, and members of the board, especially I want to congratulate and welcome Jean Fernando to the board. Joseph Feister, the law firm of McKenzie and the associate is 183 State Street in Boston. Madam Chair, would you like me to proceed? Oh yes, of course. Okay. I come to you requesting this deferral and I'm very familiar with the boards, the evils on deferrals, but we come to you with this. I just want to get some facts, but I reckon my my client received their the Juke Refuse letter on August of 2020 was proceeding forward with the community process. And then of course, this completed that and this hearing was was arranged. Most recently we received some concerns raised by and I believe the board may have received a letter from the Landsmark Commission claiming that this property might have some historical significance and they want to explore that. So based upon that request, based upon I believe used to South Smith also, this is near the use of South Swinsherly Street as well as the Mayas Loves of the Napwood Services implored upon my client to have come and request this deferral today. So obediently, that's what I am doing. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, before we do that, Mr. Feister, we're into April to date, do you think you need a date later than April was April sufficient? I think April be sufficient, Mr. Secretary. We anticipate at least we've learned that the Landsmark will take this issue up at least with my client sometime maybe next week. So I'm hopeful that they will we will get the decision resolved as you know, even with this consideration. And if we were to go with that, obviously if there was a historical or a Landsmark question, my client wouldn't get a chaed out order in any event. But nonetheless, we want to be compliant with requests. So I think April would be ample. I want to make a motion for deferral. All those in favor? You'll have a date of April 6th at 1230. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary and members of the Board. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals tonight, 30 only? Okay. Madam Chair, I'll call the first case. Calling BWA 106908289 Trenton Street. Let's take a firm as a three family and change of our three to a four family. An additional drawing to locate it in the basement. The violations, Article 9, Section 1, Reconstruction Extension of an Unconforming Building. Article 2017, East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 8, four family is forbidden. Article 53, Section 56, and sufficient parking. I'm ready to understand you. I'll go right to bed early. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board. My name is David Shoy Architect. And I'm representing the owners of A and I Trenton Street of East Boston, Massachusetts. Is that kind of the Swiss reporter, Mr. Choi? The project is to basically complete the the parking level, the low level of this structure. Currently, it's virtually finished out in the local level. And we wanted to complete this project. And we've met with the hold on. I need details. So this is a change of occupancy from a three to a four. Yes, Madam Chair. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height. Tell us about the rear access because you did describe it as a garden level. So I'm assuming it opens out into the rear. And what the occupant and is in one bedroom, the square footage, and our utility separate. Yes. Yes. It is a ceiling is 7.56, I verify that. There is a drop in the elevation from the street level, which is simply on the the lower part of the plan. And to the back of the yard. So you can see that in the section that's depicted on the side elevation. And it is a one bedroom like office proposal. And it would have a separate utility. And there is an heat rest held in the back as well as utilizing these three window openings. That's a full square footage. The square footage is 780 square feet living space. And tell me is this building on our occupators at investment property? I believe it is an investment property. I have worked for the owner. And the owner does not live in that building. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Robinson? The plans are adequate. I do have a could you just take us through the rear? It's a little unclear in the drawings where the egress and what the height of the rear grade is because it does appear to have access to the rear stair. But there's utilities back there as well. Can you just show us on the plan on a 100, which is I think it's if you can scroll down. We just zoom into the back of the large plan on the bottom. On the bottom of the page is a large plan of the rear. I just want to make sure we understand this because it does show egressing through the rear back there where it says existing stair utility. And can you explain how that works with the adjacent grade? It's not clear to me. Right. So when you see the, you see that little mark that says W2 that is the existing window. And currently there is a four risers up from that level of the existing where's the utility storage area? So that would be approximately 20 inches in height difference between the lower level to the grade level. So looking at the plans, I do have additional questions. I'm hoping Mark O'Lick. I will also jump in. Can you please tell me the floor to still height? And as I look at the quote office space, it looks like it has the possibility of being a second bedroom given the fact that it has its own bathroom. So we just want to make sure that everything is that we're clear on what we're seeing. So please explain the sleigh out to us. And the floor is so light. David. The floor is so high that's 44 inches. And as you could see in the egress window, there's no that's 44 inches. So the bathroom currently exists in the building. And our intention is to use that as an office. It's a one bedroom office layout. And this was based on our community. And they felt that that was the most appropriate use of the space in the back. That's been already partially finished out. I guess. And please talk to us about the floor to still height starting from the front to the rear window in the quote office. Right. The floor to still height. Still let you know that we understand that the relief goes with the property and not with the owner. And we have very, very concerned about basement occupancy, especially when this property seems to already be a family. So just so that you know where we are coming from. Yes, Madam Chair. Starting from the left of the page where we have living dining of you one window one that still is above 44 inches. It's approximately 50 inches above the finish floor. And so as you can see in the proposed front elevation that is on the just above that, you can see that window that is at the street level. And then W2, which is a window also at the side access way. That's actually not at 44 inches, which it's close to 50 inches. But the windows that are towards the back for the bedroom, it will be at 44 inch as a new address as a new website. All the other windows because of the site difference. Will be limited to the grading along that side. Madam Chair, if I could. This is Mark. Are there, I didn't see the plans have, because Mr Robinson is looking at them, but I'm curious, are there elevations that show the great level because it's not only a question of floor to still height, but it's also question floor to grade height. And I'm just there an elevation that shows that as from front to back. Even at the rear, Mr. Arleick, at the rear, you do need to ascend up a small set of stairs at the back. I mean, I feel more comfortable that there's two means of egress. But I'm not sure if the intervening space that show them will remain clear for the occupant because it's listed as utilities and it's going through a different space. So I'm a little, I'm nervous, even though I understand it meets the egress requirement of the sil-hike. I'm just worried about the configuration and the use of that, those rear spaces. So what would you suggest is that it would, what should we consider eliminating a bedroom in that space? Well, it's only one bedroom is what's being called out. So therefore, I would eliminate the, I would assume that the case altogether because this is the only thing that's here is legalizing this lower level. I remember it's a bit new. I would, I would just, if I could comment. Yes, please. Yeah. So the idea of, when I think of the idea of a basement dwelling unit, I think of the idea of some type of immediate exit in entryway. And I don't see that here. Like, I don't see a slider going out to a backyard that's below grade that somebody can go in and out of, that's like private entryway. That's what I envision a well-used basement dwelling unit as. And this doesn't, doesn't appear to be that. I'm very concerned with, as Eric mentioned, the going through the utilities. There's also beans in the living room. I think, if I'm reading the plans right, it looks like the support needs in the living room. It just doesn't seem like a thoughtful way to add a dwelling unit. And I'd be opposed to this project. So. Okay. So let's, let's hold on. Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Lina, I'm here with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to run the recording support during the community process. The applicant address most of the concerns of the abuters and also these proposed received support from Eagle Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lina Edwards. The council would also like to go on the record and support. Madam Chair, I have a raise hand. Thank you. Make you been unmuted? Hello, I am a Director Butter and I've also added input. Please hold on. Please, would you name an address on the record? Yep, my name is Meg Grady and my address is 99 Trenton Street. Okay. I worked with the owners as a neighbor to restore the facade. I think that this is actually a really great example of working with the community and the development. I think it's absolutely absurd that we would give this project an issue and probably just so I would say the police torn down so many others. So I suppose that you are voicing your support for this project. Absolutely. Okay, any, what's ambassador? Any missing raised hands? Madam Chair, I see no other raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to support, but altering the clientele plan to allow for a direct, unencumbered egress through the rear to the backyard of the property. No second, motion. All those in favor? Any opposed? Probably both. I'm two, I'm in opposition and since this is a six-member board, this motion does not carry so it's been denied. Okay. On the next case, calling via late 113 8961 147 to 149 Charl Street. This is seeking to change item arrest run bar and six residential units to the restaurant and nine residential units and also erect a rear-endition. The violation of Article 15 Section 1, the Florida area, so it's not a good access. Article 19 Section 1, the side job is insufficient. Article 20 Section 1, the rear yard is insufficient. Article 20 Section 1, our street parking for the dwelling units is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drago, with Drago and Tuscano, with an address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, with me I also have Jerry Wilson from Calcet Design and the plans. As was mentioned, we are seeking to change the occupancy from an existing bar with, it's also known as a restaurant, this is the Beacon Health Hub with six residential units to now a restaurant and nine residential units. This would also include a historic renovation of the exterior of the property as well as a three-story rear addition and renovation on the inside. Just the point to note, the building will remain, the concourse of the bill. The particular walk size is 3,200 square feet. The addition in the rear is 30 feet wide by 25 to 30 feet and does have rear setbacks on the second and third floor pulled in of 10 feet. The floor plans just to go over those on the next slide. At the lower level, there'd be the bottom level basement, utility area, cooler, coolers and storage for the restaurant, and then the other side storage and locker room for the residents of the building. On the first floor, there are three separate entrances, so there is one entrance for the restaurant, and that would have dining area, preperia, kitten, and then two residential entrances in the middle and on the right of the building. The existing units, as they stand now, they are all between 496 to 517 square feet, although we are rearranging those units. They'll be like right now, they'll be hybrid, sort of studio one beds, but they are remaining the existing units. We are adding new units with that additional square footage in the back. Those will all be 700 square foot one bedroom with an office, and you can see them in the back. The unit three is highlighted right there on the map and unit six. Again, we worked just over the violations, so we were cited for FAR. A existing is 2.42, what's allowed is 2.0 under the code, and we are proposing 3.3. Our rear yard is no change, but it's a pre-existing violation, so it's zero since the building is not being touched and goes back to the property line, although we do pull in 10 feet on all of the upper floors to the floor. The side yard is again attached, so that's a pre-existing violation, 10 is what's required, and then parking, we're not creating parking because the building will remain, so 0.7, so two spaces would be required. One of the points to note is we are getting rid of the bar, so that will become a restaurant. I am working with the community. I can't answer any questions. This is going to be a walk-up or an elevator, and I propose a handicap unit. So we were not cited for building code violation where it is pre-existing. So it would be walk-up in two spots. Okay, Collette, can you show us what the rear addition is proposed to look like? Then move to what the units, the proposed units are, and so this is legally a six-unit building. Correct, it's six units, and the addition in the back, Madam Chair, for all of the new units and the rear, so that if you're looking at unit right here in the rear, 700 square foot, that is the new unit and that continues up on each floor. So Collette, can you zoom in please? Thanks. Okay. So why are we looking at this as a one bedroom plus office, but this is just a clean one bedroom? Just with COVID, Madam Chair, it was a little additional space for working at home. These aren't large units, so we just want to grab that there's no closet or anything like that. They're just most office areas. We understand the demand, though, and we can help with students, etc. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. Okay. Any questions from the board? I mean, I got a question. Was there any thought? I always find nine-unit building interesting. Was there any thought to, I mean, that big units, were there any thoughts like doing similar size units, maybe more units, maybe some more. Yeah, that's a great question, Sir Gerro, we actually were at 12, but in working with the community took off the top floor and had to cut back the addition. So this was really the bare minimum we could get in working with the community and then, you know, obviously got rid of the bar, which would be, it should make me, I think you'll hear from Tom Clemens who's on, but we really, we worked on this for almost a year and a half to get to this. And so we did have more units, so we'll answer your questions. So Okay, any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam, good morning, Madam Chairman, that may as offices and neighborhood services. On behalf of my colleague, Cheney Spindler's all would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam here, I have one raised hand. Thank you. Right, Madam Chair, members of the board, please be seated. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Awesome, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Kennedy, Avery with Councillor Boxle, this. The Councillor would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Bolley, Councilor Savi George's office, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have three letters of support from various retailers that are next to this project. Thank you. Given that information, I'll may I have a motion, please? Motion or crew with BPD, a design review. I don't know if we have jurisdiction on this show, because it's being held. I just confirm that we do want them with a bedroom plus plus possible bedroom slash office, but do we just want it as a larger one bedroom? And anybody can pop in? Yeah, I mean, I don't have, but how big of those offices, Attorney Dregor? A little more than half the size of the bedroom. No, it's not as it is in the air. It was really just an idea for a rough area. How big is the bedroom? Probably a little. We got nine by 11. Yeah, nine by 11. Yeah, so they're a little smaller than that. So they really couldn't, you know, they should be in the bedrooms anyway, but I'll make a motion to approve with the removal of the office to make it more open. Okay, is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Going next case, going to be away 104 6403 515 E second street. This is demolishing existing one-story building erected new five-story multi-family building containing 30 units with associated parking at the first floor of the building. The violation of Article 68 section 29, roof structure restrictions, access to roof taxes, via multiple headhouses, Article 68, section 33, Osterie parking is insufficient, Article 68, section 33, street parking, loader requirement, Article 68, section 33, Osterie parking, loading, no loading area has been provided, Article 68, section 8, additional lot areas insufficient, Article 68, section 8, the floor area ratio is excessive, Article 68, section 8, the building has excessive in feet, Article 68, section 8, the usual open space is insufficient, and Article 68, section 8, the array is insufficient. Let me add the other records, please. Good morning, Secretary Madam Sherrum's Lord Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Guilty and Miller, Council for the proponent Ed Dordin, who was with me, also with me is David O'Sullivan, who is the project architect. Would you like me to take you through the presentation quickly, Madam Chair? Yes, please. Thank you very much. So, our way of background, this site is the former Boston Trawley, self-boston homopholy in promises at the intersection of Dorchester Street in East Second at 515 to 519 East Second Street in the Gata Heavens section of self-boston. The underlying zoning is a multi-family residential under Article 68, the building that is there now is a two-story industrial building, which is obviously non-conforming and covers most of the site. Personally, 12,852 square feet of land area. What is being proposed is to revitalize the site with an allowed residential use with a multi-family residential use with a five-story building that includes 30 residential units and 30 parking spaces, 35 parking spaces on site. The housing program is intended to be a condominium ownership program. Madam Chair, I have no just to go through the bedroom counts for you. This has been carefully revised and processed with the BPDA in the community, which I think reflects the input of the board on other projects to provide good-sized, family-sized units with ample open space. We have over 60% of the units are three in two bedroom units. There are six three bedroom units. There are 12 two bedroom units, and there are 12 one bedroom units. No studios. The open space program for this has also been designed with a post-COVID world kind of vision, if you will. Over 80% of the units have their own dedicated open space. There are 20 floor balconies, roof decks, and pateos, and if you look at the plans, they are relatively small and size so that you don't have huge gatherings, but it gives enough for the unit owners to have some rest-fetched and a reasonable amount of open space. So, perhaps we'll just about the average square-footed for the threes and twos and the ones? Yes, David O'Sullivan, can you speak to that, please? Yes, our one bedroom run from just over 700 to about 9. The two bedrooms are the front two bedrooms, the smallest one, the front right corner, which is just under a thousand square feet. The two bedrooms are larger, and then the three bedrooms are all like 1400 one more. Okay, and all three rooms. Okay, let's go through the room, let's go through the room so we can see all of them. Sure. So they stack into the top floor where we have two large three bedrooms in the back. And tell us about how many of these, I'll tell us about how many affordables. So the affordable program is, of the bedroom count or the total units is four affordable units, and that's broken down between three bedrooms, two bedrooms and two one bedrooms. It's them. Okay, tell us about the roof decks. So you'll see on the roof, Fran, plan, Madam Chair, these are relatively small. I think they're around 12, right 12, you'll see in the measurements. And this is very much intended to be originally, we had had larger roof decks. One is to not, you know, to be respectful of our surrounding neighbors, but also to provide space that, you know, doesn't encourage collective gathering and like it is appropriate for sort of future proofing after the COVID world that we're in. So you'll see them there, there are sex, they each have their own individual entrance from the units. And they are intended to be sort of, cause of who will for those, you know, for those units. How do they access each has a private stair from the unit and they're centered in the middle of the building to keep them away from the edges? Yeah. As you go down the building, they are head houses. We're going to see six head houses. Correct. And that's the relief that also is being sought. Now, you know, this building is Mr. Sullivan said when we process this pretty closely with BPDA design review. I understand. So let's go to the parking and to walk us through the parking. So there are 35 spaces. We are requiring relief for design maneuverability due to the stacker component, um, componentry, which Mr. Sullivan can can speak to. What's required is 39 spaces. So we're only four off. And because this is a condo building with generously sized units, Madam Chair, we expect that the parking will be utilized. David, you want to speak to the program? All right. All right. Handicapped spaces to the right. And on the left, we have single spaces along the edge. There's a couple of tandems on the right back, the kind of handicap that we have four regular spaces. And then we've done stackers along the back 10 spaces. So. Okay. And then can you scroll so if you can see what it might look like from the ground, from street view? Yeah, the first, the first building slides show you collect the elevations from the front. If you go all the way back, um, that is the left elevation, right? So more, more. If you go there you go. So Madam Chair, you can see the front elevation that's of you looking down from the intersection of Dorchester Street, me second. You can see in the front section that this building has been deliberately designed to set back with a front courtyard, right? We are modal at the for the most part, we are, you know, we're modal for the main entry, which is compliant with zoning. And then we set back even further to six feet for that kind of robust courtyard that allows for a widened sidewalk and provides relief for our neighbors. As you go back to the side elevations, building also then cuts into the middle and becomes narrower in order to provide more relief to our neighbors unless a lot coverage. And that was a deliberate move that resulted in some results of the, you know, extensive public outreach support and article 80, approval through the BPD Yeti. And then, well, and if you see that the overall site, kind of birds eye plans, you'll see those deliberate setbacks on the side where the balconies are. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are good. They do show the headhouses for the discussion. Councillor, could you just explain to me or Mr. O'Sullivan to the right of this image? One is the rear of the butter because I understand there is a great change in the site. Can you just explain? Because it's not shown and maybe it's off the page. I just want to understand where we fall as it relates to the rear of butter parcel. Mr. O'Sullivan, you're on mute. Here you go. Can you hear me now? Okay. Yes. The site does go up as we go to the back and the garage is fully buried at the back, meaning those back units at the first residential habits on the roof of the garage is at green. And there's this retainable wall to going up back as you can see there in a graphic section. And then there's a backyard for the existing units up on Broadway. No, the street is like the other street, sorry. The first thing that I was supposed to do. Yeah. So there's a backyard there. Yeah. So in the back, Mr. Robinson is to the back left is the Coast Office. The South Boston Coast Office building with a sort of a downstance ball that down into a pretty steep grade change from basically the beginning of our property like the rear. And then towards the back to the right, there are residences that engage with who have submitted letters of support. And I believe there are speaking in some as well. So what is the area that you're proposing? So the rear yard is nine feet six, which is even further mitigated by again that change in gray. What is required is money. But that's also combined with a compliance backyard because the side yard requirement is three. And we are more than that in several instances and then compliant in others if you look at how we've set the building back in sections. So it's not an aggressive lot coverage to say the least. Okay. So let's go on any of the questions from the board. Is there an elevator in the building? Yes. So where I don't I see the six headhouses or the access to the next. Where's the headhouse? To the on this section that you see on this side elevation that white box right there is the elevator penthouse. Okay. So here's my question. Is there a way there's an awful lot of activity on the on the roof? Is there a way to redesign it and further minimize the number of headhouses? It's really a matter of how they have to connect into the units. The front headhouses we have those two combined for those two decks. If you go to the roof plan but the other four in the back we can't connect them. Lay out of the unit underneath. Mr. Rob. Okay. Now I see where the elevator is over there. Yeah. I don't know. Mr. Arlington. I'm Mr. Arlington. Is there a way to consolidate some of this or move to I think a hatch type. What I was getting at is exactly what Mr. Arlington said. I was trying to understand what the rear of the bonnet would be looking at. I know the elevation change and I know those are about three plus family but I just want to understand. So I agree if those headhouses could be reduced to a hatch I think that might be a better aesthetic for the rear of the neighbors if that's possible. So I'm thinking the same thing, Mr. Arlington. Yeah. May I add Madam Chair just you know obviously we are trying. Yeah this is not these headhouses are not something that didn't undergo pretty extensive. I just want to make sure that you understand from us what out position and because I think you've heard from us before. I like to think to be responded. Well yes yes you know it's an improvement over time so we're looking to seeing the next one with just the ashes you know so in the meantime let me go and see who's here to speak Madam Chair before you go to testimony. Mr. D'Amico is spoken on this one by 15 E second street and he said once again several of the stackers proposed have limited maneuverability in his opinion the number of spaces should be reduced to 27. The stacker space is number 20s 21s 22s and 23s could work due to the amount of area in front of the parking machinery. Okay so given that in so let's just go forward and is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal. Madam Chairman's the board, Haley D'Alemnier's office neighborhood services like to go and record and support thank you. I'm not only chair members of the board I have had a lot of questions but thank you all for the council look like to go and record and support the work to as a community staffers for both types between the mentors and the development team which led to the twist from 40 units to 30 units, one month to 25 parking spaces. As you also may have said before, it's actually about us on the balcony, windows and buildings so as we are there setback this way to make sure working and staff also led to support for the abotters and the people of the neighborhood of the association. Thank you. Madam Chairman, I'm members of the board, Karen Foley, Councilor Saby George's office. Would like to point record and support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan will be after the city council that last Michael Plierty. The council's position of ICCA 68 variances, particularly in residential projects has been clear. The work there are times that variants are sought and you'd consider as a potential hardship. The projects you can convert and revitalize and existing are conforming with PI Garage, a trolley storage facility that's surrounded by asphalt surface into a five-story 30 home ownership unit building with 35 lost street parking spaces. The project went through an extensive community process and garnered support as well as when we did a heavenly association. Therefore, the council would defer to the board and I'm sure it would be a great pleasure to have you here. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have two raised hands. Thank you. Hi, Jimmy. Hi, my name is Jimmy Conroy. I'm speaking on behalf of my wife Mary and I. We are Director of Blooders to the project at 34 Emerson Street. We just wanted to go on record and thank the developer for working with us with us a couple of months and we are here to voice our support for the project. Thank you. Thank you. All right. It's Scott. You've been unmuted. Hey, can you guys hear me? Yes. Please go ahead. Hi, I'm here to speak on behalf of my wife, Ashley. We're Director of Blooders and the Rear. And we want to go on record and support. We appreciate all the community engagement out of the developers. Their communication has been great and it really helped us get comfortable with the project. We're excited to get rid of the trolley, so we support. Okay. Just so out of curiosity, where are the trolley is going? Or where have they gone? Such trolley storage and repair. I can't believe you know, do you know where the trolley repair is going? Yeah. Yeah, I do not know where they're located to. The seller is, you know, also the operator for the sub-host and auto, which is also going away. Okay. So given all this information, may I have a motion, please? Yeah, this seems like a project. I'll make a motion to approve with two provisos. One is a BPD design review that would include replacing the head houses with a hatch. And the other is BTP review to determine what's the appropriate parking design. Is there a second? I'll, I'll, I would second that. I just, I, I'm sorry. Go ahead. No, I said a quick question on that. I mean, the project was taken through the community with 35 parking spots. So Mr. I just want to clarify, you're not asking for a reduction in parking or anything. You're saying they need to hold a 35. They just need to work, get it approved with BTP, is that correct? Well, that's why it suggested BTP review. I don't know if they can. That's the problem. I mean, as I'm looking at this plan, I think there are. They, they have the ability to rework this. And I know this is, so I guess I was just want to make sure we were holding the number of parking as proposed with BPD support. So that's fine. Thank you. Sorry. All those in favor? All right. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. And I know the applicant knows that they can come back to us for board final orbiter. Should there be any change? Jeff, 22 minutes of share. I think your members the board. Have a good. Yeah, my name's so weird. Joe, did you have comments? Yes. Yeah, just during the design review, it's we can just make sure the facade stays kind of the way it is with the balconies of the building next door. And they had a very nicely, if we can just make sure that stays like that. I think. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Call in X case calling VLA 962 337 15 Mercer Street. This is changing the oxygen from two units to four units with extension of living area into the basement. Basement to the fourth apartment. Create a stair outside the ridge and enter basement. Violations article 27 P. This is in the south, Boston, Icon. Medical 68 section 33 Austrian parking loading. Medical 68 section 7.2 basement unit type of midden. D8 section 8, 68 dash 83.3 location of the main entrance. An article 68 section 8, the fluid A ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. My name is Swae La Cowsha. I'm one of the owners and 15 Mercer Street as our boss is our two. Go ahead. Tell us what you're proposing to do. Sure. So this building is currently through story and three unit. A 2.5 story. In four years ago or so we got permits. We are going through you guys. Madam chair. Madam chair, can I can I interrupt for just a quick second? Go ahead. It was a refusal letter that was updated on November 3rd. So the violations have changed. I need to write the read the new violation page in. Thank you. Go ahead. And the whole thing that I just read just regard. This is a change of our from two units to three units in basement storage. A violation, article 27 P, which is in the south, Boston, Icon. Medical 68 section 33 Austrian parking in sufficient. An article 68 additional light areas in sufficient. So everything pretty much changed. Okay. Please go ahead. Tell us what you're proposing to do. The applicant. Go ahead. Sure. Thank you. So this unit is this building used to be a 2.5 story building. We got permits via you guys to the zoning to get an edition of one extra room that made the third story a full story. Okay. When we got that that permit, I think the parking issue was addressed. We had to go through a ZBA. Kern is our owner occupied. My parents are my other owners. They live there. They never owned a car. They never own a car at this age. And so they've never had an edition in the car numbers in this building as far as we know. The building is insured as a three property, three units. Can you first explain to us how this proposed basement is going to work? Tell us the floor to ceiling height. Tell us how many the square footage of the and as a height from the floor to the cell. And also keep in mind that the relief goes with the property and not with the owner. So as you talk to this kind of keep that in mind too. Sure. I think as the gentleman explained before, there was update to the project. The basement will be utilized as a storage. I'm not sure the plans that you are seeing and it's supposed to be just not part of this project. We're just changing the occupancy from two to three. With this application. So how are you doing that? So currently so the basement storage is for there are three stores to these building and the basement is separate. So there are currently floor one two and three. So what you see is floor one two and three there are actual units and the basement is addition. We're not touching the basement. So is this third unit there already? Yes. The unit is there. So wait a second. So did you come to this board before to change occupancy from a one two or two or two or three? Historically in the city of Boston, really safe property taxes. I just wanted to ask about your process with this board. Did you come in to this board to request the change from a one to a two? Never because we were not even know, we didn't even know that there wasn't in the book as two. And I'm feel we came across some project and they're told you have to change this first before you go here. So that's why we are addressing this now. I can please the dimension the city of Boston property in real estate because please just tell us about this proposal. So they look like they're they all one bedrooms and what's the square footage? So all the floors are one bedroom, one office or closet space as well. It's makes for a small bedroom but I don't it's optional. But one bedroom is each floor, one bedroom, one kitchen, one living room, one bath, and so each each floor has that. The square footage I believe is around 700 per unit per floor and and that is that the third floor that used to be 0.5. We got four years ago a permit to add make an addition so it's now a full unit. I mean a full sorry. Okay hold on please just stay up on Mr Robinson how are the plans? I'm confused by the plans if you scroll down to the first I believe it's called it says first floor. That floor right there it's stamped by the ZBA so I can't tell what that says underneath it. I assume it says first floor but it's showing proposed light wells on the sidewalk and it it's the light the the side the unit is above the sidewalk so I'm not sure I understand that and as well in the reader it says proposed stair up so this plan is for a basement unit but I understand what she's saying so there's some discrepancy in the drawings that I'm not sure how to respond to so. Collective just can show us and speak please if there is one. I'm sorry did somebody else have a question can the applicant address the issue raised by the architect? Sure. What would you see for plans is actually an old plan the project plan was updated. If you like I can share you the plans that I provided the most recently they were provided to hold on may I have a motion for the fall motion before is there a second all those in favor. Hi can you post the date please. I have a date of April 6th at 1230. So please when we we do not have updated plans and we need to clearly understand what the project is so when you come before the board at April at 1230 April 6th at 1230 please also have a view so that we can understand what this looks like from the street okay. So thank you see you then. Calling an ex-case calling B.O.A.107 570622 Roger Street. This is demolishing existence structure directly new four-story four-unit residential building with the Raj in front rear roof decks. The final length is article 68 section 33 obstreet parking and loading article 68 section 8 front yards insufficient article 68 section 8 rail yards insufficient and articles 68 section 8 additional audio is insufficient name and address for the record please. Good morning my name is Chair members of the board my name is George Moran seeming to turn it with the business address of 350 quest board by in self-bositan. Madam Chair members I'm joined at the hearing by the project architect Tim Johnson and by mine and Tim's client Mary Moore who is the owner of the property and would be the developer Mary lives nearby on Ward Street. Madam Chair members there's an existing two and a half story single family dwelling on the lot which is a 22 Roger Street in self-bositan in the Andrew Square area within an MFR multi-family residential zoning district under article 68. The proposal is to demo the existing building and erect a new four-story building containing four dwelling units. The four-story building would have garage access from Raj street by a new curb cut there is no parking on Raj street that would be a standard size garage door and a standard 10-foot curb cut. The garage would have parking spaces for three vehicles at the rear of the garage portion of unit two which is a duplex unit would be included on their ground floor level. The four units are sized as follows unit one is a 983 square foot two bedroom duplex located on floors two and three unit two was an 856 square feet two bedroom duplex located on floors one and two on the third floor as well as part of unit one there's also a 500 square five hundred seven square foot studio unit and finally unit four is a four-story floor through one thousand thirty one square foot one bedroom. If you're support to the zoning violations five lost street parking spaces are required as I say three would be provided the site is located within a four-minute walk of the interstation on the red line. There's a front yard setback violation the building is essentially a modal the rear setback violation owes to a 15-foot required setback whereas ten foot setback is being provided the building is 39 feet which is compliant with zoning the FAR is 1.8 which is also compliant with zoning there's a maximum FAR here two points zero there is a 12 by 12 roof deck with hatch access and there are also solar panels on the roof with that all poles and take any questions that the members have. Okay um Mr. Robinson how are the plans? The plans look good thoughts or just one quick question how can you tell me how tall the building is on Roger Street there is a setback but Roger Street is a little bit lower and three story buildings and some pages on flat and I just wanted to sort of understand the consistency of that street edge. Certainly based on the elevations and the the zoning table and the plans it indicates 40 feet the elevations actually indicate 39 feet from median grade on Roger Street to the top of the roof as I say the applicable maximum zoning height in this area is 40 feet. I'm sorry I was trying to understand the height of the step back from on your third floor or. Yes George this is Tim Johnson project architect if we go to the elevation the light to the setback is 30 feet the building setbacks sets back at the fourth floor is six feet for talking height of 39 feet. I understand okay thank you thank you. There also is a I wouldn't say a lower level bedroom connected to unit two it does appear to have been to grade in the back just want to make sure the board understands that it's not a basement unit per say but it does have a direct door access out to grade in the rear. I need questions from the boy. I understand that from a zoning perspective the height is not a problem that it's 40 feet and that it's a limit and it's 39 but I'm looking at Google map I don't see any other four-story buildings anywhere nearby and it seems like it would just a little bit stick out like a sore thumb in terms of the height even if it is done and compliant I guess that's a good question for you and Mr. Marancy. Yeah I agree with you Mr. Arroyo. I was not sure I was sort of looking to make sure it is the street don't have three-story and a four-story and then the rear of others on board street there are some four-story so the rear will be four-story but it was my original concern a little bit when I first looked at it to be honest that's why I should understand what the height of the street is and how far it was set back. And this is a Attorney George Marancy so the the location here is one it's actually on the edge of the of the growth zone the George S. Doraveneux growth zone there are a number of new buildings both existing recently approved and planned for this area point being I think that we will be seeing more four-story buildings here the fabric on Roger Street and the surrounding streets is changing as I say this is within plans all Boston, George S. Doraveneux so apart from the underlying MFR zoning which sites maximum building height of 40 feet within the plan this is an H240 proposed district meaning multifamily housing with an FAR of two and a proposed we're building height of 40 feet as well so it is compliant with respect to height and as I say I think gradually what will happen is they will in fact be more four-story buildings in the area. Okay I get a fact can we go back to the parking plan the garage. Can you keep scrolling sort of back and forth through the drawings slowly so that we can see all of them in general not just this but every project. Okay so that so the door in between the two parking spots where does that go and I'm just concerned that like a cognitive parking. I if it's not personally wanting to park and find the door that's opening in. Yes this is a the architect in Jones and that's a good point that was really a service door for access to any trash containers or not trash containers but any equipment, garden equipment, anything on the side of the building we can certainly out swing that door or or delete it's not required for egress. Okay yeah I'm concerned about that and I the bedroom adjacent to the garage is a little odd and I just I'm more like curious than anything like is that safe to have a bedroom on the other side of like a three-car garage. Well the garage elevation is at 22 and then we step up with foot to 23 so that wall between the garage and the bedroom area will have a concrete stem wall that will go up about to elevation 25 so it'll be a impact resistant wall for any car. Okay and how about the garage door off of Rogers Street? It is a aluminum frame door with glass panels, madam chair. Okay any other question? Can you ask me? Yes, Mr. Domingo is spoken on this project as well at Rogers Street. He believes that the number of parking space that should be reduced to two due to the lack of adequate and safe maneuverability. Okay thank you is anybody here to speak and support? Chairman of the Board, Hailey Delan Mayer's Office of Neighborhood Services. We like 200 children's support and also note that in just grace of association. You need to please support this as well. Thank you. Thank you. I want to welcome the chairman of the Board and I'm going to come to the screen conference. I'd like to go on my phone and support the response from the English and English Secretary of the Association, which support I decided on an emergency other January. Good morning madam chair and members of the Board, Karen Foley, Councillor Neesor, Sabi George's office. We'd like to echo the sentiments of the mayor's office and also Councillor Flinjah's office in support this project. Thank you. I have no raised hands. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with BPDDA design review. And BPDDA. And BPDDA. And BPDDA. And BPDDA review. I second that. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Well Eddie opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case. Thank you madam chair. Calling BOA 1134876. 10 Woodville Park. This to combine a lot 5,100 of 1819, 1899 square feet with a lot 4,928, 1,650 nine square feet to become one lot of 3,550 nine square feet. Direct a two-story addition and change the arc from a one family to a two family. The violation of the go 50 section 40 4.2. The front model alignment of the block has been met. Medical 50 section 29 and the library of traditional dwelling units is insufficient. Go 50 section 29 to use it all up in requirements is insufficient. 50 section 29, the rear setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Uh, very absent in the house. Rock screen. So please explain to us what you're proposing to do. What I'm proposing to do is just add a change that the occupancy from one to two. Attachment installing the garage in between to offset the parking and and putting up a approximately 400 square foot unit. Footwork have two bedrooms, three bathrooms and a kitchen of course. So what I'm trying to understand is that what these two separate lots are you taking a lot from something else to create the slot? There are two locks. There are two locks as of now. Yeah. And then I was looking to just combine them in that one. So I see. So you're at the end of that call the sack. Then for you're proposing to just add to that existing building as I would you're proposing to do? Yes, ma'am. I see. Okay. Okay. So um, how are the plans? Um, Mr. Roberts. The plans are good. Um, Mr. Hobson, what is the square foot edge of each unit? Um, my unit is currently in 200 square feet and the other unit will be 1279 square feet. Okay. And tell us about the rear yard. What is what a side to rear yard you're proposing? But I'd setbacks off a little bit. I think I have 14, 14 feet on the left side and I'm sorry, I'm not that I couldn't make it today. And 10 feet on the other side a lot. The reason being is because when DS and I built the back lock, they put the fence out of slant. I see. Okay. So this is so, um, so this is rear of the moreland. Okay. Um, okay. And the model, tell us about how the parking is proposed to work. Okay. So there's going to be a two car garage. Um, we've never had a problem with parking down here. Yes. There's a car that there's a garage that's going to fit to. And then on the right with a new addition, there'll be a, um, a small driveway which will be roughly a feet wide. And are you proposing dormers on the existing building too? No, man. No, those are all existing. Okay. How would you guess? Okay. So Mr. Roberts and the plans are good. Yes. Any questions on the board? Is that a pitched roof on the building on the right? Is that what that's trying to draw? It is. It's a picture. Sorry. Also, the architect is Harry McGargo. Okay. Um, any, any other questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe Copper, Joe was a Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. And a Buddhist meeting was held on December 16th, 2020. And it was well received by the residents. Therefore, the Mayor's Office people like to go in support. And Madam Chair, I have no other way to answer. Motion, please. I'm not out of order. Proof with BPDA design proviso. I do think there needs to be a little bit of work with the roof lines, but I'm sure the BPDA can handle that. So, I'll see you there. Thank you. Oh, sorry. Is there a second? Yep. Second. Oh, those in favor. All right. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Call the last case. 930. Calling BOA 113-1824-17. 885 Columbus Avenue. This is a change of our to include 2600 square feet of clinic in level three. The Violin System Medical 55-6-22, the use of a clinic is conditional. May I address the other record please? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is Barry Bach. I'm the CEO of Boston Healthcare for the Homeless Program. Our business address is 780. Allmanian Street in Boston, 0218. Shall we go through what our proposal is briefly? So, I tell us about 1785 Columbus Avenue. You guys run this space in the entire building or are you just looking to add the clinic at the third level? So, it's the latter. So, we are the building is co-owned and we are partnering with Horizons for Homeless Children. The total building is 139,000 square feet. Horizons for Homeless Children has 45,000 square feet and they have to operate a clinic adjacent to it. So, we would only be an operation of the 2600 square feet of the clinic space. So, this is by Jackson Square? Exactly. Yes. The building that's almost complete. Correct. That's right. Okay. And tell us about the clinic. How many rooms, so will you? Let me start for you anticipating. Sure. Thank you for that question. So, we're looking at six exam rooms and a total staff at any given time of approximately five and as you can imagine, it'll be physicians and nurses and mental health clinicians. The overall concept is that there are roughly about 250 children who will be utilizing Horizons. The children and their families are experiencing homelessness and a gym, imagine knee, or in crisis. And so, we're primarily really looking to serve the children and their families who are utilizing Horizons. And so, the type of medicine we'll be providing is really pretty bread and butter in terms of doing pediatric care and adult care both for mental health services and primary care or episodic care. Okay. And again, how many exam rooms did you say you will have? You know, I'm joined by our architect Chris Gowall. Chris and I'm wondering whether I'm misrepresenting. Is it five or six exam rooms? Chris, are you able to join? Okay. Okay. And the nature of Chris is unmuted or not? Okay. Okay. Um, wait. I'm sorry. I can hear me now and very, I'm sorry, I only have three exam rooms and not five. Thank you. There are two, there are two behavioral health rooms for counseling and then a case manager and an additional examination. Okay. And case management will be coordinated with Horizon. Marathon. That's correct. I guess. Okay. Okay. Um, how would the plans Mr Robinson? The plans are great. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, but I'm Chair members of the board. My name is Liz and Hannah from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter's meeting was held on December 16, 2020. The neighborhood has been very supportive of this proposal. They also received the support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. So the Mayor's Office will let you go on record and support. Thank you. We had also submitted six letters of support. Okay. We'll go on. Anybody else? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair members of the board. Karen Foley, Council and Easter as Happy George's Office. We'd like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Paul Sullivan, on behalf of City Councilor, at large, Michael Flaherty, Councilor Thugong, on record and support. You, Madam Chair, I have no questions. Madam Chair, Secretary here we have six letters of support. Okay. I'm wondering if this one needs to be this to this petitioner only. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with the prize all that this is for this petitioner only. All those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. The meeting is now adjourned. We will reconvene at 1230. Thank you. You you 30 and we now have a five seven member board. Mr. Costa has Mr. Legress has joined us. So we are ready to go. Mr. Fulcino. Madam Chair, I'm going to call the 1230s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals? The 1230 only. Not only the clock 1230, so if you can just give me an address, I appreciate it. Good afternoon. 47 Condor Street. Sure. Thank you for the record calling. I'm going to be here. Want to be away 111007 47 Condor Street. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon. Lawrence Coutino from Richard Linsley's office with a business address of 245th Street in East assistant. We're seeking a short deferral for 47 Condor Street in order to have ISD review plans we plan on lowering the height and producing some units. And has. Oh, and this is this is this your second request for deferral? Yes, Madam Chair. May I have a motion please? Motion to deferral. Second job. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries the date, please. We'll have a date of April 6th at 1230. Thank you. Any other deprosos with rivals with 1230 cases? 17-34 winter street. Mr. Secretary. Will the record. Will the record calling. D.O.A. 1002790 17 to 33 winter street. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Any opposed? Motion carries. Any other deferrals with 1230 cases? Any opposed? Motion carries. Any other deferrals with travels for 1230 cases? Is Danny Road on? Mr. Barry, you can go. Mr. Barry, you move before with Danny Road. Madam Chair, you on mute, Mr. Barry. Mr. Barry. Mr. Barry, you move before with Danny Road. Mr. Barry, you move before with Danny Road. I don't see their name. I don't see them. I think he's frozen. I don't think it's worth. I'll hold off on that. Any other deferrals with travels for 1230? Yes. One for 4 Danny Road. 30 hearing. We are not. We're moving to defer on that. Yes. 4 Danny Road. 4 The record calling B.O.A.105. 6275. 4 Danny Road. Name an address for the record please. So we're having some issues here. We're having some issues here. Let's move on, the agenda. We can always come back. We have a call in the first case for 1230. First two cases calling B.O.A.104. 994 199 19 button would street. There's a companion case B.O.A.114. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. We have a call in the second case. As they said. Mayor Kerry, d lighter welllli had an 가져Mom. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. The attorney is very ringslaw. With me today is Mr. Joshua Wilde, who was the principal at Elevated Corporation. Today we are here seeking relief to change the occupancy of the buildings from a two family to a three family dwelling by creating a third floor additional on each of the buildings. Each unit will consist of two beds, two baths. Unit one will be approximately 900, two will be approximately 1,050 square feet. Unit three 1,097 square feet. The only sector district is the BFD 2000. It's on 21 button which we are lot size 1,740 square feet. And on 18 button which we are lot size 1,410 square feet. The violations with regard to FAR require FAR or night for 21 button wood is 1,3. And wood, 4 FAR is 1.3 and half the wood. With regard to the dimensional violation of Madam Chair, the setback requirement is 5 feet. But well, the pre-existing non-conforming at 0, the rear yard requirement is 50 feet. Again we have 2 feet, 4 inches, which also is a pre-existing non-conforming. The site comes with, it has three parts to base that. Three space bar existing. And we are in talks with a small partial plan next to the property to acquire that for additional part. We are proposing a roof deck which will be set back approximately 16 feet for the trial of the property and will be accessed by an act. There is no living space in the basement, no bed rooms, no living space, the basement will be de-died storage and for mechanicals. We are very closely with the Columbia's Hathavical Civic Association with regard to the design. What we did at their request was we removed the rear deck and we removed a couple of the windows with the rear property and there were a lot of new rear who were concerned with privacy. I was caught there and Jake Josh and we're not. Collette, can you please show us the street view? Mr. Small, you're kind of breaking up. You're not coming across clear. So what I need to understand is the 3FD district was created to respect the triple decker quality of certain neighborhoods. So can you tell us how this will enhance that? We're just, they're currently the properties are two levels, they're two decker and we're seeking to create additional unit by adding an additional floor to both of the sites to create triple decker. The decker is all along the space base on, on button which street. Collette has that. Okay. Is there something you can do about your audio? In the meantime, Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? I don't know if that's the audio. Is there any mute? Are you think I know that I know too? So the drawings look good. There are roof decks. They are directly accessed from the upper level units through stairs, independent stairs and there is a hatch. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I'm voting that regarding the streetscape, this is a, as Mr. Small said, a two level and actually make it three level brings it more in line with the street context. So that's a good thing. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, the board and L. Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This went through a community process last October with an embudder's meeting held online due to the COVID pandemic. They also met with the Columbia Sape, El Civic Association, which is to support this proposal. The only concerns raised during the meeting were the rear decks with which the applicant has agreed to remove. It's worked with the fellow butters on some design concerns. Outside of that, we would just ask that they continue to work with the neighbors throughout this process. And we'd ask for continued GDAA design review, but we'd like to go on record support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council of Frank Baker's Office. We'd like to go on record and support the project. Excuse me, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Follick, Council of Sape, Georgia's Office. We'd like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Maybe the idea design of whom. Second, Derek. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Small. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to have a more of a good day. Calling the next case. Calling the BOA 114-198-115-Baird Street. We're supposed to be family of the violation of the Article Sixty Section 9. Law deities insufficient. It's an amenad just for the record, please. We have to know Stuart Shryer, representing SIVO. This company is called Cindy and Company. In regard to this application, my client intends to build a three-family house. We have a one single item that we don't meet, which is lot area. It's an 80-foot deep lock by 50 feet wide. We have a nice wide lot. We can have a driveway. We have three parking spaces. And units, which are important to the board, are going to be about 1120 square feet. There are going to be three bedroom units, nice, family-sized units. Mr. Vowe builds beautiful homes. He's built a couple of homes over on Wilson Street. Really a credit to the neighborhood where he builds. So a couple of questions, Mr. Shryer. Any basement living? Are there roof decks proposed? There is no basement living. There is a plan sheet A2, which shows no basement. There are no, nothing in the basement. There are no proposed roof decks. There's one last thing I'd like to add. There's 12, three deckers on this street. And the only other house on the street is a four-family. Okay. It fits in perfectly with the neighborhood, too. Okay. And can you see a rendering office? Please, Collette. Mr. Ferrer, are these rents or condos? As of now, I have to assume that they're going to be for rental, that's what he's done with his other units. I don't believe that he has any intention to make him into condos. How? He has built houses and he's rented them out. How would the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans look good. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support a disposal? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Because we're going to have to know Madam Chair, members of the board. Whitney saw us to hear what the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. I held 12 letters meetings for this property. And we'd like to go on the record and support. Thank you. I'm sure I have no hands. Can we have a motion, please? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, take barriers back on, I don't know if the deferral I don't know if I need them to wait. That's good for it. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Can you hear me correctly now? Yes. I apologize. I've been having some issues with my internet at my house, the project that I'm looking forward to. Let me just go and Mr. Ferrer, and be called into the record real quick, Call the bill away 1056254D any road. Name and address, further recognition. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. John D. Barrylar, the law office is John D. Barry. At 400 granted out of the Milton Mass, there were 2186. We're requesting a deferral on this project. It's still in the middle of the community process. Due to some miscommunication, it was scheduled today by accident. So we're looking for deferral data. I'm hopeful that will be done with our community process by that date. What was your permit for all? Zero second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please. You'll have a date of April 6th at 1230. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. The next case calling VOA 113028225BasterSqueade. This is directly new multi-family for you that dwelling, population, article 65, section 41, parking is insufficient. Article 65, section 8, a multi-family has been. Article 65, section 9, complaining is insufficient Article 65, section 9, a lot of Dankyoul is insufficient, Article 65. Article 65, section 9, the plurier ratio is excessive, Article 65, section 9 spend Criminal offense. Article 65, section 9, extension 1, the bill стоит casa in storage, the full house is. Article 65, section taking. Article 65, section 9 US in sufficient. Article 65, section 9, repkapate into the patient. In a lot of more than D, the account written on Tsa breakup. and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board, and I look vanilla from Paul Jeannie in Northern with the business address of 10 Forbes Road on behalf of the property owners. And with me today is Peter van called the architect. Oh! So tell us what's being proposed. Yes Madam Chair, we're here today seeking variances for 25 Baasah in George Esther in order to erect a new three family residence with Royal Ostrich Park and Spaces on the 3436 square put lot, which is in a 2F 5000 zoning sub district. The violations that we are seeking variances for today are Article 65 Section 8 use regulations. It being in a 2F 5000 zoning sub district, three families are not in allowed use. The current floor. Sorry, please forgive me. So you were advertised as four units, you're down to three. How have your violations changed? On the only violation that we don't currently have is a insufficient parking, but the parking still has a design and maneuverability violation, but all the other violations remain the same. Okay, so please talk us through. Are these one, two, three bedrooms? What's going on? Yes, so the current property is in a state of disrepair and the new property owners intend to demolish it in order to build three family residents. The units will be, unit one is a two bedroom, one bathroom, 1,475 square foot unit. Unit two is a two bedroom, one bathroom, 1,150 square foot unit. And unit three is a two bedroom, two bathroom, 1,486 square foot unit. Throughout the community process, we reduce the unit count from four to three eliminating the unit in the basement at the request of the neighborhood. Oh, I think they might have read our minds. I think so. So tell us how, if there are any roof decks proposed and how the parking is proposed to work. Yes, so the, there are no roof decks proposed. There is outdoor space, as you can see on the comments slide there, there's a nice deck at the corner for this uniquely shaped lot. The parking is on the grounds level. It's all internal to the building. Due to the size and the shape of the lot, there is a maneuverability variance that we are seeking today. There's four spaces, which is sufficient to meet the zoning requirement for the number of spaces, but as I said, it is tight and that's due to the shape and size of the lot. Madam, Madam Chair, I'm just looking at the drawings that color showing. These are the right drawings because it's just a unit full labeled. These are not the right drawings, no. So which unit has been eliminated? So I apologize for this. And if it's more appropriate to seek a deferral at this point, I do understand that. Does Mr. Robinson have the right drawings? No, I would request a deferral if we can, because I can't try to figure it out. I don't know much. I'll make a motion at the deferral. Sorry. All those in favor? Sorry. Aye. Any opposed? The date please? April 6th at 12.30. We're going to be along. Thank you. Okay, how much do you want? We just move it on to the next one. Next table being April 27th. I don't know. Clearly. All right. We're going to let you go. Okay, so we'll apologize for that. No problem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Calling BLA 10688978433 Pot Street. This is a change of argument to include a cannabis establishment that ground floor violations, Article 65, Section 15, a cannabis establishment is conditional. Even address for the record please. Got hearing members of board. This is Mike Ross with business address. This is one international place. We have here is 43 free boards, three conditional use permit request to change the. I'm sorry, change the eye. I've been see for working on a business establishment. There is no buffer use. Buffer issue on this application. There is no. Yeah. My other. Yeah. Establishment or 500 foot. School within that area. It's just a straight use. Conditional use permit. What we have is an 18,000 square foot building on a 15,000 plus. Square foot lot. And the plan is to put the cannabis establishment on the first floor on the ground floor. Entirely, the ground floor will also be shared with a lobby that would give access to the rest of the building. There currently are no other tenants in the building, but the other tenants would be on the second and third floor. This is in a local industrial sub district of the Dorchester neighborhood district. And it's surrounded by other commercial properties. And if you keep scrolling, I can give you a sense of what it is we're trying to do here. This is the existing building. And the facility would be located, as I mentioned, on that ground floor. You will enter it from the right most side of the ground floor in the parking. There's a total of 24 parking spaces that have been committed to through the lease, which is a 10 year lease. I can show you a, this is the site plan that gives you a sense of the building, but I can show you a floor plan on the next slide. Kind of walk you through the operation. This is a good slide to just pause it for one second. These are both the same floor plan. The one on the left is a little more detailed. It has more camera and security. So if you look at the floor plan on the right, what you're looking at there is along the right hand side of the building. That's the free port street side. That's where you'll enter through that upper right corner to access waiting room basically to get in. And then the retail area. So the pink area is the area that's available for the public. The other areas, the purple and the gray. That's secure areas fulfillment. You'll notice it says staff entry at the top of the building. So that staff entry will also serve for loading on the building. There is also a public restroom coming off that retail is better. The next slide shows you a nice rendering of how it all comes together. Well, this is an elevation. We've paused there for one second. The left side shows you the front elevation from free port street. We'll enter on that right most door. These other windows and doors will be not operational and then instruct to go to the right most door. Side view that north view shows the entrance for deliveries and employees. And then there's a rendering, I think, on the right. And this gives you a sense of how it will all come together. So tell us about the hours of operation. The number of staff people you're anticipating. And how much will be online? Yeah, this is an equity applicant. The applicant is from doorchester, Brian Chavez. The number of employees will be approximately 15. And then through these items before the Boston cannabis floor will be approved. The applicant on October 21st of 2020. The hours of operations will be from 10 a.m. to 9 a.m. And there was a kind of a vigorous community process where they went through these items with the community and the doorchester community. So tell us is this every day up week? Yes, and that is seven days a week. And then again, tell us how you will deal with overflow. Yeah, the benefit of this site is that there's ample parking. The parking goes beyond the actual site, the property owner. Bob Susie actually owns an abutting site as well. And then there's an opportunity for additional parking, like I said, that we have 24 spaces available to us. The 4,000 square foot floor plan is it's is I would say probably on the larger size of the of the applicants have come before you. And then there's a number of 1500s and 2000s and maybe 2500s. And that should allow for amplifying. And you won't I don't think you'll see lines out the door here or anything like that. We have a very large waiting room area, around 650 square feet. And then additional around 1700 square feet for the floor area, the retail area. Can we miss see Mr. Shabbat's because I noticed you're on since you are an applicant. We'd like to see you on this. How would the plans, Mr Robinson? You're on you, Mr. Robert. Sorry, the plans are good. Okay. Any questions from the board? Can you address security for the facility? Yeah, I think if you go up to the floor plan page. There you go. I think that's a pretty good way to go. So as you can see, all the, I guess diamonds, you can zoom in on the left most represent security cameras. There is not one square inch of the facility that doesn't, that isn't under camera observation. And you see that most in the security areas. In fact, because of the vaults and because of the separated rooms. The access doors. There is no direct access to the facility without being approved first. This is an adult use cannabis facility. You must be 21 years to enter. It's not a situation like a liquor store where you can just walk in and get a bag of chips. It or not. There will be security at the front vestibule ensuring that people who do enter are 21 and older are not inebriated. Have not been somehow banned from the facility or not inappropriately present or were not there previously that same day looking to purchase. Beyond what's allowed by the CCC by the state commission. It's extremely regulated. I think one of the things is to respond to everything. You might be asking this is will that be a security guard or security person presence there? There will be. There will be security staff on site minimum of one person at all times. But in the early days when we first open. There will be. There will be more staff on site will also be working. Which is a week's department. And the event there's any desire for the area captain to request additional details or any of those things. Those are all things that we would be doing. I think that's a lot of. What about security in the outside obviously you've got cameras all over the inside but what is the security plan on the outside and I know that there's allocated parking spaces and the lease as you mentioned. There's additional parking. Obviously when there's no other tenants in the building. That's what's one sort of that's one situation but what about when there are other activities in the building. And the out monitoring external activity of. Customers who you know would be customers is essential to the operation. It's a commitment that we made to the Boston cannabis board and to the public that there won't be any on site consumption. Of cannabis at any time. That could put us in trouble with the city of Boston but could also jeopardize our state. There's no difference as Well. Our state approvals know I appreciate that but what is the what is the plan for the exterior? It's to be monitored by cameras. It's also to be monitored by personnel. So you have our security team not only inside the building but also outside the building that person who's in a vestis bill will play a critical role. and high on the outside of monitoring activity around the perimeter of the building. There's a second, it's a redundant DCHEC internal to the building before you purchase your cannabis as well. So you have two ID checks inside the building, but we're also going to have security outside the building. So when we're talking with the vesturoyal of this plan that I'm looking at right now, is that the way the area that exposes the front entry door to the outside where the staircase is located, where you're talking about the area when you enter the actual facility. Yeah, I'll go right ahead and corner of that plan right there. I'm just going to ask where you enter the security. I have to enter the building. The white area below is a shared lobby for the building itself, and there's no access to the facility from the lobby. Council, I just one question. At the end of the night, does the product stay in the retail area, or does it go back into the vault? It goes back into the vault. We're anticipating maybe three deliveries over the course of the week. So at any one time, there's obviously valuable product on site, but it's limited. It's not you're not walking into a, you know, it's what you're going to be able to sell over the course of the week. That's from what we're talking about. My concern was if product is left after all is in the retail area, and there's all that like glass windows and glass doors, while not being used, the area someone could break them and do a quick grab and go, but be thinking of the vault. And they wouldn't be able to get anything. Yes, understood, Mr. Regera. So that would, that, all that product will be returned to the vault in the 19th. Since there's any product out there, this is not, this is not the type of place that you walk in and grab things off the wall. Everything will be fulfilled by personnel that will bring it to you at the point of purchase. The customer is not going to be pulling things and putting it into a basket. It doesn't work like that. There are display cases and there are opportunities to kind of look at things. But for the most part, the question was asked earlier, what percentage is online? We're seeing approximately 50, 50% or more of people ordering ahead of time using their iPhones. It's because sometimes the product isn't available and people are very specific with what they want and what they want. And so they're going online, they're making their orders and they're fulfilling their orders at the point of purchase. They're not walking in. There are some people who have questions and we're prepared to help them with those questions and they'll be personnel on site to help. But it's a very, it's a very close loop purchasing experience. Mr. Ross, you anticipate that once the pandemic is over, that that online number would grow up? Are people like those go browsing? No, I think what we've seen even before the pandemic is a very informed customer who knows exactly what they want. Maybe when it first came out, I think there was a little bit more telling me about this. But I think for the most part, the customer is extremely informed, very much online and go in. The current numbers, I think are very reduced. They're below than 25 percent. What's currently allowed to do the governor's pronouncement, I think that's some that's starting to be loosened. In any case, it's below the reduced numbers. By the time something this facility were to be built out, we're talking months from now. Hopefully we're outside of the COVID restrictions. We do, you know, there's more, I think the bigger factor Mr. Hurley, because there's more of these are being permitted, not just in Boston, but throughout the Commonwealth. And so you're starting to see lower numbers, 200, 250, you know, is what you're seeing now. It used to be 350 or more over the course of a very busy day if everything was in a pre-COVID environment. You're starting to see those numbers drop and you're starting to see the industry normalize, extremely regulated and hard to get more, getting harder and harder to get on the street because of the legal sale of these facilities. But the question, and this is not related to really this location or this business, but the question becomes how much higher is the price point in the store versus on the street? Because I think our whole goal is to kind of, you know, our eventual goal is to decrease the number of street transactions. Yeah, I mean, I think that's the goal of why the people who put this forward in the first place back in 2014 for medical in 2006 or 2012 for medical in 2016 for adult use. And that is happening. We've seen that in other states. We've seen that in Colorado. We've seen that. I mean, you're now seeing a number of states, maybe more than half the United States, having some sort of legal regime in place. I think the numbers are in the 30s now in the country. So it gets, it's like alcohol. I'm sure the 1930s people are still selling them. I mean, I didn't mean to open this, but I get it. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Well, I, I, not to believe with this a little bit, I have just three quick questions. I'm a little bit interested in that. I've lived in Dorchester 20 years. I know this site very well. Exterior lighting and just fucking lot lighting. Is that something that's under consideration to what is the exterior upgrades? I see in the renderings. It looks like it's getting maybe painted in some window adjustments, which is great. And then three, I just want to make sure we're not considering putting grates on the window or any of that nature building on the security discussion. Yeah. Yeah, understood. There will be a significant upgrade of your outside experience as well as I would say some of the glazing and, and, and the window treatments will maintain substantially as they are. There will not be any grates at all on these windows. You'll see some external plantings and plantar boxes. You'll see a repaved and restriped parking area. If you went into the existing conditions picture photographs there, you can see how the, it's a little bit tired looking. I mean, no disrespect to the owner of the property. I think it's untenanted. And so the idea is to actually that building on the right, Mr Robinson is going to be demolished. It's off property, but it is, it is owned by the same owner. So for purposes of zoning, it does merge. That building is, there's a plan to demolish that building, repave the area, allow for more parking, not just for our, our use, but for the other tenants who will ultimately come to this building. I'm told that the abotters of this property, these other commercial properties are looking forward to this use and to this building, being functioning again and being active again to bring activity and energy to this industrial section of door gesture. Thank you. Okay. So it sounds like should this be approved? We need a screening and buffering and a lighting plan. But not to belabor the security issue. I think for the size of the facility and the lot, the possibility of one security personnel checking in people, monitoring cameras, internal and external in the external parking lot seems at least at the beginning. You know, we, you know, I'm happy to, we anchor on, on, that, on door and, and for all in Chavez will actually will ultimately be the people responsible to operate the facility. I'm happy to have them speak a little bit to that. We did go through it and entire Boston cannabis board hearing and a big component of that was related to the security. I thought thousand square feet. We're not, I didn't let give you the impression that this is like a super store. It's not, you know, most of these are around the, you know, 5,000 mark throughout Massachusetts. Just Boston. Oh, no, absolutely. So I think, um, Jean is asking an important question. How is the cannabis board monitoring your facility on all the elements that were included in your application, security, etc, etc? How are you being monitored by them? I know that attorney Hawkins is on the call. They have a yearly reporting period. Actually, they have, they have, I think they have every month's reporting period, but they have a yearly license reporting period. We have, um, documents that we've submitted to the board that are dozens of pages, if not sometimes hundreds of pages. No, I get it. Um, lastly, are you on? I am here, woman. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Thank you for your, um, your submittals whenever we get these applications. Uh, but, but, but what we need to understand is that in fact, there's some, um, monitoring mechanism because a report is a report. However, you know, how do you hear or get a sense of something that's not working quite right? Because we know that it's a difficult position to put ISD and ISD monitoring in the middle of all of this. So can you speak to that a little bit? Absolutely. I think that was in addition to being charged with equity. I think that was one of the important components of the ordinance establishing the board, just like the licensing board and the license premise, uh, inspection unit of the Boston Police Department oversee liquor stores and restaurants, the Boston cannabis board functions in the same way. So in addition to reviewing and granting these applications, pending obviously, uh, any sort of relief in state approval, we also serve as the regulatory function conducting routine inspections and also responding to complaints. And because we do issue a physical license, we can suspend that license, uh, for cause after a hearing just as we would for a liquor store or a restaurant not complying with any of the applicable regulations. And, um, I think the second question now that we have you is that I know the last time we had a meeting and we had an applicant, oh yes, um, it was the one. I think it's a wall to street address in Rosendale. Uh, we needed them to come back a year after they've opened it. I know that's the second one we've asked, uh, to check in is, is, is, does your office keep track of those? Absolutely. So after their graduate license by the cannabis board, you know, assuming that should they obtain relief from, from this board and go through the CCC approval, they then have to submit a number of documents to actually be issued a license. So we monitor that and regroup with them, the Boston Police Department and other stakeholders to fully ask for opening of any establishment. And then they're also subject to an annual renewal process where they have to demonstrate to the board that they in writing, uh, that they are complying with all of the, uh, operational, hiring and otherwise, uh, commitments that they made, both to the community, to the poor herd and to the ZBA. So that is an active review process that the, the Boston cannabis board underticks annually. Thank you, Councillor. Um, any last questions for, um, Miss Hawkins? Okay. Thank you. Is anybody, uh, gene to that answer your concerns and the Spanato? Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick and L. Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Um, this did go through a full community process last fall, um, as required by the Canada's Control Commission, which did include a cannabis community outreach meeting, uh, and the applicant separately met with. I believe it was a five area civic associations as well as residents and a butters to the property on his own accord. Um, this was read by the Boston cannabis board for security and operational purposes. Um, and seeing this as the equity applicant, we'd be very excited to see this establishment open up into our trust. Um, we would just ask that the applicant continue to work with the neighborhood, um, as he continues this process moving forward, um, and to the board's point about lighting and screening review. Um, we would absolutely welcome that through any design review purposes. Um, but that being said, we'd like to go on. Mr. Fendell, I know that the Suzie's own a lot of property, at least a story as my, if my recollection is right. Um, if there is a proposal to knock down the building on the adjacent lot, you know, um, it's, we would like to see some kind of screening and buffering at the pavement edge, at the sidewalk edge to demarcate the, um, the, and perhaps provide greater safety for, for um, people on the sidewalk. So if there's some way you can facilitate that, because that will not come to us. But if some way that can be facilitated, that would be great. Anybody else to speak on this project? Yes, Madam Chair. This is Joe McGeckren with Councillor Baker's office. Uh, we'd also like to go on record and support the project. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand from Collar. I call you've been unmuted. Caller, 720. We're up to room. We're up to room. I'm chair members of the board. This is a minor for us. Madam Chair, this project is within the proximity to our headquarters, the prior to the carpenters union. Uh, and it's with, um, great pleasure that we go on support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. It's in proximity of one or three, too. Also. Yeah. Okay. Um, Madam Chair, Secretary Neville, we have numerous letters of support. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to be. Uh, BPD, a design review with particular attention to the exterior facade lighting, uh, screening and buffering. And, uh, yeah. Seconds, the Ligris. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's now 115. I'm going to call one o'clock hearings. Are there any deferrals that would draw us to one o'clock? Seven awards worth street. Well, the record calling. Sorry. We'll call it up. BLA 102 4093 seven. Wardwood Street, name and address. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Jeff Trego with Drego and Tuscano with an address of 11 Beacon Street. We were told this was going to be an administrative deferral since there was a violation missing in the advertisement and mailing the Nettgano. There was a date in March where it gets told, was set. Or recommended. Yes, Mr Drego, we have that date here. I'll make a motion of the girl. Is this still a menu in structure? Are we is that it has changed as well, but it's still happened. It was the original. Okay. May it. Is there a part? Is there a second? Sorry. All those in favor? Right. All right. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date please. I have a date of much not to 12.30. Thank you. Any other deferrals which are also 1 o'clock? During that, go back to the cases. No panel of Bernie. Hello. Hello. Hello. Pamela, how are you? Pam, can you hear us? Yes, I can hear you. Thank you so much. Question of deferral? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the committee. Do you request a deferral? Yes, I am. Let's see address, please. 233 Metropolitan Avenue in Rosendale. All the records calling the OA 107 3949 233 Metropolitan Avenue. There's a companion case. The OA 107 3954 233 Reth Metropolitan Avenue. Name and address for the record, please. Pamela, party 233 Metropolitan Avenue, Rosendale. And why are you requesting this deferral? I am requesting this deferral because unfortunately we had a death in the family that has turned things a bit upside down and we have, because of that, we have not had the opportunity to have the proper follow-up community process that we would like to have. Okay. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Seconds. All those in favor? I got it. Any opposed? Motion carries. I just want to remind you, Ms. Barbie, that we're not really open to many deferrals. So please make sure that you request the date that you are able to meet. That is a June date. Good for you. Madam Chair, thank you so much. Yes, that would be wonderful. Okay. All right, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. I have a second. I have a second. I need to pull up the June date. June 22nd, 29th. We have June 29th. Thank you. So, Ms. Sapplconn will see you June 29th at 12. 12.30. 12.30. We have any other deferrals with Roros? okay yet RE Raven Hills Bell�로 The next case street. This is directly new multi-family floor units dwelling with six parking spaces. The violation of Article 65, Section 8, a multi-family use system forbidden. Article 65, Section 9, a lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, a lot of width is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, a lot of frontages insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the floor of the area ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, front yards insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, side yards insufficient. And Article 65, Section 9.2, dimensional regulations, location of the main entrance. Name an address for the record please. Name an address for the record please. Don't say. Oh, George. Jessica should be Jason Patterson. He said that he's in the call. Okay. Okay, Jason. Hello, I gotta go. Please put your name in address in the record. I'm going to turn this into a screen proposed. My name is Jason Patterson. I'm on our 32-rich bill street. And what are you proposing? So we're proposing a four unit building for condos. We initially came six. We had multiple heating with these. The association is what the neighborhood. Then we scaled our six back to four and we changed the design multiple times. So tell us what's the breakdown of the units? One, the rooms two bedrooms, how many square feet? Yes, so the breakdown of the units, it will be four units. They will have two units at two beds. Both of them will have a master. They will have 834 square feet. And the second unit will be 850 square feet. The third and the fourth unit will have three bedrooms. Each of them will have a master. And those will have 1400 yeet square feet. The fourth, you know, we'll have 1470 square feet. We will also have a rooftop deck as well, two rooftop decks, but a third and the fourth unit. How will those decks be accessed? The decks will be accessed through that in the fourth unit. So is it a head house or a hatch? I'm sorry, is that all my time? So it's through a head house. Yes. Okay, and is there any occupancy in the basement? There will be no occupancy in the basement. And tell us how the parking is going to work? So initially when we came with the six unit structure, we had one parking space per unit. So that gave us six. We're still able, because we decreased the dmi units, we're still able to keep the six parking spots. So we have six parking spots for four units. Okay, and go ahead. Yeah, these are off street parking spots. So it doesn't add to any of the clutter that may, they currently be their office street. Okay, and so it's one cub cut to enter an exit. Yes. Okay, and is there any screening and buffering proposed around the parking lot? Okay, so we can get to that. Mr. Robinson, Mr. Olic, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. They do show large headhouses that are on the edge of the building. So I think we want to have them rethink that. And I also do think the rear yard, a bus, another house on another street. And it's pushing quite close. So I am a little bit worried about the the relationship of the parking to that adjacent house. Okay, Mr. Olic, any other board members, any questions? Yeah, I'm just wondering again, looking at dual maps, and it seems like most of the most of the structures in the neighborhood are two or three family. I don't see any four family units to the applicant. Is that the case? So if we talk about the whole street of the whole, I think it is Susie that just put up a three family and make the big day, they have a renting in the basement as well. So there are three units on this street. But if we are to just kind of dial into our area, it is, I think it's two families for the most part. And that's why we scaled it back from six and we made it a four, a four unit. But if you look at it from street street view, it stays in line with all of the other units currently there and you can't tell that it's a four because our lot is long and narrow. So most of the square footage is going to be going backwards as opposed to wide or three or two. Okay, and we've soft-pedal the headhouses, but as a board, we are not too keen on headhouses, but rather hatch access. So just so that you know that. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Yes, Greetings Madam Chair, one minute members of the board. My name is Shantz Halima Barboza with the Mayor's Office of the Public Health Services. And the budget meeting was held on August 12, 2020 and the applicant presented to the Greater Board of Engineering, the Public Health Association. The applicant made significant changes addressing the issues of number of units and parking. The applicant has received some support of a butter and the mayor's office will like to go on a trip and support the proposal. Thank you. Get off the new Madam Chair. Joe McGack, Red City Council of Frank Baker's office, we'd like to go on support of the applicant. Madam Chair, I have no room for you. Mayor, have a motion please. Let me ask Mr. Robinson a question first. The design looked, I mean, the rendering, the elevation looked nice, but what you're feeling about how well it fits in with everyone's context. You know, I'm okay with it. I think it has some elements that do relate. It's a little different shape. I think my biggest concern, which I don't think is necessary about the design, I don't love the side entrance off of the driveway. And I think, you know, if we approve this, I would certainly like the BPA to design review, but with special pay attention to sort of the whole access and sort of relationship of the, the paintings to the pedestrians into the building. You heard me. Ms. Ambassador is Ms. Domen here for this case. What's the name? Davida Angleman had her hands. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Hi, this is Davida Angleman. Hello. Please are you in support or in opposition of 32 rich fields straight? Not support in opposition of. And what's the basis of the opposition? Yes, I live at 94 o'clock in the street right around the corner. I am a person of the Greater Bowden Geneva neighborhood association. There have been approximately eight meetings regarding this project to before the Greater Bowden Geneva neighborhood association for unofficial or neighborhood of butter meetings and certainly reflect. Tell us the air pump, please. What your opposition is based on? Yes. I have to refute what was stated before. Actually, this location is mostly surrounded by one family dwellings. And then there are two families and further down the street towards Columbia Road. There are three families. The most immediate butters feel that this is excessive. They are willing to talk to Mr. Pousson further to try to get some kind of compromise down to a lower number of units. They feel that there's much too large, many too many units, especially for those most impacted by the project. So we would ask if there's any way that a deferral could be rampanted so that there could be additional conversations with Mr. Pousson. You know sometimes we have a hard time because we just want to know that the community is playing fair with the applicant and really engaging them in conversation because at some point you know he would like to make the neighborhoods happy with deferral however if the applicant has what part to come up with an alternate plan it feels somewhat fair to them if they keep needing to request a deferral. So go ahead who's this? I was still this is David Anelman there was a project where Pousson was made for four units isn't about a year after negotiation. The most immediate butters it was decreased down to two. There is no place on Richfield Street where there are four units. Okay so you have seen the so you have seen the four unit proposal? Yes I've seen Mr. Fathasons four unit proposal multiple times. Okay thank you thank you okay we were just about to have the motion so we have the system. Can I say one last thing? Mr. Barsson go ahead. Yes so I just wanted to kind of respond to the Vita and make sure everyone's where I yes we want to sit at every one at six we understood that the community was uncomfortable with it they didn't like the design so we reduced it back and we changed the design and make sure that it fit in with you know what was going on in neighborhood one of the main concerns was you know upstream parking we handle that they're worried about the quality of Pousson and they move it in because renters you can't control as much that's why we transition to have it to be condos so there's going to be home ownership I know there's a shortage of housing in the city so we wanted to bring that in we also wanted to improve and increase the quality and also the value of the houses around us so if we have new construction coming up everyone around in the area is going to benefit. Okay what we're trying to do. Thank you thank you okay so we have all the information we need may I have a motion please? I want to give motion to approve with a whole series of providers and one is that the headhouses be replaced by hatches. Two is that the BPDDA design review look at the issue of access to the cyber system for the maintenance of Robinson highlighted and also a question of parking in the rear and in particular the design for context because it is it does see what it's exactly designed to do is actually in that well. Second. I'm just clarification on the parking this was is this reflective of Mr. Robinson's comment about needing screening and buffering against the bike lot. Yes. Okay. Was there a second? Yes. I second. Eric. All those in Traver. I any any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling an XK is calling BLA 113 9018 5 Rice Street. This is a change of use from a one family to a six family. Opposed addition and renovation to the existing. The violations are 65 section 32. This is in the end. The end. We will be required. Article 65 section 41. All Street parking and loading. Article 65 section 8. Section 8. Section 8. It's used. It's forbidden. Article 65 section 9. The floor of the original is excessive. Article 65 section 9. The building height is excessive in stories. Article 65 section 9. The building height is excessive in fee. Article 65 section 9. The front yard is insufficient. Article 65 section 9. The side yard is insufficient. Article 65 section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. And Article 65 section 9.2. The dimensional regulations. The location of the main entrance. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. Eric Benelli from Polgenean, know what the business address of 10 Forbes Road on behalf of the applicant and with me today is David Creed, the architect. We hear today's seek in variances for five rice street and doorchester to renovate a building and add an addition to the existing three-story structure converting it into a six unit residence with eight off street parking spaces on a six thousand nine hundred and 45 or excuse me my apologies of five thousand nine hundred and 45 square foot lot which is in a two f five thousand zoning sub district. The regulations for five rice street are Article 65 section eight use multi families are not an allowed use. The proposal is not to construct a new multi-family building but to incorporate the existing structure into a new use to promote the unique historic character of the building and preserve it for years to come accountant for the rising sea levels five rice street according to city records dates back to the 19th century making it one of the oldest houses in the port. So this so this is a five this is almost a six thousand square foot lot and you have a two f five thousand so you're basically tripling the number of units or doubling the number of units that would be allowed on this lot. So can you please explain to us what how the units are going to work the sizes how the addition is working and of course the parking. Yes, I'm sure of course. So there are eight off street parking spaces that are included in this plan that was part of the community process we heard strong calls for sufficient off street parking and we did meet that there is still a design and location variance that we are seeking for the parking due to the location of three of the parking spaces and the maneuverability of those spots. The unit breakdown for the six units unit one is a one bedroom one bathroom six hundred and seventy three square foot unit on the first floor unit two is a two bedroom two bathroom one thousand one hundred and twelve square foot unit on the first floor unit three is a two bedroom two bathroom nine hundred and eighty nine square foot unit unit four is a two bedroom two bathroom one thousand one hundred and twenty three square foot unit unit five is a two bedroom two bathroom nine hundred and twenty two square foot unit. And unit six is a two bedroom two bathroom one thousand fifty nine square foot unit so your two bedrooms range size from 922 to 1123. Okay. So, um, and are these anticipated to be rentals or condos? I believe that is the intention of the applicant to turn them into condos. Okay, so these are a lot of violations. Um, can you? Okay, so, um, I just walk us through how the building will work, shows the existing collect, can you just show us what the existing looks like and what the conclusion looks like? Um, Mr Robinson, how are the plans? Yes. You're on mute, Mr Robinson again. Sorry about that. Um, the plans look good. It is a complicated, uh, renovation and addition. Um, it is a lot of units that are being put into this, this building, though. Okay. Um, and, um, can you, uh, and how is the parking working? Because is it interior parking or surface parking? So parking is accessed off, uh, to illustrate there's six parking spaces, um, outside and two were internal to the building. Okay. And are you comfortable with that, Mr Robinson? I mean, the parking there is two inside. I mean, I don't have a layout plan. I don't believe for the parking on the site. I know there's the site plan, but it doesn't show how they're exactly configured. Um, there are some existing curb cuts. Are you reusing those curb cuts? So on sheep, uh, a 1.0, um, you can get the best sense of the parking layout. The, uh, plan is to relocate, um, an existing curb cut further down, uh, Taylor Street towards the corner, in the direction of the corner of Taylor and Rice. Um, let's say, uh, relocating the existing 18 foot four inch, uh, curb cut. Okay. Madam Chair, uh, Mr. Demiko has spoken this project. Do you like his comments? Yes, please. So he says all the, all the three guides to five right street, although the spaces are located in a question of a question of a location, it does work well from an operational perspective. Yes, because it looks like the entire side yard then. Yeah. If you look at Rice Street as, as a front yard is, is, uh, paved over. Well, that, that, Madam Chair, that's a problem of having a corner lot, which is, on the, uh, technically, it's not for anyone parking, but if you're on Taylor Street, you've got all these cars, you're completely paved over all these cars right on the street. Yeah, but you know, part of it may be the over, over building up the site too, because there is that three-storek condition in the backyard or, you know, that could, could have accommodated some parking back there. Seems like a lot of things happening on the road to a small lot. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick Fandell, Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services, this did go through a global community process with one on site of butter's meeting that was held prior to the pandemic and then a second of butter's meeting that was held virtually last fall. The applicant did also work with the Port Norfolk Civic Association and received support from his director butters. There were initial concerns about the design and the parking ratio on site, but he worked with those through with his butters. We would just ask for continued BPDD design. Thank you. Okay. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council of Frank Baker's Office, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands here. Okay, so I'm going to, I'm going to have to rely on you guys to come up with a motion here. I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. I think this is trying to shift 10 pounds of, you know, what, into a fight on bedding. Okay, sir, a second. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? I'm going to oppose to. So two oppositions, most motion carries. You've been denied motion carries. You've been denied without prejudice. Thank you. Well, in the next case, calling the other way, 111-8297-162-164-Wallnut Street. This is erecting two-family module dwelling. The violation is Article 65, Section 35. This is the neighborhood overall, an overly district review required. Article 65, Section 41, RST parking is insufficient. Article 65, Section 42.2. They perform you the existing building alignment. Article 65, Section 8, the two-family is forbidden in a 1F-5,000 sub-disc. Article 65, Section 9, the employee of your issue is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Alex Benelli from Poujini, in Noitin with the Business Address of 10 Forbes Road on behalf of the property owners of the McCarthy family. We're here today seeking variances for 162-164-Wallnut Street and Dorchester to erect a new two-family residence with two lock-free parking spaces on a two-be-created 5,000-square-foot-lot, which is in a 1F-5,000-zoning sub-district. So, did you say it's two-be-created so tell us how it's being created? Because you see when there's a new lock being created, we see the companion lock to see that we're not creating too many violations on the existing lock and the existing building. Yes, the property is currently open space for the single family at 166-Wallnut, which is owned and occupied by the family. They intend to occupy both units in the new residence with the parents on one level and the daughter and her family occupying the other unit. The, as you could see on this plan here, it's going to include a proposed curb cut in driveway for the existing structure and then a curb cut and proposed driveway for the new residence. Okay, so is this really proposed as modular? Yes. Okay, can we see a rendering of this? Because, you know, Ms. Monelle, you must know about how we aren't really concerned about how mods fit into the neighborhood. I do appreciate that and I am aware of that Madam Chair. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans look good and I can occur with your original concern about modular. I think the design does fit in fairly well with the abiding neighbors and I was more worried about the relationship of it to the street and it is in alignment with the adjacent buildings. And how does the parking look? I'm asking the applicant, Mr. Monelle. Excuse me. Thank you. So the parking will be through a proposed curb cut if you're facing the construction. Well, let's collect and you pull up and scroll through so we can get a better sense of how exactly the parking will work and if it's front yard parking or not. Okay, thank you. Go ahead. So parking would be accessed through a proposed curb cut and driveway. The plan delineates two parking spaces, tandem parking spaces, but there is room for a third in the front side yard as you could see on the proposed plan in front of you. You, Mr. Robinson and you Mr. Olyk weigh in on this? Yes. I'm Coca-Cola. Keeps growing down. And my question on the abiding property 166, I know there's a new proposed driveway. That one doesn't seem to be going back as deep. So it looks like parking would occur in the front yards. I don't know how the cases are, they're dependent on each other, but I think it seems there's plenty of room in the proposed dwelling to park back in the side, but this one then does not show that same kind of death. I think there's a technical issue here because generally when there is a subdivision, we have both addresses that we look at, you know, we look at together. So I don't know why this popped up as a solo address, but okay, but we, but it is here, it is a subdivision. So I do think we will have a role in this. Any questions from the board? I just like to collect the keeps growing so I can get a better sense of the whole project. But I look at the confused about the park spaces. I'm not as opposed to being. Mr. Robinson, do you understand what's happening there? Yeah, I think on B, it seems to be their nose front to back on the side of the yard, and it does seem like there's plenty of space on B. The A is the one I also have a question about. I mean, I'm looking at the street view and there seems to be no reason to go back farther. It just doesn't seem to be shown that, but to be back farther. There's no part of the building or anything on 166 that's recruiting it from going back. So I don't know if that's just something we could address through this process. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick Van Nelmayer's office and neighborhood services. The stick go through a full community process, including in a butters meeting. The applicant and all of the board nor vocacific association which unanimously voted to support this proposal. The applicant has the support of all of his direct debutters as well as several butters extending beyond the direct property. We'd like to own record and support in this proposal. As it will continue to house lifelong port residents. Patrick has this area of port Nelmayer been subject to flooding? I don't believe this address does, especially since the renovation of Finnegan Park. I think that now services are going to turn. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak and support on an opposition to this project? One more question. I'm just curious. Where does the modular unit come from? Where does the manufacturer base? It is Westchester, modular homes. Okay. Where are they? I believe out of Connecticut. I believe out of Connecticut. Oddly enough, I'm using them right now. They build some real light stuff. Okay. Um, back to you. Yes, go ahead. Hi, Joe McGatcom with City Council of Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go and record and support the applicant. Thank you. Madam, could I have to know Madam Chair, Karen Foley, Councilor Savi George's office? Would like to echo the sentiments of the Mayor's office and Councilor Baker's office in going support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, the secretary here. We have letters of support as well. There are no raised hands. Yes, sir. Madam Chairman. Yes, does that exist in Roach? Yes, I'm in a butter right next door to the McCarthy's. Yes. And I just have a, I just want to confirm a few things as I may. Are you speaking in support or in opposition? I just have questions at this point. Okay. Why don't you go through them quickly because all questions should have been answered prior to this meeting. We'll go ahead. All right. Thank you so much. I just want to confirm that the modal from the front and back of the property line is at 29 feet. Mr. Benelli, you're going to have to respond to that. Yep. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Mr. Roach. So the survey was established. The modal at 29 feet, the front face of the first floor, the building itself, as shown on the plot plan, is set back 29 feet. There is a covered porch, as you can see in the proposed plot plan. And the porch is in line with other porches on the street. Okay. Let's let's let's pick up the pace. Any other? Thank you. And can I just ask triple more questions? Can I just want to make sure that the dormers on the left side is 10 feet away from the front walk for privacy purposes? And the second question just for my own, will there be road mitigation during construction? Okay. So we're going to address the first one. You can take it up with Mr. Benelli and on the second question. So Mr. Benelli, is that 10 feet? So I'm very, I'm confused. Could the question be resented? The concern about the dormers on the left-hand side, placing our house, are they going to be 10 feet away from the front wall for privacy purposes? Mr. Ambassador, can you please me, Mr. Roach? Okay, go ahead. Jim Johnson from Westchester is here on the call with me to he'd probably be more appropriate to answer relocating dormers on the modular home. Jim? What's his name? Is he on as an attendee or a panelist? James Johnson, is his name? Okay, yeah. James, you've been unmuted? Yes, good afternoon. As far as the dormer location currently, it is situated for stairs to make maximum functionality of the floor plan that is not an actual room where that particular dormer would be. So we can, you know, outside of this meeting, if there are certain concerns, that the butter would have to that, we can, you know, discuss that and make sure that it's, you know, something that they are to their liking. I know they have discussed that already with the homeowner. Okay, thank you. Thank you. So give it all that information. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Will the design review? Mr. Mr. Roger, can we add, provide, so there be no front yard parking? Oh, yes, yeah, of course, yeah. We're talking about no front yard parking at 166, right? Okay, so we, Mr. Hampton, just make sure that when you do design review for parking, it includes 162, 164 and 166. Okay, try to do the 166, but we don't have any plans for 166. So we need to request plans. I know Mr. Bernali will get that to you fairly quickly so that we can get that squared away. Otherwise, it comes to us for board final arbiter. Okay. Okay, thank you. So there was a motion. It was a second. It was there a second? Yes, sir. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling your next case, calling BLA 114202225 Bane Street. This is directly to family dwelling proposed for our street parking, the violation of Article 67 Section 8. That's who family dwelling use this would be. Name an address for the records, ladies. It's the applicant here for this address. Yes. Do you know what the applicant's here? And there's even David online. Steven, yes. Okay, yeah. Steven, you've been on mute. Oh, I think we just lost him. We're just on. Okay. Is Mr. Paine on? If not, let's go to the next case while he gets out. So then. I'm best of all for 25 Paine. Come back to it. We'll go to the next two cases calling BLA 113504291A1 Avenue. There's a competing case. BLA 1121555891RF, Channel 1 Avenue. This is the 91. Two dwellings on the same lot. The violation of Article 56 Section 8. The Floyd A. Ratio is excessive and out of Article 56 Section 8. Ratio is insufficient. This is from 91. Rat and the one the change of actually existing caran chose in the rare of the single family dwelling and remodel. The address will be known as 91. Rat and the one Avenue. The violation of Article 56 Section 39. Off the parking, loading, proposed parking is insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. Lot of frontages insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. The Floyd A. Ratio is excessive. Article 56 Section 8. The Lot of spaces insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. The front yard is insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. The rear yard is insufficient. And out of the 56 Section 8. The side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Oh 91. Terri, Terri, Terri, or Riley? 91. I know what happened you. Listen to me. So Mr. Riley, I'm going to tell you off the bat that we're not keen on having two dwellings on the same lot. One is a pretty well-established street with basically homes, no carriage houses or garages have been converted to dwelling units. So please explain to us what you're proposing to do. Yes. The 91 and the carriage house was not lived in for a long time and was run down. So there was a meeting across the road and it was proposed by the city that it needed somebody to buy it. So I said I'd buy it if it came in the market, which I did. And the carriage house was full of animals and was a nine-in-a-nabors for quite a long time. And I was asked to clean the chase up and I did buy it. And my wife, she had medical problems and she was asked to live in a hospital to live in a one-floor accommodation which we felt that was either ideal. And it's going to be one floor with a bedroom on the first floor, a bedroom on the ground floor, and a accommodation on the ground floor, kitchen, bathroom, and bedroom on the ground floor. So that's what my proposal was to do. So tell us about the bean houses that's going to stay as a single family? Oh, yeah, absolutely. Yes, we know we still have to own 91 and the rare. It's all going to be the one piece. It's a remain one family. And there's no accommodation that can be made to the current dwelling, to accommodate with stairs and all that. So it's hard to make it real. The accommodation on the front 91, it's 91 is a three-floor house. It's three floors. I think it's five, six bedrooms. So we did have meetings in relation to the... Before you go through all that, I just want to just understand what you're proposing to do. So you're proposing to renovate the house that has five or six bedrooms. And then... Will the carriage house do how many bedrooms? The carriage house we're going to live in. I know, but how many bedrooms... How many bedrooms will we have to have one bedroom on the first floor, and then two bedrooms on the second floor for our family if they choose to come and visit? Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are very sick. They seem to be only specific to the carriage house. What he is... What he's proposing is what's drawn. So they think they're adequate to cover that. And back when we square feet, is that carriage house? Is that that question for me? Anybody who can answer it? Probably about 1500 square feet. Can I ask a question of the applicant? So there's a curb cut that's shown. It's just very overgrown. So how are you going to access this rear parcel? All this has been done. I mean, it says that there is insufficient parking, but it's to be considered as the sale right now. Sorry. You are asking of relief of this board. Therefore, you might have explained it 10 times, but you need to explain it clearly to us, because this is where the rubber beats the road, and this is where you will get your relief from. Okay? So please be patient and explain it to us. So go ahead. I would say I'm here with my father here. The work has already been done to the main house. It's brand new. It's been, you know, with the whole neighborhood has come out and support during the both of the butterbeens and thank you for doing the main house. If you Google image it now, it looks like it's looked for the reason they had the meeting with Madal Mally and Inspectorial Services was because it was dilapidated in the bandit for about 10, 15 years. What it's currently, if you drive up and on right now is brand new. So I don't live that far away, so I know what's happened. So you, so your driveways are the right hand side, right? If I'm looking at the levels where you can drive. That's the driveways, the right hand side, yes. Okay, and how are you going to accommodate parking for both units? On the front part, on the left hand side, there's two spaces for the existing house and two spaces to rear for the for the co-chance. So you have two two are curb cuts? No, no, there's only one curb lead into the one driveway. Okay, because I, okay. All of this, sorry. And what's the square footage of the lot? I don't know what's up in my head, but it's existing. It would be, it's all existing, but it would be, say, I don't know, 8,000 square feet. So it's sold for 580. It's 2,857 square feet for the building. So the law is 7,813 square feet. Okay. Okay. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and I'm the board, Jack Doug and Mary's office and David Services, just like to go and record support. It take go through a full community process. We had an abouters meeting in the summer of 2020, which a bunch of neighbors came on and were very supportive. It went before the West Roxford Neighborhood Council in September. And again, they voted unanimously 9 to 0 in support of this proposal. As Terry mentioned, his life does have medical issues that, you know, limited to one floor. The neighbors both come out and said what a great job they've done with all the renovations of the date and they look forward to, you know, this proposal as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Peter Fabriano from Council. Of this project. Yep. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Cameron Foley, Councilor Nisra Savi, Georgia's office. And we'd like to go and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, both so will be in the behalf of the Council at Lodge, Michael Flardy. Due to the fact that the neighborhood has come out and supported Mr. O'Reilly and his wife, Councilor Cigone-Rackens. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Mayor of motion, please. I make a motion to support with BPA design review. I'll second that job. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you. Penny, a vote. And I'm going to go on record in opposition because I think the set's a poor precedent for two buildings on the same lot in this neighborhood. Next case. Going next to cases. Going BLA at 114-357-4449 Cambridge Street. There's a companion case BLA 114-35652-MRIRO. This is for 4449 Demolicy Exist Instruction Constructing New Multi-Failure Residential Builder, which 127 units of approximately 80 parking spaces. Who's Lairn Crump? I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. We're going to go to the next one الأ trusts, and go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. Go to the next one. Yes. If you let go like that, you can get the next one around you than you. Then I'm going to go over there. Yes. You get the first one. You get the first one east of the road. You can get the second one east towards the road. I'll be back. Those it is a hundred sixty six units spread across two buildings. That is the smaller building that you're seeing on the screen now to the left. 88 studios with an average size of 400 square feet. There are four one bedroom townhouses that are in the back of the Cambridge Street Building. That came out through the community process. They have an average size of 805 square feet. There are 18 two bedrooms average size one thousand eight square feet and two three bedrooms average size one thousand three hundred sixty five square feet. I'm sorry how many three bedrooms? Only two. One thousand three hundred sixty five. The project was a work through as a compact living project and the sponsor can explain the details of that. One thing I want to emphasize is one of the two three bedrooms is going to be an affordable unit. Now through the community process the affordable onsite is very high. It's a 17%. So 28 of the units are spread throughout the buildings evenly. Eight of the affordables are artists live work. Two of the two bedroom affordables have actually had their rent set. These are a rental set lower than normally a minus 60%. Also, there's a donation of one million dollars. I don't want to hear about donations because you know, so anyways, so all of the 166 units are compact living. Tell us about the shared space. Yes, the shared space. Let me turn to Robert Brown and Andrew Gross. They're on the line from the architects most of the amenity space and open. Use of open space are in the larger building. Are they on the line? Well, I'll give you the numbers. If you can hear if you can go to level two, floor plan, that would be helpful. Well, I'll fill in while the architects come on. So at 449 Cambridge Street, there is 471 square feet of common usable open space. So there are really two exterior areas. One at the second level, as mentioned, and then one on the roof. Both of these are really oriented towards Cambridge Street. There are also another 295 square feet of private usable space for a few units. So tell us about, so you've talked about the amenity space, the 471, tell us about the amenity space on the roof. Is that open to the entire building? Both buildings. Both buildings. That's right, Matt. Okay. And how big is that? I have to defer to the architects. I'm sorry. I don't have that. Okay. And so tell us about the artist's live workspace. Will this space allow from more than somebody who is working on their computer? Yes. And so, I think that's why we're going to have a lot of work to do with the architecture. We'll allow enough square footage for. Perhaps have, you know, bigger things that they produce art wise. Mr. Waster, are you on? Mr. I'm going with this, right? Yes, of course. Please, first, I want to ask and tell us about how large is it? Very close. Sorry. The space is on sheet A 1108. Accessed by an offset cut house. And it's, they've probably 2000 square feet. Okay. 2000. So it's 6000 square feet. 6,700 square feet for the 166 units. Ellis about the artist. So this is supposed to be entirely rental building. Can you tell us because we've been seeing a lot of artist live workspace. That is very small. That will only allow for something like computer graphics or something like that. But doesn't allow for other types of creatives. Yes. Thank you for the question. And yes, we worked with BPD with that in mind to make sure that the artist units. While studios could accommodate large format painting. So it's just under data laptop. Is somebody thinking do large format. And that's the same. And that's the same. Work. So while the average space of studio was around 450. Those units could be as big as 650. So we made a conscious decision working with the city on the affordable units. Make sure that the artist units can accommodate larger format work. And where they are they. Will they have specific. To air the space out fans of venting or whatever it is. Air that space out. We don't have dedicated. Ventually. Right now. All the units of God exterior ventilation. We can work with them on that. And did the. Carol. Carol. Look at this from the mayor's office of. I don't know what what it's called. Arts and culture. Yes. Did they have been put on this. Yes, we went through several meetings. With the mayor's office with the city with BVDA with neighborhoods. And that's that's where the. The artist housing request came from and where the. The size and. The last question is that this is a heavily. But we are. I'm just going to talk about that. The. The. The populated student area. How are you going? Were these rentals anticipated to. What is this anticipated sweet spot for these rentals. I think professionals. This is the intention as well as families. That's why there are. The three bedrooms. community. Right. So there's no September move-movins. How about January of February move-ins? That is not a rare date. It's a semester. So there's no September move-ins. And how is-and then okay. And of course, Mr. Oleg, how are the plans? They seem to differ from what's being described by the opponents. The studios do not average 450 square feet. In fact, they're typically between 300 and 350 square feet. They're significantly smaller. There's also only two or three bedrooms. So the unit sizes that the opponents have described don't seem to be pulled out by what I'm seeing on the plans. They're significantly smaller. On the second, third and fourth floor, all of the studios are almost all the studios are under 350 square feet. So these are truly compact living. And I understand that the city is encouraging that or at least, I'm not reading that, but let's not get ourselves these are very small units. I guess my question is for the proponents, the amenity space on the second floor, which is called out at, hang on a second, 2800 square feet, which is under the compact living guidelines you are required to have community space to make up for the small sizes of the units. What is the anticipated use of the amenity space? And just to make sure you're asking why are the numbers that you were giving now on the paper? As for the numbers, I got those from the proponent who by the way can't seem to get into the call to explain. So I'm just reporting the numbers I was provided. Okay, well, I'm talking to you. The trends show almost all the studios at 350 square feet or less. Mr. Arle, this is Dave Womester with Anchor Line. I have been able to get in. I apologize. I've been able to speak, but the average units of the studio units are 404 square feet. I'm looking at the second floor. Just so the average is so that they range. They range. 300 to 500 is that what you say? They range. They range. They're different. 20 hours. Do you have a whole lot of pooled on hold on. I'm looking at the second floor. I see it. There are two at 600 one at almost 500 and one two three four five six seven eight and under 350. So it's sort of like the meter median average is a little bit. There are a lot of very small space studio spaces. That's correct, Mr. Arle. Like we were we were strongly advised by BPD Day when we first brought this project to BPD Design Review to approach the project under the compact living guidelines. Okay, so then please answer my secondary question, which is under the compact living guidelines. A developer is required to develop common community space to make up for the small size of the units. So can you please describe what's going to happen in the amenity space on the second floor that is 2800 square feet? Sure, that'll be outdoor living space for units of both buildings. It hasn't been fully programmed, but there'll be outdoor amenities that will are common to most multi-family projects in the area. But it's all in compliance with the city's guidelines. Does our one actually indoor component as well? That's where you're looking at. So there's the outdoor which the triangle is based, the indoor amenities space, the 2800 square feet is indoor program. So there's a balance between interior and exterior program. So it could be fitness areas or common rooms or multi-. But I think Mr. Arle, because I'm specifically what is the plan for the amenity interior amenity space? Thank you. The interior amenity space will probably be, you know, could hold a gym, work areas, breakout areas for tenants. Basically areas where tenants could meet and can use common area space and then have the ability to flow outdoors to outdoor space as well. Okay, so when you gave me, gave us the number, that second floor space being 4,701 square feet. Probably about half of it is for year-round use. The nest is just for summer use. And it sounds to me like you're giving, it's an afterthought. You have not, at least, looked at a way to make this whole system of micro-units and carpet living workable. Madam Chair, we have worked very closely with the city to make it workable and also with the artist community to make these live work artist units. We think obviously giving what's going on where the project started before COVID, we think the amenity space will probably be different than what we originally envisioned as far as how it will be used by the tenants. But we've worked very hard to create a space that will be viable and attractive to the tenants of both buildings. And let me ask one other question about the common space. You described both the interior amenity space on the second floor and also the roof. On the drawing that I'm looking at, A11 or A8, the roof deck occupies a very small part of the overall roof space. What is it besides the typical air handler and other units that go on the roof? Is there a reason that A4 building got large that the roof deck is that small? We're exploring foot of a tallick cells up there for solar. Being able to have the building for solar. So for the rest of the roof? Yes, the roof is located up before and yet. That's correct. Okay, I mean, again, in the compact living guidelines, there is a very strong recommendation that there would be ample space to make up for the smaller size. The lights were units and you've got, but it looks like I don't have measurements but you're using about 10% 20% less of the total roof space for a common area. I'm just wondering why it can't be any bigger. You can still do three quarters of the roof and photo of the tag cells and have more common space. If we were to make this a Robert Brown from Perkinsville, the roof deck, if it was increased in size right now, it's at a maximum of 49 people at this larger. We would have to create an additional stair down. And as David was saying, there tremendous pressure also to make this photo-bulted ready. So we are trying to keep that space available as well. And it's actually 56% of the units. Largely, the studios, as you pointed out, is the thresholds for in 50. But 56% of the units are compactiles and the rest are above the threshold. I'm sorry, what did you say? 56% are compact living and the rest are regular? Yes. Okay. So, um, just, just ask me a question. Yes, Madam Chair. Um, you know, Cambridge Street has seen at least this board has seen a lot of projects going up and down Cambridge Street, including the one just on the other side of the pipe, which we approved, which was that, um, that shared living concept. Right. Um, what, what is the vision for this case? Because it feels like it's being very dense and overdeveloped because the highest point, at some point was, was the haily building that is a union square. But subsequent, we've seen a whole lot of really, really dense development. And I don't know with the other projects how, um, all these, um, you know, providers that have been put in place are managed because I don't know how you manage, um, you know, making sure that there are no rentals in September. Any sense of, of, of what the thinking is, um, from your peers at the BPD, right? No, unfortunately, I can't answer that because I wasn't involved in this project or any of the other contact unit. Once this is something where, you know, um, I just haven't been invited to partake in it and I've expressed the concerns of the board over the past couple of years about contact, um, and I know that it's been, um, extended for another, uh, two years, um, but in terms of the rationale behind it, I can't give you an honest answer. Okay, because I, if my memory serves me right, this, this project, um, is split between a CC, a community commercial with an FAR one and the rear of the building when emery is local industrial also with an FAR of one. So what is the FAR you're proposing on, um, the Cambridge Street Lot and on emery street? I'm not sure you're correct. Um, most of the area is industrial leaves, um, currently 5.6 on the Cambridge Street Lot, three, five, seven on the two emery road lot. Okay, so I mean, I think that's clearly indicative of, um, of how the density, um, what the, what the density, um, what the density is. Okay. Any other questions from the board? I, I just got a question and I don't know if this is for the BPD or for the proponent, but I'm just trying to grasp the concept of 10,000 square feet of parking for units that are made for, you know, transient, they're made for affordability and they're made for people that, are living a different type of lifestyle that involves biking and tea and things like that. We have little community space and then I feel like 10,000 square feet of parking is kind of good. Okay, so if I may, thank you, thank you. The 80 spaces are meant to comply with the BPD standards for this neighborhood. So it's, it's a little bit below .5. Again, it's shared parking. So actually, the relief we're getting includes additional use permit for ancillary parking, because this is the parking for all of the units, not just one building. Also, there's going to be required through the BPD, approval or project review incentives for transit use for five years. So the, the landlord is going to have to give vouchers again to encourage transit use on Cambridge, but David wants to know more. But, but my question is, okay, so, so the, you know, the building will probably be here for a little bit longer than five years. So why is this incentive in place only for five years? Mr. Waster, again, I wasn't involved in that. Sure, when the incentive was negotiated with BPD and the BPD as part of a package, we were also told that the neighborhood didn't want cars parking on the street. So people who read in this building will not be given often bright parking stickers as well. So we've been very sensitive to the parking issues raised during the community process. And, you know, right now, we've committed to five years, but certainly if it's an appropriate leasing opportunity for us to differentiate our building, we would certainly look at continuing that program. Are issues like the September move in and the, and the lack of A B parking permits? Are those memorialized? Or is that just what you're kind of making a commitment to now? They've been memorialized, Mr. Erlich in the BPD, a memo, Board memo. Actually, if I think, personally, I don't know if somebody is paying taxes. They can be eliminated from applying for a sticker. But anyway, so let me just start. Can I just say that the requirement of the compact building program, they cannot access resident stickers, so it's not a extra into requirement? Okay, so I kind of lost my train of thought here. So okay. Matt, Matt and Chair, while you're gathering your thoughts, so the compact living, just one rationale that I understand, yeah, is it does lead to lower rental prices. And that's, that was definitely a consideration. So the thing is, the thing is, you know, there's a lot of innuendos and rumours floating around. We as a board haven't seen that as a fact. There has not been any analysis that's been done, but it has said that this is, you know, 2% lower or 20% lower. We haven't seen any numbers that kind of make the argument for these compact living. In the meantime, these projects, Matt and Chair, Matt and Chair. All right, go ahead. Madam Chair, if I may, under the compact living guidelines, the AMI prices for the IDP units are lower than the standard. There's a separate set of AMIs that are given. So those IDP units are, are made more affordable by the fact that this project is coming under the compact living guidelines. The 17% is a good thing, I agree with that. This is more in the case from Councillor Ruiz office. Can I just speak to this very quickly? So, also, right, has seen a number of these compact living pilot proposals. I want to say about eight or nine, all within this area of all. Based on their proposals, because none of them have gone and been constructed yet, it's approximately based on their rent, their proposed rents, they'll say, they usually say that the units will be approximately 200 to 500 dollars cheaper than regular unit, regular size unit. I do want to say that there have been, or I have read PNF for other compact living pilot projects and other parts of the cities that are significantly cheaper than the ones being proposed in Austin. So I think just, I just wanted to say that and say that we're not seeing the as much rental savings as we would like. I'm glad that you're putting on your analysis cap more. So, what is the price point you're anticipating for these units? May I ask that of the developer? Madam Chair, we haven't set the price points because this building will take at least 18 to 19 months to construct. Obviously, the market units are driven by the market and the market limit, as we all know, is come back considerably, but the price point units for the IDP units are all under the guidelines of the compact living property. Okay. Okay. Any other questions will be boring? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, really quickly, I'm just a little clarification questions on the amenity space. Will there be shared cooking in the amenity space, either interior or under the exterior? Are you providing any de-care services or any other? Can you still elaborate on that? Because I'm just struggling with the math, which I did, and the interior square footage for the amenity fall short public guidelines. I understand that you're probably supplementing that with the exterior, but I'm curious. I know that there were just a lot of sort of hypotheticals that it could be a jam, it could be a sitting area and just like a little bit more clarification there. I am concerned that when I look at the square footage of the Thimabee student, you know, Mr. Hurlick is right. Can you tell me on the smaller side? So the attention is yes, the community spaces, so shared dining, shared cooking. It's, it's, it's an integrated sense of community within the building and the neighborhood. So it isn't intended for shared cooking with indoor and outdoor. As Mr. Roberts just said earlier, there could also be co-working spaces. That's something that may be more important to people. Those COVID-19, as they're working more remotely, but kind of co-working offices that could be the gym fitness area in there. We've certainly community spaces in there as well. Okay, because my worry is that it's only 2,000 square feet that you're proposing to have a gym, cooking, co-working space. That's a lot of things too. Well, I'm a Mr. Chair of the problem in having with this. I'm doing Mr. Hurlick agrees, and I don't want book boards of his mouth is. I'm not sure that we're getting all of these in these amenity spaces or some portion of them, but it's clear that not all of this can functionally work in 20 hundred square feet. And I haven't heard an answer in terms of, you know, really what they'll be, what they'll be used for. It's really just more of an intentional, you know, these are the options. Here's the menu. If I may, I'm sure. So I just want to make sure that we're not confusing the outdoor space for the indoor and the space, because going from a DPDA board memo, completely indoor space is something like 11,000 all in. So it's not just the 2,000 outside. I'm just going to say we're having an issue because you represented that they would be 4,000 square, 4,701 square feet of amenity space on the second floor. And about half of that would be the outdoor deck. Right. And then it shouldn't they would be rooftop space for 2,000 square feet. So that doesn't come up to 11,000 in any way. Now that was, Madam Chair, that's just the, that's just usable open space under the zoning code. I was not speaking to amenity space under the compact living, I apologize. I was only speaking to useable open space for which we need variants. You know, I'm not sure it's worth beating this dead horse, but it appears to be that overall, I would suggest to the proponents that your presentation could have been tore better than it was. You exaggerated the amount of the square footage of the unit spaces. You have a lot of very small studios. That's fine. That's some of the compact living guidelines. And there was no, but there was no need to exaggerate it. And you, and you have over-enthusiastic the amount of amenity space. You know, you know, just what we want to know is what you've got. What's the proposal? What's on there? Well, we have the drawings. So I think there's been part of why you're hearing some frustration from the chair, from myself, from Mr. Lagerus. Because there seems to be a gulf between what is actually being proposed and how you're presenting it. And I don't appreciate that. And I, and I think you need to also understand that going through an article 80 process does not, does not mean that you just have a rubber stair when you come to this board. This is really where the relief is granted. And so you need to explain to us clearly why and what the relief is that you're requesting. And anyway, so I think I need to hear if there's anybody here to speak and support of this proposal. Yes, that's chair members of the board. It's called a new combination of neighborhood services. I just want to make sure you guys can hear me all right. We're going to record the support of this proposal. It went through a paper plus BPDA process with multiple IG meetings, the public meetings, both civic associations, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, the Austin Civic Service. The project's contracting changes, the percent affordability, IDP units, especially keep AMI, which is incredibly crucial for Austin neighborhood. The quality of living in Austin is a lot lower than other parts of the city. We're looking forward to this. They've also made commitments to the artist to some of the artists have an opportunity to stay in the neighborhood, which we believe is essential to keeping the character to make Austin unique. They've also made commitments to the Austin Public Service. We thank you again for the proposal. Hi, this is more of a question from Councillor Green's office. We'd like to go and record of being in support of this project. We do appreciate that they have gone up to 70% of units being IDP units. And as they have included affordable units or affordable artistly work units and an affordable, do you have a bedroom unit? Both of which, oh, you're Brighton, definitely need. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Consent and East Coast Habby George's office. We'd like to run records in support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, you have three people interested in speaking. Anthony, you've been unmuted. Good afternoon, everyone. Tony Dizadoro, Madam Chair, members of the board, representing the Austin Civic Association. I first want to commend members of the board for raising and having this discussion about the contact living pilot. It's a project to give some context was initially launched, brought it to the COVID crisis and the proponents feel to mention that this began as a traditional rental project and midstream decision was made to turn it into a mixed traditional and compact living project. And that occurred in the middle of the community review process. Just to speak more from a personal standpoint, the thumb reason the city has targeted Austin to be a laboratory for compact living projects. And if you think, you've seen this one wait for the next one that got approved by the BPD, a board to come to you. The concerns, this did not have overwhelming support in the ACA. The fact that it barely has that support is because they did address the affordability issue. They went up to 17%. They did a range of affordability. So all of that was appreciated. They also talked about restricting parking permits and putting in incentives for transportation and walking and biking and all that. So that's a good thing. But to add an additional three bedroom affordable unit, as you know, they only have two three bedroom units. And the major concerns expressed by the members who did not support this target is the lack of two and three bedroom units, quote, family friendly units, the number of units, the density, the unit sizes. And they questioned to some degree the affordability of the compact units. They make a case that because of the affordability that's come from these compact units that real people will move out of traditional housing and families and what have you can then occupy more traditional apartments established apartments in our community. As the chair has quite recognized, the data is very lacking as to whether that actually occurs. And to also express a regret, which kind of shows, because it surprised me about the presentation, but we regret the fact that since they appeared before us on May 2020, there has been no additional outreach to our since then, or even sure if additional changes were made. So I appreciate the conversation that took place. As I say, I have to present it in the ACAC that on balance, there was a slight, slight majority approving this, but we remain very skeptical about the compact living where we have asked. And just by the way, Madam Chair, last night we had a community meeting for another compact living private and entry street. They decided to pull back a bit and go to the high end of the size limits for the units in the compact living. That's what we've been asking these projects to do. Don't do the minimum. Go to the high end of the living area ranges. And that way, the way you help control density and parking and everything else. And the other major factor is one thing that has proven more and more people permanently will be working from home. And if these are to compete with other communities, they need to have units where people can sit and work and not be in their bedroom sitting on the bed with a laptop on their lap trying to do work. And a lot of these units simply don't equate to the new reality of living post pandemic in this city. And so I just wanted to pass those comments along. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, can I have somebody else? But I will ask the next few speakers to give us new information, please. Okay. Rosie Hanlon, when I'm muted. Hi there. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, everyone. My name is Rosie Hanlon. I'm a lifelong resident of the Alston Brighton community. I'm also a member of this IAC. I too, I'm going to echo Tony is saying that the micro units came in as an afterthought in the developers. We've had many, many conversations about the micro units. And I personally cannot see anybody living pre or post pandemic in a closet. Sorry, sorry. And so I'm really not sold on this as a benefit to this community at all. I think that it's too dense. I think Madam Chair, your spot on is a lot of development going on in Cambridge Street and the surrounding area. We need to take some really deeper looks at what we're putting into the community because it's not just a moment. It's going to be there for a long time. So I'm just to clarify you are on the IAC? Yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you. May I hear from somebody else? Please, Mr. Mastador. Minor Perez, you're going to mute it. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I'll always take a quick hard work to your title reviews. In behalf of Congress, a unique carpenter, so I want to go and record and support this project. Thank you. Okay, Martinis. Am I muted? Yes. Hi, Chair Martinez. I was also on the IAC. I want to echo everything that Tony said about this project. I'm not in support of it because the units are so small and the density of the project. The other thing that I'd like to point out, which just to put the cherry on it, unless there are restrictions, rental restrictions on units, whether it be affordable or not or compact or whatever, the developers are going to charge with the market will pay out. And you know, there's no such thing as a natural, affordable, rental market. People are in this business to make money and they're going to make as much money as they can. So unless the city decides to put some restrictions on the compact units, it really is not that relevant in terms of affordability. Thank you. Madam Chair, this is Robert Brown again, the architect from Perkinsville. No, we're here in testimony. Okay. John Woods. John, you've been unmuted. Okay, John. No, that's a come-off. Okay, I think we're all set. Okay, so given that information, board. Madam Chair, we have one letter of non-support. Okay, so what? Okay. We're at 451 Cambridge Street, concerns about parking. Okay, thank you. Given all the information that you've heard, please. I mean, I think from my perspective, I think it's fairly telling that people from the IAG are here in opposition and these are long-term residents of this community. I'm going to make a motion that in some ways is a little hard to stomach, but I'm going to make a motion for approval because there is a compact living policy in the city and if we are to adhere to that, then whatever my personal feelings may be, this is within those parameters. I'm also pretty upset about the nature of the presentation, but I am pleased with the 17% affordability. So I'm going to make a reluctant motion to approve. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'm going to oppose, Madam Chair. I'm opposed. So there's three oppositions from a six-member board, so the motion doesn't carry its denied. I'll make a motion to deny without prejudice. The procedure is to deny. It means we just don't want to see this proposal. The press can come in with another proposal. Okay. Madam Chair, I'm going to go back to the next case to be called earlier, the Payne Street. Payne Street is on. Calling BLA 114202225 Payne Street. Good afternoon, Madam Chairwoman. Mrs. Direct, let me read it to the record, Sarah. This directed to Family Dueling proposed four-arpe street parking, the Violations Article 67 Section 8, a two-family dwelling use is forbidden. They may be an address for the record plate. Stephen David, 6-on-1 High Street, Denim, Massachusetts. Good afternoon. So please tell us what you're proposing to do? Yes, Madam Chairwoman. This proposal is located in a 1F-6000 zone. The rot is 11,635-week. It's boarded by a nursery, landscape, plant-selling facility along Wauk Hill Street in a school that runs behind Pneud Street. The director bought it to my left at 25 Payne Street and is a single-family dwelling. I've heard no opposition from any of those three neighbors. It is also interesting to note at this point that there is a two-family dwelling at 55 Payne Street. Tell us about this proposal specifically. How many square feet and how is parking going to be accommodated? Yes, Madam. This is a duplex style side-by-side. The units are identical. We have three bedroom, two and a half bath units with a partially finished basement. There is to the left rear of a lot four parking spaces to for each unit. They are accessed by a single driveway running along the left-hand side of the lot. The reason that we're designing it this way is because we were trying to maintain some open space for these three-barrier and their units, probably family, occupied. We wanted to give the outdoor space for recreation for children and for other outdoor activities. They would become more popular during COVID. Has this address been for this board in the past? No, I know. I actually built two doors up and then ultimately purchased this lot for the purpose of developing it as a two-year-old building. Okay, hold on. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are adequate. I do have a question. You mentioned this. The basement, it does call a finished basement, it's partial. It's partially finished. It shows on the plan. We have a room for mechanicals, then a room for some sort of recreational space or another living area for children. No bedrooms? No bedrooms? No bedrooms. No bedrooms on the basement. I had just one other question which is a little strengthening as a lot. Why isn't the driveway against the commercial space versus against the Abunding Neighbor's House? Because we were trying to maintain the right rear corner for open, grassy play area. That sort of way of both units can access that. I mean, it seems like we could probably flip that if that was the concern of the board and without really detracting from our goals here. It was for kind of privacy. There's a fence that runs along the border with the nursery. So there's some privacy back there that we were trying to access. Thank you. We did leave a landscape burn that runs along the left side. It's my intention to plant that burn and also install a fence between my neighbor and myself. The neighbor was actually the seller of the property to me. We've come to an understanding and agreement on that. That sort of is for the unit the... All the other one. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe Coppin, Joe with the Mayor's Office and Evil Head Services. We would like to go on to recommend support noting that this project was met with community opposition because residents would like to keep it within the single family zoning. The mayor does not believe that this is totally out of character in the neighborhood as there is already a two family on the street and does not set the president. So again, we would just like to echo our support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand if no other let the members from somebody to speak. All right. All right, caller 7 642. You've been unmuted. Hi. Am I unmuted? Yes. Hi. Okay. Hi. My name is Tracy and I live on Tain Street and we have previously opposed this project on Zoom with the developers. And what he's talking about is far the school. The schools on a completely different street. And also he's talking about the nursery. The nursery is on a completely different street. I live on Tain Street and I oppose this variance for this developer to build a two family house. How's it? Tain Street is legally zoned for one family home by the city of Boston. This is one of the reasons why I thought my phone was. I have seen and I'm sure we all have seen the damage done to neighbors, puts and communities. We allow developers to take over and not follow the zoning rules. I believe this project would set presidents for other developers to follow if they can keep elderly bypassing the zoning holes. Again, I oppose this two family home. What's your address on things? My address is 89 Tain Street. The 55 that he's talking about was grandfather then all the rest of the homes on the street, which I believe is maybe 14 are one family home. He can we would be okay with a one family home, but not a two family home. Yeah, because I was recently down pain interestingly enough and it looked like you had a combination of buildings because it looked like you had like some buildings one in front of another. I inadvertently knocked on the wrong door and it looked like it was a two family dwelling. So I am just a little confused. Right, so they do have some kind one is behind the other and they have one family home. They're all one family home. The one that he's talking about was grandfather then years ago. So this all one family we want to keep in all my neighbors we have talked and we've had zoom meetings with developers before about this and we all oppose this. Okay, thank you. Anybody else to speak on this project? I miss a baby you've been admitted. I guess hello can you hear me? Yes. I guess I live about two blocks from the proposed project and I'm part of the Mount Hope Canterbury neighborhood association and I'm calling to support the residents of Pain Street in their desire to keep the zoning one family and do not make exception. So I oppose the project as designed. Thank you. And Rick, can you state your name and address? Rick Yoder? Yes, Rick Yoder, 180 Mount Hope Street in Rosendale, co-leader of the Mount Hope Canterbury neighborhood association and that that I oppose this project. That's not a reflection on the builder. He has a good reputation from the house he built, the single family he built. We'd love if you build a single family on this lot. There's actually 22 single family houses. A 21 single family houses is in this zone. It's a stand-alone zone surrounded by the commercial zoning to the west and the cemetery to the right. Only one house, the 22 units is a two family and as was mentioned it was grandfathered. You look at the assessor of the fort, the second machine. So Rick, can we hear from this master? Can we hear from Miss Beatman, please? Just, she just spoke. Oh, so Rick, okay, the Colin user? Yeah, which she are. Excellent. Give us that information. May I have a motion, please? Motion to the right? Is there a second? Second, Lakers. All those favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye. Is anybody opposed? Rick, Rick. Eric is. Eric. Eric. Eric. Eric. Eric. Eric. Eric. Eric. Opposed. Okay. Motion carries. It's now three o'clock. We're going to take a 10 minute break. And then we will start off with 604 East Broadway. Board members on. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Call on the first case. Page BLA 112, 1204, 604 East Broadway. This is a proposed restory addition above an existing local retail space to create six new residential units. A change of arcs from local retail space to local retail space and six dwelling units. The violation of the local 68 section 33, osprey parking is insufficient. Medical 68 section 8, the poll of the air ratio is insufficient. Medical 68 section 8, the high requirement is excessive. Medical 68 section 8, front yard setback is insufficient East Broadway Street. Medical 68 section 8. The front yard setback is insufficient on our streets side. Medical 68 section 8, the side yard setback is insufficient. six eight six eight the rear yet set back as in suppression. How to go 68 sexy may use the block of space as in sufficient. No, go 68 section 29. The roof structure restricted. Just give an anchor. Well, they're acting please. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair members, this matter was first to refer it because revised plans had not been approved by ISD. They have in fact been approved now. By calling the sitting chin he owns the building at 604-608 East Broadway. He also owns an operate C ground floor or the single story building the local convenience store that is there now. The proposal is to take what is effectively zero lot line building on the corner of East Broadway and I street to erect a three story vertical edition where there would be six proposed one bedroom dwelling units. As I say, the ground floor commercial use would remain in my clan would continue to operate it. The units range in size from 736 to 871 square feet. The height of the building would be 41 feet. The violations accrue all into the existing structure. As I said, doesn't meet any of the setback requirements. This is a vertical addition to the existing building. The off street parking violation is unavoidable as there's no way to add parking to this property. As I said, on East Broadway and it's a busy intersection at the corner of ISD. The usable open space insufficiency could be eliminated but my clan is not proposing a roof deck. This would be an unoccupied roof. In the violation only to roof structure restrictions, there was never anything proposed on the roof. That's being cited by the examiner simply because of the vertical addition is being viewed as changing the profile of the roof. But there is nothing being proposed for the roof in terms of an active use. With that, I'll pause and take any questions that the board may have. So this is not going to be an elevator building. Will you be having an accessible unit somewhere? Sorry, the trying to look at my plan, so the actually, I'm not sure the answer to that, Chair. I'm looking at, I don't see, you can walk down, see an elevator. I have to do not show an elevator Mr. Marancy. Correct, they don't and they don't show a lift. Sorry about that. They do not. We were not cited for that, which is why it hasn't come up. Okay. Any, how are the plans Mr. Robbins? The plans are fine. I do have some questions because I'm trying to understand the accessibility issue aside. It seems like there is a passageway on the back of the building, a ship against the building behind, but it's a little hard to see in the existing conditions. It actually seems like the building is touched. Are you, and you're building to the .7 lot line, which is the existing one story lot line, but then you're raising that up additional three stories. Just not sure exactly how you're facing with the building behind, especially as it relates to building and fire separation because there's windows and what it appears in that building behind. I don't even know this is a legal proposal. I guess. I mean, I'm not in the building code. I'm just trying to understand what's happening. The, sure, there is a, there's a common passageway in the rear. So the buildings aren't detached and the common passageway in the rear. It is contained within the deed for the 604606 East Broadway property. So there is a passageway easement there that's shown on the site plan 3.3 feet wide. And then there's the .7 setback. So there's four feet of separation distance between the two buildings. Okay. Okay. Any other questions from the board? So yeah, I got a question. I think Eric brings up a great point. What? So will there be a building 3.3 feet away from that second store window in the neighbor's house on the side street on ice street? Joe is going to be four feet altogether with the passageway and with the, with the .7 feet in there. Okay. But you know, the thing is we can, I mean, if it should this be approved, we could put a provisos for no building code relief. Any, any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support in this proposal? I'm Madam Chair, I'm members of the board, Haley Dillon, Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go and record and support and also note that the Gay to Heaven Neighborhood Association is also in support. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Caldera from Capsuleck's Link Office. We understand that this project has gone through the community process and several meetings both with neighbors in a bar as well as the gay to heaven neighborhood of the city. It is an understanding that they have been compromised on both sides and that the team has reduced the height to 41 feet. We present parking permits for rental units and bring the building flush to the street to safety concerns about people exiting windows on the left. The team is also removing the vehicle which was a quality of life concerns for neighbors. As a result, the Gay to Heaven Neighborhood Association has sent in a letter of support due to good faith-romises. We also ask for additional outreach for the team to favors and BPDA design review before we start the discussion. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, on behalf of the city council, Michael Flierry, as the board is well aware of the council's position regarding Article 68. However, in this particular instance, the Gay to Heaven Neighborhood Association is in support and the council has made exceptions for cases along the main commercial quarters along West Needs Broadway to encourage the development of vibrant mixed-use commercial district and we defer to that support. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Can I have a follow-up? I would like to echo the sentiments of council Flynn and that's what I would like to do. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have letters of opposition, letters of support as well. Mr. Morancy, I may have missed this and I apologize, but this is going to be condos or rental units. Mr. Ligris, these would be rental units. Thank you. Okay, based on that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll motion approve with BPDA Design Review. I'd also just add a provisional, no building code relief and no building code relief. Is there the second? Ligris will second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. All the next case, calling BOA10685819, Vat. Childhood Street. Does there a renovation of a two-failment unit? The finished space was two-bedroom unit two and added door and two-bedroom and the attic and roof deck. The violation is Article 50, Section 29. The authority raised to the excessive. Article 50, Section 29. The user will open the space as insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. The front yard is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. The side yard is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. The rear yard is insufficient. May I address further, I can please? Is the applicant here for this project? I don't see any hands raised on my hand. It's almost. I don't see the applicant here. I'll check the panel. Item Chair, it's 323. I'll make a motion for Denai. I will do it. I'll do it. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. The next case, calling BOA105467944 Glendale Street. This has built a new four-story 90-unit building. The violation is Article 65, Section 41. Proposed to the obf street loading requirement. Proposed parking is insufficient. Article 65, Section 8. MFR has been used in a 2F6000 sub-district. Article 65, Section 9. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. What is insufficient? Article 65, Section 9. Lot of frontages insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. The full area ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9. The building hides excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9. The building hides excessive in feet. Article 65, Section 9. The front yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. Side yards insufficient. An article 65, Section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon. Once again, Madam Chair, members of the board. Matt Ecklet with Drego and sent with the business address of 11 Beacon Street on behalf of the applicant. Also with me is Eric Uzakerson from Context, the project architect. I should note this project has been modified from what was written to the record and significantly reduced. We are now seeking to erect a three-story building with three units and three parking spaces on this vacant lot. So we were able to eliminate some of those violates bins that were read and tortured. Sorry again, it's three stories and three units. That is correct, Madam Chair, with three parking spaces. Okay. So in doing so, we eliminated the parking violation. We now have one of the one parking ratio. We can eliminate building. Is the owner of this? The app is Chris Kroll. Mr. Jari. If you go up to the next, I'm going to recuse myself. Just be smart. I just want to ask a question. Yeah. Okay. So, um, so your lock area is still going to be insufficient. Locked with lock frontage. So your FAR and your height is going to change. That's correct. So building height and feet. We have eliminated that violation. We're at 31 feet six inches. Allowed is 35. Side yard. We now comply and have 10 feet on either side. So that's been eliminated and reyard. We have about 30 foot set that now. So the other violations would remain. But we did eliminate those four. Okay. So, um, Okay. So this is an infill, right? So, we're going to have to go up to the next. Right. It's currently a vacant lot. Yes. So new three story ground up construction manager. Two F 6000 district. And the lot is just under 5,000 square feet. Okay. And, um, will those carriages in the back be staying? Will they be knocked down? So the garage is will be eliminated to allow for the parking. So the driveways existing right now. So, we're going to have to go up to the next. And then the parking would be aligned. As you can see in this picture right in front of you with three across. We did leave some landscaping area, which you can see on one of the other plans for some screen amp offering that garage would be raised. And at least two or three bedrooms. So these are all very similar layout. There are three bedroom units, about 1,350 square feet. And then the floor by floor. You can see three bedrooms with a master with a large master closet and bathroom. There's also and working with the community. They wanted to see these family styles with extra storage, washer, dryer. So you can see right in the middle of the plans there. We do have a large space to be noted for that. So they're all three bedroom units to bass. Okay. Collette, can you scroll so we can see. See a little bit more in the meantime. How are the plans Mr Robinson? The plan sir, they're fine. Is the roof.