 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you as Dalai you as Sequence Sequence equal to feet. We have a 12 foot 9 7 on the right, which is where another butter lens and on the left it abuts land, which is owned by the BPDA or five feet from that. Open space, we're at 17, they're 1750 per unit. We are at 814 square feet and use because we're doing more than two units in the 2F 5000. We are sighted for multi MFR multi-family residentialists for a bin. As I stated this went through a long process. We tried to work with the abutters with respect to parking. Initially when the proponent first met with the abutters early on, his proposal because it's a 2F 5000 and he has over 9,000 square feet. He wanted to do two separate buildings with three units in each building. They thought it would be better if they merged into one because it would be less curb cuts, less pavement, less taking up a broken space and things like that. So he came up with this plan and did get reduced from a 6 to a 4. And again the last time the 4 parking spaces up 6 were moved to the back because obviously front yard parking is a violation that has since been removed. I'm here to answer any questions and James Christopher is with me as well and he can walk you any designs. Thank you for your help. Mr. Pajini, have there been any changes to the project number? You can count anything else? Well, you can count yes. So initially, chair it was six units and that was reduced down to four units. And as I stated, you know this is a 2F zone but it's 2F 5000. We have a 3 family condominium, a 3 unit condominium directly to our right when you're looking at the project. So we feel like it's consistent. It's a vacant lot. There'll be no displacement. You know, it's a place that needs housing. You can walk from there easily to high park avenue to get bus, you get the bus to forest hills and beyond as well as you know walking to the village in Rosendale Square, you know, for nightlife and also for commuter rail and busing to forest hills coming down Washington Street. And so just to confirm when you when you had initially brought this to the board last year, it was a six and you've since downside into a four. That is crack manager. Okay. That's helpful to know in the context of there are no current opposition letters that I see but there were plenty previously. So I'm sure Mr. Namin can respond to that shortly. Any other questions from the board? Given that's location to public transit, why do you need six parking spaces? That's a very good question. Initially, you know, as you guys know in Rosendale and I park it's two parking spaces per residential unit. Initially we had the neighbors were very concerned about parking in this neighborhood, guests and wayward bay parking things like that. So that's why we're at six. I mean, flow would make more sense because you're doing four units and it would take up less open space and that would increase our open space that it was some like to please the above us. Are there any accessible unit? Are there any ADA units in the building? Yes, there would be one ADA building in the building. Okay. I don't know. I guess I don't understand how that translates to the way the parking spaces are drawn out. Whether or not that an ADA space is required and therefore fits with the layout there. So that's a question I have. So we will have an ADA parking space mistake as well. We have room on sites to accommodate that. Okay. I agree with the other questions though in the comment around why does this require six spaces and it seems to leave the rear of the lot with less desirable space for residents to use? You know, I mean, mistaken, you know, how this process goes, right? I mean, you go into and you look at what letter is in there, talking about, you know, little, little parking on this street and things like that. And we did have a lot of parking up front, which obviously is the board knows is not the ideal situation. So when we approved, when we presented in December, the board was like, wow, this is a good project now. However, we still have the parking in the front. We want to see that in the back and we're able to do that. And that's why the last occur will happen. Thank you. Are you planning on further people paying a paving and any landscaping opportunity here? That's a very good question to spin out of. There's a ton of landscaping opportunity because the building is set back from the street. So we can do that and also buffering along the side where our butter is live. And as I stated, when you're looking at the building to the left, that land is open to the is owned by the BPA. So at some point, I'm sure something will be an IRFP or something we put out for that. But we will be doing extensive landscape design, landscape buffering. And obviously, the parking is now in the rear. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Okay, does that have public testimony? I, yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New Movement, the Airsoft, Snapertood Services. This time, the mayor is about to defer to the judgment of this board. My apologies. I don't have a lot of information. Like I said, we've had some personnel changes. I do have from the count from February 28th. We had seven letters of support of this proposal and seven signatures in opposition for letters in opposition. Some of the butters had some concerns with parking and proximity to plot lines on the area. We also know that St. Rep, Ron Consolvo had also expressed his concerns at the time with that will defer to the board. Thank you. Mr. Newman, are you aware of the concerns about parking or what that there's too little, too much? Or I think there's always a desire from the community to see more parking with concerns regarding, you know, overflow out onto the street. It's okay. Thank you. But I have new Madam Chair, members of the board, Jordan Frazier, Chancellor of the Department of Rewards Office. I'd like to go on recommended support of this. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Tom Manu, Councillor Aaron Murphy's office. Councillor Murphy at this time would like to go on record of this project and it's also written a strong letter of support for it. Thank you. Cindy, good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. I've sent you views from the Council members of the Rewards Office. I would like to go on a point and support the project. Councillor of Rewards Office. I think I just wanted to ask you guys to hear me. Okay, sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. No worries. We're going to buy a breakbox and just fill that. Yes, Bob, please. We have Joan? Bob, yeah. Okay, Bob, go ahead. Madam Chair and members of the board, Bob, the main building, TV. I'd like to request that the number of parking spaces be reduced to four, increase and width, and this will lead to more opportunity to put more green space and act as a better butter, that's a tough one to say, to those that are going to live behind and outside of this project. And it also improves maneuverability as well. Thank you. You have no additional raise hands, thanks. Was this person general speaking? I think she's here for another project. She's such a care for her since the year we're all in the child. Hello. I'm so sorry. It just upgraded me to a can list so my Zoom reset for a second. My apologies. Thank you for your understanding. I am the direct butter to 68 row. I speak on behalf of all of the neighbors. I do have a prepared statement, but I just I know that there were some questions about the parking. So I just wasn't sure if he would like me to address what those concerns were before I mentioned the other piece. I just want to be respectful of everyone's time. So I wouldn't read off the full statement if you could just briefly tell us what the opposition is based on. No problem. Thank you so much. Again, hello and good afternoon. My name's Jill Fatter Schneider. My address is 74 Roast Street. I'm the direct butter to the watt at 68 row. Again, I speak on behalf of the neighbors and main points are as follows. The first is really just surrounding the zoning codes and how the zoning really for Rosendale is around it being you know more of a community neighborhood. This structure doesn't really align with the other homes in the area. It sets a precedent for other proposals and it's also not mentioned that this law directly abuts as well in MBTA quarter. The commuter rail goes directly behind and so I'm just concerned about you know it has the MBTA have any say into this onto how it abuts their rail. Secondly, the building of this magnitude is really going to encroach upon the privacy of the neighbors and their small children. It's zone for two family home as the lawyer did state but the four duplexes really is actually encroaching quite a bit. In all of the community meetings that have been held since I believe it's been 2020, the entire neighborhood is vehemently opposed to this. As one of the other members had stated there have been approximately 20 letters in opposition. Someone had mentioned that there haven't been letters since the reason being for that is basically anything above what it's zone for the neighborhood is opposed. So like that it was on the neighbors for not realizing that we had to continue sending letters so apologies for not realizing that protocol but there's definitely significant disproval for an oversized proposal on this lot. There also has been testimony regarding and I know a letter had been submitted. I don't have access to that one regarding the question of fill on this land according to the city of Boston's assessing website the land is listed as unusable. So there is actually questionable fill as to the structure of the land itself and whether it whether or not it's sound enough to support a structure especially of this size. Another note that is a bit misleading on the plans is that the side where they mentioned that it abuts the Rosemild Woods it actually is quite a steep slope. So if you are going to really be encroaching on what the the border should be I think it's actually a structural issue where if you're not going to be doing something to support that slope what does that mean you know for a risk of I don't have all the terminology I'm holding but basically it's a very steep slope so if you're going to build a large structure that's encroaching on that land I would question the safety especially where there is record of questionable fill. Can you please wrap up thank you. Can you address her question about a couple of her poster? Absolutely I'm out of chair. I think most importantly you know what she said because this project has changed several times as we stated at the beginning of it right we started at six units of parking was at front went down to four units of parking was at front the parking was moved to the back her statement was anything they didn't have to update their letters because anything about the zoning the neighbors are opposed the woman who just lives in a three family condominium directly adjacent to this project that is not compliant with zoning so under her own standard the her own property what she's living in would not exist this day so you know we've done everything we can we have worked with people there's no displacement this is empty land this is vacant land that's just being unused city needs housing it is a unique shape lot I agree with the board member who suggested the floor and also Mr. Domingo who suggested the floor parking spaces however you know when you're in the community setting it's sometimes it's it's difficult to explain to people you know which way the city's going in when they're saying well zoning requires two parking spaces per unit and again we move the parking to the rear if you look at the about property to our right the parking is in five hours so and through that that was going to be a point that she touched on that is my response to that thank you any other questions from the board okay with that man man motion motion to approve with bpda design review and a provisional that here one parking spot per unit instead of a five or four parking spots and a second so I can all right mr. Collins we're voting yes sorry about that we have a dog on it too okay mr. Nato yes mr. Aiken on yes mr. Sanbridge yes mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes chair also votes yes motion carries thank you very much today good good to meet you time next case the B.O.A. 140430 the address of 19 to 21 standards street is the applicant on the rest of the weather yes sir yes yes uh is the four mine yes thank you um now i'm chairman of the board my name is Kyle Smith of statero law i business address of three five nine new birth street and Boston back bay is indicated by our time slot this is a reconsideration today the second time being before the board we did have an original hearing on february the seventh for which we had kind of run through the physical components of the project which as presented again before you today is not changing in any capacity at the original zba hearing there was a request and motion to defer which caring for us to complete a you know somewhat imperfect community outreach process to specifically engage with the river street civic association um i know that the mayor's representative will be on the line to speak us to that but just want to let you know as that was the causes of deferral we did have our presentation before river street civic association um we did receive a unanimous vote of approval with one abstention uh we do have the support of as it was kind of a critical component of the river streets uh both of approval we do have the approval in writing as presented to september hands for our immediate about to the left to the right and immediately across the street um so i'm happy to kind of go through the project again for you if you'd like but the critical requirement of the board as of february seventh was to reengage with river streets association which i think we have done um completely and we do have their written letter of support on the record this number do you have that letter uh i'm looking towards um through the letter come uh i came from the river street civic association unfortunately only as of 1158 pm last night as forwarded to steffini hands this morning okay yes from the river street civic association um and they are well they don't say one word uh think they are on record in support of the project thank you any other letters or in support of opposition mr. secretary uh there are other letters in support um i don't see yet any letters of uh thank you i do have some and some letters in opposition okay thank you sorry mr uh kyle please proceed the problem um so importantly the letters of support additionally are from immediate about our to our left immediate about our to our right and across the street um would you like me to run again through the proposed project uh briefly focusing on the violations certainly um this uh prior board had approved in 2012 the approval of this uh conversion to a three family um this proposal is to effectively the sole exterior envelope changes are to put a set of uh dormers on the left side of the structure on the roof line as we're looking at it uh to effectively add two bedrooms to the existing third floor living area at x-base uh to put a rear deck uh are decking to the rear of the structure those are the only proposed exterior changes interior there's some reconfiguration of living space and specifically the expansion of the structure for living purposes into the um basement level which would render the first unit a combined duplex first and uh basement level um importantly knowing you know the prior board is concerned about basement level living we have uh one internal means of egress we have two full external means of egress uh the board has elevations before them for review of these items but we do have some um you know i think kind of safe elevations with sake of multiple means of egress uh to show window wells in the front right portion of the building which is a uh bedroom also has a a full exposure as well um so that is kind of high arching uh the view of the of the project of the board have previously heard as February the 7th which again is not changing anyway thank you any questions from the board can you just ceiling pipe to the basement uh uh ceiling height uh they did have to dig down to provide adequate ceiling heights the ceiling height is uh you know certainly up to color and i believe it's pushing uh seven and a half feet and the questions from the board okay hearing men may have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board car and human with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time the mayor is also selected to defer to the judgment of this board our office held in the butters being on November 21st of 2022 uh the applicant then went on to meet with the reverse tree civic association which offered their support in the proposal saying the great confidence at the applicant will continue to communicate with his neighbors and ensure this project is complete in a time of the matter that best suits everyone affected by our office also received i believe uh looks like three letters in support and one in opposition uh without we defer to the board at this time thank you good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is i am i de la lila from the office of council brine will rel in regards to 19 to 21 standard street having received uh three letters of support one at which from the uh civic reverse tree um the council would like to go on record in support of projects thank you the madam chair have no additional instruments thank you with that may have a motion but i'm sure i'd like to put forward a motion to approve the project with with me being in the aid the san kravill thank you madam second thank you mr. palan's yes mr. pilato yes mr. eakin yes mr. san brench yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes chair also goes to us motion carries thank you madam chair they give him to the board uh prior to moving forward on the rest of these cases um jumping ahead to the one p.m. hero is there any request for withdrawals for the first of that time period hearing none will then move on to case b o a one three four eight nine zero five which is dressed being 120 to 124 baps in street is the applicant or the representative president yes do you and i have many doubt for representing the the client i believe the the clients are actually on the call very good you want to see the project yes so the project is uh is is reconverting existing vacant building uh in american square which has been vacant for years uh not being utilized and actually there's a lot of dumping having on the site so but what what what my clients were posing is turning into 14 elderly housing units with uh with with support on the ground floor in terms of elderly uh daycare that will provide services and and function for for the for the tenants and also for for neighborhood elderly that needs to use it so uh right now we we are we are proposing to keep the building intact and basically do some work on the interior uh uh locating the uh elderly daycare and programs on the ground floor uh and using the top three floors to provide to provide the units uh along with the security offices support offices uh and and and and other and other needs uh for for the for the programs uh we we intend to do some very intensive landscaping work right now we have not engaged really you know landscape architecture yet but certainly something to do on which that to do and not work with the bba if we are approved and also be sure to go to iSD right now the the dark the dark shade you've seen now basically presents the opportunity for green space for the only places that that is that that will not be green on the side will be the the part that you see as white where you see the parking everything else the way is where you see the dark shades will be will be landscaped spaces that will provide uh nice uh and terms of uh aesthetics uh feel for the neighborhood compared to what is right now which is missing me kind of a loving yard to move uh if you move up on the on the on the next slide which is very similar on the floor plans to the next slide if you have it yeah so so this is this uh this is basically just kind of an analysis of the of the of the of the of the occupancy uh where where on the top on the top floor here you'll see this well we'll have the elderly uh a dk space then on then on the on the other on the other floors which is very typical except for the first floor where we'll have on the white inside spaces for a for like a security office a managers office uh um um say you're you're muted i must have hit something by mistake it's fine but i think that on the next floor plan on the next slide you'll be able to see the floor plan part of our trip uh this is kind of the demo plan you can skip that this is where this is an existing favorite road to the demo work then uh to the next one so this is this is the typical of uh what the unit will look like there will all be one bedroom handicap accessible units uh uh that would that would be offered to to elderly that can live independently but surely there will be some support on set on site if they if they need to so so what the client is trying to do is it's for for something that is entirely for the neighborhood a place where where you actually have independent living for for for elderly folks and also having that program down set that they they can choose to to attend a therapy so so this is basically the uh this is basically a unit time you can see on the left-hand side unit type A and the right-hand side unit type B does appear about three unit types and the building so they're all very generic spaces uh in another another unit type very generic with uh uh with uh with nice vaginal kitchen open floor plans and the cat packs of bathroom large closets uh I think maybe in the next five you miss the elevations yeah we should we under change the only thing we do in the elevation that's changing if we are providing uh handicapped ramps to allow you to get into the uh to the front and inside of the building we're also going to be introducing a new up by not the building does not have an elevator or providing other that will that will take you down to the ground floor up to the church floor so so the picture will be fully handicapped accessible thank you so welcome to my name now all right can you confirm that this goes through article 80 process this is not article 80 uh okay we we were here we saw each and uh and one of the feedbacks when we see if there was we just had down to below 15 units and then the the clients of uh eager to get going and they wanted to move the boxes along so they were they they took over to we just gonna be introducing them but also provide more open space into the building so they're for the residents god thank you any questions word um with the 14 units what's going to be the price range of the rents i think that's something that's still being decided by my client in terms of what's what's possible but i think the intent is to have you be as affordable as possible uh so i don't think they they have uh i don't know if they hear they they they may be able to speak to them but i do believe that uh these will be affordable uh how the elderly units that i don't think of price point as well if they're not notified so they they they may end up working with some senior programs to to to to grow other than it and like that but uh well it's it's subject to i.v. p so it has some can you speak to those units when you move green that inclusionary it's it's subject to the inclusionary development in this ordinance so can you speak to that well i think or initial initial uh go was to maybe try to get through the cba process and then develop the the program further and and get into those kind of details we have to be asked you we have not done that quite yet uh we do understand that we will have to meet those obligations yeah i think we typically hear what that you understand the obligations and that you're committed to meeting the ordinance so yes you need to tell us how many units i.v. p units will be included in the project i this is actually i'm also part of the project can everyone hear me yes sir um the harmful is only to provide the health of low income elderly um member of the community so um every unit will be for low income okay thank you i understand but i but mr. misplanato's point you you do have to designate a minimum amount uh which in your case would be two that are income restricted okay committed to that yeah thank you other questions from the board uh is there any meal service or these are really independent housing units and are there any community you know is there a meal facility here um there will be no new system at these are really independent housing units okay thank you and you remind us a little bit more of who the client is who who is developing this and what the experience is with developing affordable elderly housing with uh with with adult take care so i think the the owners may the client may want to chime in but i uh as far as uh a part of operating an adult take here on my client's friend via operate two of them one in Boston and one in the city of denim so they do have they have a lot of experience dealing with uh with adult take care and providing that service they've had it i think for almost 10 years now they've been operating to separate adult take care of the very successful uh uh i would and the the housing piece is new uh and and and that's where i come into to provide the support into the design but uh but uh but they certainly this is a these are clients are very well versed and and and elderly needs and and they've been operating to adult take care of the city and uh in that i'm for two years for almost ten years now okay and then i have one follow up uh question and i'm chair but just in terms of the the site design uh i mean i think you know obviously we're focused on it's forbidden to know their lead housing is a use in the conditional day care but as we look at the the site plan here and as you mentioned it's going to be all affordable income restricted which would mean that you could alter the number of parking spaces possibly have you chosen to have the patio for the residents to be basically as far away from the building as possible uh just seems to run in congruent with population that may have some limited mobility and do you have a lot of other open space options so yeah i'm curious to hear the comment but i imagine if we take this forward there needs to be further bpda design review yeah yeah i mean i would be just just just would be going to the bpda and we'll be able to use the product to go get different options i mean the one i think one of the things we were thinking is is is allowing the the patio space to be in more quiet part of the site what the clients can actually enjoy some kind of a quiet time away from the from the traffic it's kind of a visit corner and also away from the parking coming in and out so uh you know uh we have providing some parking spaces because i you know we uh more than we need that bit uh that we will have that uh they share uh downstairs that you know that will there will be some employing parking means there will be some um visitor needs so we're providing that but the reason why we decided to put it at that end of the slide was opt-off it's certainly the open different interpretation of different ways of looking at it we're providing a kind of a respite for the clients is the place that we're making go and just in the city down on a quiet and have a conversation with you man we'll try to pass on boss off thank you thank you the questions from the board may i have public testimony yes madame chair members of the board the corner newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services at this time the mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of this board our office heldman butters meeting on September 1st 2022 where it was likely attended the applicant went on to meet with um a butters insecure uh a petition from 29 surrounding businesses in the area that expressed support for this proposal um they took a deferral to decrease the size so to not go through an article 80 process um they met with the greater matter pan neighborhood council um which expressed that they would like to see the applicant return back to the gmnc and present to the full board um the recommendation is this follows recommendation from gmc borders they have the proponent present before the larger gmnc body proponent do not present any benefits to the immediate community it was pointed out that the proposed tenants were existing users of the proponents daycare sites gmc board wants insured that a larger audience hears the proposal uh the applicant said they'd be happy to propose happy to meet with the uh with the greater matter pan neighborhood council but express concerns that um if a vote was deferred today for the cv decision this could dramatically impact uh the financial feasibility of the project with that will defer to the board thank you thank you hi boss yes yes i um bob de meco btd uh matter chill 80 and members of the board um i think this is a great project but i'm just thinking of the convenience of those gaining access and egress to the parking area and um there will be loading and unloading regardless of this not being a business there will be times when deliveries will be made and i would like to see uh the area where deliveries could park because if there isn't then there'll be blocking parking spaces and finally um i would like to see the uh what the uh fordage is for the parking spaces only because i just want to make sure this ample convenience for anyone gaining access to the parking area and those gaining access in egress um just to make sure that it's gonna be easy from all the visitors to like i said gain access in egress so i'd like to see the uh the measurements of the parking uh spaces just to make sure um that everything is okay uh because when you think of who's going to be coming and going i think it's uh very important that we uh know these dimensions thank you yeah i can address that um the the the parking spots themselves uh uh uh uh 10 by 20 um she's looking more than a nine by 18 that you normally require we have the aisles more than 20 feet wide so certainly uh and you know before we go i see we certainly will make sure that all that is directly into construction that level but also you know if you would be a pda if the board wanted to put this provide so but i do hear your concerns about being able to uh fordage every and that impact uh deep the parking area socially uh good look at ways where uh maybe uh uh because this is on a corner site so there could be a where where we could create another entry on uh on the other street just for delivery that will not impact the current focus parking area probably take a little bit out of the green space but certainly that it's a big site you know we're not we're not adding to the building so the building of a well keepers historic look so uh we have a lot opportunity to create something uh advice rise the uh grounds of concern that that will certainly meet all these concerns uh just a minor issue if you um construct another curb cut that'll change the project from a traffic and parking perspective um you know quite a bit well okay so what's going on I think one day i'll meet me already exist but what's only we'll take a look at that but like i said uh there uh even on map sensory itself there are two curb cut on that street and we'll put it right now to block one to provide my green space so sherry need one open to allow for the curb for the uh for the delivery issue that you're bringing up but you know like i said there are so many opportunities on this site actually uh you know we were proposing more parking than we need so we wanted to be far the the amount of resources much as far as possible so certainly we we're there are ways for us to address the concern you have while we go to the bda process okay well thank you so much it's a wonderful project i think you want to make sure uh it works well for all those that'll be visiting uh this is not good and uh thank you so much for your concern thank you uh uh maybe sure this is obvious i just a clarifying question uh the number of units were reduced is the parking number also reduced i think that's on the plain no the parking was not reduced we reduced the number of units and then we we kept the parking the same okay thank you thank you um but uh chair one follow a question well while we understand it's under 15 units now small project review has a 20,000 square foot threshold and it looks like the drawings say you have 24,000 square feet of space so i i don't know if Jeff Hampton is still on or someone i'm not quite sure i understand why at over 20,000 square feet this isn't small project review unless there's some other mitigating factor that resulted in that so i'm just not clear on that piece well i mean i think the building over building itself maybe 24,000 the program itself is a lot less than 20,000 square feet but there's a lot of you know this is in all school there's a lot of uh uh uh uh uh uh uh areas that will not be used there will there will be a lot of uh i mean nothing you can count the utility areas and things like that uh to the square foot threshold so if you if you were to add up the programs i think we i think we will end up somewhere around 18,000 square feet 18,000, 20,000 square feet and Jeff is in a meeting yeah i'm just a little bit more would be helpful on the proponents experience managing affordable senior housing and in whether there's going to be a management company involved how's the management going to happen for this project so we plan on having a management company manage the security so there will be the ones that would be managing the leaves saying um the maintenance and the full operation of the building while on the bottom end of the adult health center we will be managing it as we do the other content um the other content are for IBM you'll see there's one on two in the parkway and there's one on 60-lose-the-treatment data so we just really got those yeah i understand yeah i understand the experience with the adult take care and then and you talked about 100% affordable so have you applied for for public funding to you know being able to provide units affordable units we actually have and i did meet with um with the company and so they've asked for a couple of documentation as well as some plans and um some specfutes that the access is to lots of them so we need to hear that so there's applications into the city in the state for funding or or do you not know um the application is like for us to get funding so yeah it is it's with the city i can provide more details with your life as the who we who we spoke to does that answer your question with penado? sure enough? i know. sort of it seems a little out of seat. miss penado i think fills a little out of sequence i feel like we're hearing also that it's going to be 100% income restricted but that has to be captured somewhere especially if it doesn't go through article 80 small project so that has to be captured here too. yeah it's it's a little confusing it's it's typically right it would go through a city funding process and then go to zba because it takes sometimes years to get that funding um and things change over time. it just seems premature to be in front of us. are you asking for any funding project? or are you asking the point to um market low funding units for the for the potential uh people for the potential credit? we we um set out the application for funding on our own um but that set up into this project our goal is to provide low income apartments for the potential credit um but we do spend on getting additional funding of our own so we plan on getting additional loans to fund this project but the people who we want to cater to are low income elderly and that's we want to cater. if i can just jump in i think the burden uh is is on the client actually i mean me there the overall goal of the uh uh uh 100% affordable housing i mean i by the IPD IPD environment there will at the minimum they will have to provide the two the two units as affordable so that's that's a given and i think i think what the goal is is to exceed that and if i think a lot of that they're thinking uh they'll push by nine to its seniors their own funding if needed to accurately make that happen it's kind of a goal of turning this building into this community uh dual for sort of for the neighbors i think as far as uh we've come here right now for this for this board is is is trying to get uh get to the uh uh the long process of dealing with the BPD and and and and and and this would this could take a little while before we actually can go to iSD for permitting so all this could be happening concurrently but uh uh uh i think the burden on them to actually meet uh to to to to achieve their goal having the entire building be uh available to to to uh low income tenants is on them but the overall climate okay but but that's only possible with significant public subsidies right i think the only thing we could say right now is we're looking at a project that uh is seeking relief for 14 independent elderly housing units plus a don't think health uh i don't think we can speak to the affordability other than their their IDP requirements so they can just uh uh uh they can say whatever they like about the other stuff but what i see before us is 14 units with the minimum uh IDP units required and that is what we should consider i don't share that's what i was struggling to say thank you that's correct i won't i won't make a motion to approve subject to bpda and btd design review um and and with a provisal that they seek to maximize compliance with IDP and affordability and that there be some bpda bpda attention to landscaping well i have a second very good okay mr. Collins yes yes mr. Aiken uh yes i just wanted to be on the record too that i'm not clear how article 80 small project did not apply um but the provisors seem helpful in capturing it so thanks you yes mr. Stubbridge yes mr. Shouper yes mr. Valencia yes the chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you very much next we have the re-company cases first being v0a129 609 to the address 23 kilowatt street second case b0a129 609 3 the address 27 to 29 kilowatt street and the third is case b0a129 609 for the address being 49 dentistry are you the applicant or representative present mr. Naylor or mr. Smith just gonna do you have a DCA either applicant let me see man i'm sure i just have a thousand to notify us but we notify them they have to show up for starting yes it's just look to something else because i'm like okay so they so all right so what do you do you recommend do you want yeah they're not here i recommend that if you want okay uh may i have a motion deny without prejudice thank may i have a second second thank you mr. Collins yes he's been on bill yes mr. Aiken yes mr. Sanbridge yeah mr. Shouper mr. Valencia yes chair also votes yes motion carries on your call so we move on to case b0a133 209 5 the address of 130 marginal street is the applicant go through the representative present yes thank you madam chair members of the board of attorney Jeff Trago and Trago in Tuscano with the business address of 11 beacon street here on behalf of the applicant Noel de Carlo and i also have Adam Glassman the architect who's here as well on the call the proposal which this rendering here shows the proposed building is to erect a new residential a four unit building with three interior parking spaces to go along with that building on a vacant on a vacant lot this particular sub district zoning sub district is a three f 2000 and our lot size so over that it's 2,800 and third room square feet i figure the next slide please matter of the bathroom this shows the existing parcel you can see the building to the left of ours is an apartment complex at four stories our building match match that with an included parking on that ground level if you see the the two family building the yellow building that's pushed back my client purchased that building as well and has agreed with the community to keep that building and then maintain and landscape the front which we worked on with the jeffries point neighborhood association and our direct debuts as you go a little further you can see our first floor would house the main entry of the building it would also house our bedroom and a trash room in our parking area the second floor on the project would house unit one in unit two that's a 450 square foot studio and a two bedroom 962 square feet as we go up to the third floor we have a three bedroom unit at 1355 square feet a minimum floor or two bedroom at 1483 square feet we worked with community outreach on this project for over a year a year and a half and in that process we've made a number of changes to the project one of them is removing our side decks in increasing our side yard in rear yard our rear yard is now 35 feet one inch of the recommendation that that's what we followed from the ppda board was to recommend support with emphasis on reducing the decks and the rear yard and that's what we did so we now have 35 feet one inches our setback to the building at 28 feet seven inches from our rear porches those rear porches also serve as a second me to egress from the building we also sprinkler have a opposing a sprinkler system on those rear porches as well as non-combustible material in working with our rear water suggested that we also have in place a landscape plan in the rear of this property an extensive plan that we've worked neighbors on a rear of 130 but also in the front of 132 just to go over the zoning violations one minimal lot size required we would be a thousand square feet additional would be required our FAR although in our changes to be brought it down from 1.74 to 1.69 what's allowed was 1.0 so we still need an FAR variance the height of the building is 36 feet 35 is what's allowed under the code we are at four stories when we do have a four-story building to the left of us our side setbacks which we increased are now two foot five on the left which meets the code but then two feet on the right so we slightly unders parking just to go over so that parking spaces are all interior we have three we originally had had four but our rear gutters and side of butters asked us to push that building in further along with the BPDAs recommendation so we did lose one spot but it really helped with the functionality of the existing three spaces this is an ideal location it is still with a short walking distance to Maverick T station right across the street from Paris Park and with that I cannot pause for any questions mr. Draco any questions from the board okay hearing done may I take over customer yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor of soft neighborhood services this time the mayor soft looks deferred to the judgment of this born oh and s host and a butters meeting for this proposal on June 7th of 2022 some of butters express concerns regarding the lack of parking in the area the height of the building in the rear decks other butters complemented the aesthetics of the design and the developers willing this to work with the community throughout the process the app can also met with the Jeffries Point neighborhood association in June on September and October the group voted to oppose the project with 18 residents voting against in seven in support those in opposition express concerns regarding parking our office received 40 letters of support one of them coming from a direct to butter and we also received 13 letters in opposition to those coming from residents from the city of Chelsea without we deferred to the judgment of the board thank you thank you sorry any other elected officials office but we get to the correct see councilor Caladas office are you looking to go cross the money here? but afternoon madam chair members of the board in line down with councilor Caladas office based on the Jeffries point neighborhood associations community in opposition the council would like to go on record as in opposition at this time thank you thank you John okay minor oh anyway can you stay to name a match please I am John I Sally I live a 136 module street I'm a direct the bottom to at least project I would like to say that my wife and I are supported this project we feel that it fits the neighborhood well the developer some has worked with us in the neighborhood to make several changes with the project and we and they have made those changes also if you may recall years past a larger project was a proposed for this project in the neighborhood called the most inappropriate and board rejected as I said we think this project they sense it fits the area and my wife and I are in complete support of speak about it on the lot of 130 marginal street thank you Peter yeah Peter Rain if I was to speak I just want to go into record set up and support this and more housing less cars less parking thank you a minor thank you madame bazaar one of her is for the carbon transceena would like to go to record support is great thank you stay connected can you stay to name an address for the record please let us know if you're in support of opposition okay Adam with last minutes sending a request a mute I'm sorry I'm actually I was just trying to get get led in as a presenter on the architect the project oh okay sorry about that okay michelle okay hi um yeah I'm looking at two lamps in court yep michelle let along go two lamps in court unit one I'm in support I appreciate that they're keeping the existing yellow house and I really like the design the fact that they listen to the neighbors thank you and stay connected are you looking to give testimony here yes okay go ahead can you state your name and address for the record yes trace a drum 80 cottage street unit one I really like the way the building looks comparable to what's on the street and I love the fact that they're restoring a building that I believe was going to be a tear down in the past it's beautiful and the fact that it's been vacant and that they're going to restore that building and it sounds like they're only adding one part one street parking space with now six units available I'm not beautiful neighborhood so I am for it thank you I have no additional raised hands thank you with that may have a motion I like to make a motion for approval with v3ga design review man the second excited thank you mr. Collins yes just can I know yes mr. achin yes mr. mr. stamberidge yes mr. shakram yes mr. valencia yes chair also notes yes motion carries good lot thank you very much but now move on to the 1 p.m. hearing this press one being case BOA 143 9 6 75 and address of 224 T r St. is the applicant or representative present are we are yes can you introduce yourself and what your proposal proposal um good afternoon manager my name is gap our slow and thus your prediction design now we go to honor change the last one we are proposing to raise the existing garage and then rebuild the new garage which is slightly larger because it is accessory building there's a max type of 15 feet and we are requesting 15 10 and then also the site is insufficient where we need to be at three feet and we are at one feet the existing garage is pretty much right on the property line so we are offsetting that one for to get a little bit more space on the right side we the existing garage is 6th new right 18th feet and the proposed garage 18 by 28 if we said we are pushing it back a little bit the existing garage was built 100 years ago so it is fun part of some cracks in the slab it's just undersized it doesn't really affect the size I just don't expect um what not it caught um that we have the time to do we did have a neighbor meeting and sitting meeting we did um get those support from the director of the department on the right and also the two director of others to the rear of the property and also to pretty um I can take any questions any questions from the board fairly straightforward uh may I have all the testimony just guys there are any raise sales so I have no raise means with the money okay uh with that may I have a motion I'm sure I make a motion to approve man the second i can mr college yes mr. Nado yes mr. Aiken yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes chair also loads yes motion carries good luck thank you so much next on the agenda we have case BOA 14145 for eight with the address being 201 for Hill Street is the applicant or representative present 201 for our sill street anyone from Changi management all right it doesn't handraised Jessica you know if that's the applicant I'm sorry I do not raise hands here I'm start with Alice yes Carol Thompson the president of farstale street is it's on the screen I hope as is Stan Brainerd who is the architect for the project I am the financial advisor to the farstale housing properties are you making the presentation I was hoping that Carol would do so and Dan yeah if Carol's not here I can get started great can you identify yourself in your address and please proceed I just made the panelist so you'll have to unmute yourself again David Alice okay first is Carol president no okay so I'll get started first we've had a few great neighborhood meetings and we have this award of the Jamaican plain neighborhood this you want us to the proposal itself we'll hear from we'll hear about the community piece sure yes there is a site here with four buildings that have 87 units currently having all their laundry office to community space in the footprint of one basement inaccessible apartment so we've worked with a client to fix that situation and make all the laundry office a community space accessible the most efficient way we found to do this is to bring the community and office function up to add grade a new construction building a drawing there you're looking at actually illustrates one reason why we need a new construction freestanding building we looked at attached buildings but that web of utilities really limits where we can effectively place a new addition without incurring great cost moving all sorts of utility lines so this hearing is about the single family new construction building specifically although it is part of a larger conceptual design that has an improved community room make me accessible changing where the maintenance staff is located bringing a laundry up to grade in part of the existing building and if you want to move on to the next slide okay yeah that shows the three projects the purple community services building is the one that's relevant to this discussion here but any any discussion you we have about the other other projects and happy to talk about those as the leaves we submitted a like a PowerPoint presentation with some photos do you have that now we just have the slides here from the the plans that was submitted okay we'll work with that so that is the current state of the elevations of the exterior of this new construction building as you see it's one story an entry area with a reception and then there's also a little office space a little workspace bathroom two offices for the community manager and the residential services coordinator and there's a conference room for private meetings with clients I'm not sure if you know but this is an affordable housing development so people come in and discuss their finances other personal personal situations like Alice is the financial consultant on the project so I'm not fully aware of those programs she can describe and they've needed you'll see there is we're looking at this has a pretty simple form we have we've metal roofing and vertical siding on one section and we're differentiating the lower section initially we had shown a stone veneer we may change that to horizontal cladding the glace side opens up to the landscape and the the other sides are face the back sides face the building you know really on the public face the other packet that I thought we were viewing does show a 3d view of the project you can't see this building from neighboring or rear of butters and for most of forest hill street you can see the building at the top of it anyway from one part of an open parking area on site so we think it has minimal visual impact but it greatly improves the daily lives of staff and residents of the project so I'm not looking at the same drive set as you're much sure because any more relevant drawing to look at but I'm happy to discuss them or answer any questions if anyone has one this time it does look like your colleague Carol is on if she if you wanted to add anything yes I have been trying to get on since the beginning um I am Carol Thompson I am president forest hill housing for up in an 87 unit affordable housing development owned by its residents since 1983 we are here today to ask you for zoning reference so that we can build a community service center for our residents the 1960s era design of our development did not consider the needs of the disabled or that for that matter parents with children and strollers every apartment and community space is at least a half a flight of stairs from the entrance to our building the new community service center will be a story but one story building in the courtyard between our four buildings that will be accountable to our residents it will also be a confidential spaces where residents can meet with staff the community service center will not be visible to our immediate neighbors it will be particularly visible from forest hill street as you will see within our architect's presence the design we do not believe it will have an impact on our neighbors but we will have a beneficial impact for the 87 households at the cooperative we hope you will grant a request for a variance thank you thank you are there questions from the board okay hearing none may I have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services this time the mayor's office elected deferred to the judgment of this board some backer information the community process our office facilitated the butters meeting on January 23rd 2023 the applicant then went on to meet with the Jamaica plain neighborhood council zoning committee which approved this proposal on March 1st no opposition was heard throughout the community process at this time we'd like to defer to the board thank you thank you members of the board Paul Solvins in council about a microplarity has to do a reckon support thank you okay I'll see you looking to give testimony here I think she's part of the development okay so we have no additional raised hands thank you thank you any was that may I have a motion I'll make a motion to approve with PPTA design review thank you sorry we should raise a second no thank you mr. Collins yes sorry miss panato yes mr. Aiken yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes share our show for the rest motion carries develop with this thank you thank you very much next we have case BOA 144 0171 with the address 31 Winchester Street is the applicant or represent president yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board mark the cast the cast last 75 Arlington Street in Boston present the homeowners manual and Pauline DeFrain of this single family home in Bay Village this is a very minimal request for relief with respect to a small expansion of an existing deck at the rear of the building on the third level I'll explain the condition of the rear yard here on the screen on the site plan if you can enlarge that a little bit more great so you see number 31 is an existing four-story brick building number 33 next door and then number 40 42 p.m. on street in the back I'll share this little common courtyard light well in the back of the buildings and they've been doing a whole bunch of projects back there fixing their masonry walls sharing scaffolding and things of that nature my clients are expanding by 32 square feet they're existing walk out of terrace on the third floor in the back by removing an old medalist staircase that used to be a fire escape but is no longer needed because they've turned this into a single family residence so by removing the medal staircase they sort of have an opening next to the deck that this by squaring and off by 32 square feet they're able to make the deck a little bit bigger at that level the sole violation with respect to that is article six section eight and they village which is set at the rear yard insufficiency but that section also provides that we need a condition use permit because this constitutes about pinning above the first story so to the extent that it is a violation for the rear yard insufficiency and the condition use permit for a deck above the first story we request both um next slide please again these are just existing floor plans at the existing house which used to be multiple units and has now been turned into a single family residence over the years by my clients next slide and let's see there is a request for some structural drawings from a structural engineer by ISD so we've provided those next slide just zoom into the proposed deck expansion okay if you could enlarge this on the lower left hand corner you can see the new deck is about four feet and some inches by eight feet the little dotted line shows the area of the expansion to the right of the dotted line is the existing deck and there's a walk out set of double doors from the dining area at that level and that's the that's the extent of our request thank you Mr. LeCast any questions from the board okay here and none may I have other testimony hi i'm good afternoon madam chair members of the board came crucially from the mayor's office of neighborhood services the mayor's office would like to defer to the board on this matter office held in a butters meeting in March of 2022 where any concerns um far up by our bodies were addressed by the applicant thank you no one's in for a moment good afternoon when i calmed around from council president flings office the councilor would like to go on recording support with the two good community process and you have standing issues reported by neighbors or the civic association thank you here those yes would that man motion make motion to approve man second second mr. Collins yes miss panato yes mr. achin yes mr. stembridge yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes chair also those yes motion carries thank you kindly next we have case bioe 1366 165 the address being one hard place is the applicant will represent the front yes madam chair this is air exacter son architecture the project we've been asked by i s by the zoning board um seven heins two uh aspirin deferral as um during the re-review there an additional um violation was cited and they need to re-read notice the project we're ready to go forward so we'd like the students possible but it just needs to be re-noticed thank you i'm here what's the next available date yes man chair at June 27th would be the next available hey with that may have a motion motion it deferred yeah the second they're going to mr. Collins yes miss panato yes mr. achin yes mr. stembridge yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes chair also goes yes motion carries listen to you next we have case bioe 143 3817 address being 147 to 163 four lean street is the applicant or representative present yes good afternoon julie maca you have a legal counsel with the applicant is fostering a health center i am joined here by jenny cathleen braille of holy howell and our architect representative Danielle Buckley of eustonuity um so thank you madam chair and members of the board for having us today our project aims to expand physical access to the health centers geriatric program for frail seniors in the community uh we propose to renovate our administrative building on or lean street by adding clinical exam rooms so we could operate a senior care center um i'll be from chair and over new of the health center in the goal for our project today and then our attorney and architect will go over a specific pregnant to the relief we are requesting um so as you know the health center has been in the community for over 50 years with the largest community health center in Massachusetts governed by a patient board um we provide care to more than 120,000 patients a year including a large population that is uninsured uh please next slide um the project represented today is part of our euston campus where we have several clinical buildings and program sites um we are actually serving about 60 percent of all euston residents and about half of our 1500 staff are from the service area um next slide please um so by adding clinical services at the currently administrative building we would be able to operate uh our program all inclusive care for the elderly or case for short um the health frail seniors in their homes in the community instead of nursing homes by providing comprehensive medical um functional and recreational services we've operated this program since 1990s and currently managed it from um six locations in east Boston and surrounding communities and manage three care senior care centers similar to what we're proposing here next slide please um so the location is 147 163 or lean street uh it's just a short walk from memory to station um next slide again thank you um here you can see um uh perspective along or lean and gov streets so the building consists of two connected buildings one single story on the right and the other is two story and the building is located right across from the health centers employee parking uh right right across or lean street and then next slide please and here is uh just a close-up image of the current front building front of the building showing the connection point uh and i'll now turn over to patlin to provide detail on the uses on current uses and uh really if we are requesting and you can please turn to next slide good afternoon um just briefly this relief that we are here for um is for use variants uh to allow clinical healthcare uses um so the existing uses at the site include office and administrative use those are presently authorized in wood remain um the primary addition of use is adult day care which is allowed use uh in the district um by healthcare clinical uses are forbidden and that is the reason we are here to seek a variance for that um none uh no dimensional relief is required for the project it consists primarily of interior renovations with a small exterior vestibule that's going to be added but no other dimensional relief or any other use relief is required under the code um and i will turn it over to Danielle to go over the design hi i think it's good for the next slide please um from Danielle busley principal it's unity and the aspect for the project um this is the high level sketch of the interior of the project um the pace program for the elderly consists of three major components which we're highlighting here um in the bottom left you will see the clinic portion of that and that allows the elderly patients to come and be seen by healthcare providers while on site there's also a day program that allows them for presentation um meals and other professional care um help as well as a physical therapy which you can see in the in the top left and so and Kathleen mentioned the the real issue of basic clinic program in the bottom left which is a small component but interestingly the services that need to be provided um there is a new vestibule that we are proposing in the top right and that is um to the minimum five 80 square feet just to allow for some um mediation between indoor and outdoor for the patient and the two builders are slightly connected as you can see on the left there's a small connection there we do not intend for any other connection point at this time with the next step will remain and that will be utilized to allow for classes between the two buildings sorry can you orient us to do you know orient us just to where or the in street is please sorry on the bottom of the page thank you you I think we can go to the next slide these are some examples of the other programs that you often have um and what the interior would look like we go to the next slide and I think that's it actually thank you thank you we are happy and anything else thanks Danielle that's it we can we can take any questions thank you great any questions from the board couple of questions so is the drop off in loading area then within the existing parking lot correct okay um thank you i'm pretty familiar with the with the area and the location is there are there any improvements planned at all for the exterior of the building other than a vestibule mention you okay all right well being courage it's a bit dread looking uh and I would like to I think roll up to one of the earlier slide there and uh just make an encouragement the health center consider any kind of street trees if you'll see one of the images earlier on I noticed this one going through your presentation that you can see that the entire area there is pretty well covered with street trees except for the whole block basically of around the health center so just encourage since you're trying to do things to help encourage better health for people uh the East Boston has pretty low co-tree canopy so thank you mr. Domingo are you commenting on this project yes madam chair I am thank you madam chair members of the board about Domingo box for transportation but my only question is I have to do what persons with disability parking unless I missed it I didn't see any spaces to accommodate this this important need and by the way I was a former board member of the East Boston Health Center so I'm quite familiar with the organization and it does tremendous amount of good for the East Boston and the surrounding communities but I would just want to be about the person with disabilities parking thank you for the question Danielle I can answer with your help so based on the the peace program hot-out so most patients will arrive in the part by the health center's band transportation and we'll have a side drop-off area as Danielle described for those purposes but we will also reconfigure and you the drop-off area with with the ADU compliance in mind and Danielle please add if there's anything no I think you've covered it so I'm adding the vestibule to allow for the drop-off for patients and in doing that you know additional or um EDH options required will be provided yes I'm gonna look at two spaces for persons with disability parking thank you thank you any other questions from the board okay hearing nightmare public testimony yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services at this time the mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board some background information in the community process the applicant met with the Gov Street citizens association in February and March of this year the group voted to support the project unanimously they stated they were happy with the changes the East Boston neighborhood health centers proposing I would provide better care um for senior citizens and also stated the building will be a community asset if approved we're not aware of any concerns at this time thank you okay I need a new license Elaine Kelley-Colette-Colette-Colette-Colette based on communities support from the Gov Street citizens association and the impact of the Allen community would like to go on record and strong support thank you madam chair members of the board of the police on the city council of I'd like to make a clarity on the council to record and support okay no additional waste hands would that may I have a motion I'll make a motion to approve with BBTA and BTD design Virginia okay man second second Mr. Collins yes Mr. Bonato yes Mr. Aiken yes Mr. Stambridge yes Mr. Shepard yes Mr. Valencia yes chair also yes motion carries thank you very much and next in last on the list we have case VOA 1444 8501 the address being 69 Saratoga Street is the applicant would represent the president yes I am madam secretary secretary what is the board so we could have the new madam chair members of the board a 20 Derek Small of a business adjust of 51 dobs and row and branching mass today we're here seeking relief to change the legal occupancy of the building from a one family dwelling two or three family dwelling zoning sub district here is a two f two thousand a lot sizes approximately 2500 square feet zoning violations are as follows three family uses of forbidden use in the two f zoning zoning district the FAR FAR requirement is 0.8 we are proposing 1.1 side yard violation is two and a half feet we are at two and a half feet and we are we think we were cited for that erroneously and the rear yard setback is requirement is of 30 it's 30 feet and we have 20 and again those violations are pre existing non-conforming what it is is going to be a gut rehab of the of the building interior and exterior unit one will consist of a one bedroom unit with approximately two thousand square feet unit two will be 1100 square feet two bedrooms one bath and unit three on the third floor will be one bedroom one bath at approximately six hundred and thirty square feet outfossed in entertaining questions that the board might have just really quick as a side note two madam chair we are currently being tax as eight me family through the city of Boston's assessment department and to confirm there is no basement living there's basement living but no bedrooms at the basement is from the board okay hearing men may have public testimony can you can just speak to the basement I see yes I think we can go up to the I think the basement floor plan is up yes and it's and it's also on a coastal flood reserve yes so and you've got living in the basement basement occupancy yes madam chair there we are proposing a playroom for the family in the basement no no bedrooms again and again we do have our G card no harm letter and we didn't see a G card letter of support from ground one trust thank you can you talk about the ceiling heights in that basement area yeah ceiling heights for the basement area of 7 foot 6 thank you any questions from the board okay hearing men may have public testimony yes madam chair members the board honored and then with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time the mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board some back information in the community process it looks like in a butterspeed was held back in 2021 with alines the applicant met with the Eagle Hill Civic Association in January February of 2022 the group voted to oppose with 11 residents against in three in support members voice being displeased with the proposed party plank signing as they stated this would destroy Victorian characteristics of the home without we'll defer to the board thank you thank you madam chair members of the board Christian Seminali Voss and brought on a trust and we have both letters from the applicant thank you Elaine madam chair members of the board based on community opposition from the Eagle Hill Civil Civic Association council the Collective would like to go on record in opposition thank you have no additional raised hands madam chair may I respond to that sure sure when we met with Eagle Hill their primary concern was with regard to the exterior of the building we had suggested that you know the BPD would not a desire review would not allow for any aluminum siding and we'll probably do nothing less than hardy plank on the side I think members of the Eagle Hill Civil Socialist should weren't satisfied with the comment that you know BPA would have designed review over the project and then you know with regard to hardy plank but we're expressed in that we're willing to do whatever the BPD suggested in design review with regard to the exterior and with regard to support I think we the upon the applicants went around and got a number of support letters that are in should be in the in the file for this for this application yeah I don't know if it's just those handy we do have letters of support yes yeah with that may I have a motion I'll make a motion to approve with the following providers that there'll be no building code relief no building code relief be granted no living space allowed in the basement given that it's in a coastal flood resiliency overly district and BPD design review and have a second second mr. Collins yes miss Bonato yes mr. Aiken yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes sure also votes yes motion carries good luck and thank you thank you madam chair members and board have a good day thank you and that's a wrap thank you you you you