 you you you you you you you of to a 2020-26 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice called in virtual hearings through June, 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live-streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information or connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page, the sales website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout the most administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys are represented as both participating in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Analysts are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order and comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. It's your main limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the type of commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals who live horses to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again in your hands, you go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive their request from the host. Those called upon the comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then they can provide their comment. And the interest of time, and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before a relevant address is called or after the meeting post will not know how long you have the appropriate time. We ask the e-keeper comments brief and that all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds per speaker. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Hello. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning, Ms. Riewell. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Mr. Collins. Morning, Madam Chair, present. Ms. Barbraza. Good morning, Madam Chair, present. Good morning, and floor choice, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin today's meeting with the approval of hearing minutes scheduled for nine, 30, excuse me. The minutes are from March 19th and March 24th of this year. I will make a motion of approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Riewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Barbraza. Yes. Mr. Chair, perhaps yes, the motion carries. Next, we move on to the extension schedule for nine, 30 AM. There are 12 extension requests. I'll read them all in one after the other. If there's any questions on them, we can address those the Madam Chair, Madam Chair. We'll begin with case B O A, 1537925 with the address of 22 Freeman Street. Next, we have case B O A, 940697 with the address of 1102 to 1106 R, Bluetooth Aluminum. Next, we have case B O A, 1472285 with the address of 344 Bremson Street. Next, we have case B O A, 1561839 with the address of 500 Western Avenue. Next, we have case B O A, 155, 3897 with the address of 29 Hive Street. Next, we have case B O A, 156789 with the address of 1 to 7 cell crew group. Next, we have case B O A, 1, 1, 7476 with the address of 10 ninth street. Next, we have case B O A, 1571297 with the address of 50 Princeton Street. Next, we have case B O A, 818377 with the address of 111 Terripe Street. Next, we have case B O A, 992109 with the address of 24 Bremson Street. Next, we have case B O A, 992105 with the address of 28 Grand Street. And finally, we have case B O A, 156239 with the address of 735 to 745 Bremson Street. All of the extension requests appear to be reasonable and we can go from there. Any questions from the board? We have a motion to grant the extensions as requested. I make a motion to grant the extensions as requested. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Betabrazo. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Next, we have board three board final operator cases scheduled for 930. The first case is B O A, 1767611 with the address of 11N Wood Street. Is the applicant and or their representative? Will they please explain to the board? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Good morning. I'm Adam H. Are you speaking on behalf of this case, Mr. Albus? Yes. Yes. Yes, ma'am. Great. Can you identify your name and address for the record, please? One of my names is A from Abodes. I'm not every type of doctor or patient. Mr. The project or you know that without three faculty, we cannot approve of what three faculty is already published. But then after we are going to prove for best in the end, we identify the number a little smaller for what? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? What's in color? The string class system is the string class system. We already have a string that we already have in place a string class system for a string in a string unit. All we need is to extend the string class system for the module. And then we just look at the string class system. The string class system is just to add the node to the node environment. We just want you to understand the new graph of the operation. I'll be grateful as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Lino. Yes. Mr. Wewill. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Barbarozo. Yes. Cheryl Moes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. You're on mute, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Steiner. Mr. Steiner. We have the case of BOA. 1, 5, 8, 2, 2, 4, 5, with the address of 50 to 52 towns in street. If the applicant is in or of the representative of the president, would they please explain to the board? We seem to be missing our ambassador, so I don't. Um, um, okay. Yeah, we can't us here. Um, Cameron or Stephanie, could you unmute them? Yeah, I would be interested. Okay, thank you, Tim. Good morning. I, I think I sure, uh, sure, I, I allow you to unmute yourself. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Yes, can you state your name and address for the record? Yes, please proceed. Oh, yes, ma'am. My name is Sherry or shoe. Sherry or shoe. Uh, from 50 and 52 towns in street. Um, I am, I'm with it. We are just meeting a couple of years ago. And, uh, our request is made to have 50 and 52, uh, two different field side by side buildings to VS1. But, uh, they cannot be the case. Uh, or military teams. So I'm requesting that everything, uh, on that request, uh, could go as is. I believe about. Only, uh, I'm completely requested that I see the light, but to cheat them separate. That is, actually connected to the, uh, actually combined to be one building. What you mean is. 50 and 52,000 street, count and speak. All right, the questions from the board. I'm not in their emotion. I'm sure I like to put forward emotion of approval. Is there a second? Secretary. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes, yes, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Rowe. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Mr. Lainon, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 169-5772. With the address of 710 top street. It's the Apple case. And the representative of the president will take place in the case of the board. Hello. Hello. Are you in the applicant? Yes. Okay. Can you say, can I'm going to address for the record? Please proceed. Yes. Hi, my name is President Al-Atrari and address is 7 tip top street. I'm requesting minor changes to my application for my permit. So, and this is still with these two years. It's still under the proposed FAR. And the plan does not have any use with the changes I'm making. So, what are the changes you're proposing? As we get to the plans, I'll explain a little bit more. The floor plans. Yes. So, in these two floor plans, like the basement level where I'm going to the gun, it's like a walk out basement. I like to add a wall to add one more room, like a guest room. And also in the kind of doing the same in the first floor level as well. And can we move on to the next slide, please? And in the top two floors, there are small decks. There are, each floor has three decks currently. But right now I'm proposing to close one of these smaller decks. That is like a 40 square foot each and increase the office space a little bit because of us too tight. That is all of the changes we're requesting. There's a question from the board. And in the elevation, just like, you know, this is where the decks were. They were small and just starting and closing it. About 40 square foot each. Okay. All the questions from the board? Hearing none. Is there a motion? I'm sure. Madam Chair, I'll put floor motion of approval. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, next we have on the agenda we have a discussion of the, of the main law complaint. We're guiding February 24th, 2026 hearing for 154 terrorist street. And these are signed to case number B.O.A. 1261313 slash ERT 1240355 to the appeal. Thank you. The board has received and reviewed the open meeting law complaint and the legal advisors draft response concerning 154 terrorist street. Does any board member have any questions? Hearing none. May I have a motion to adopt the legal advisors response to the complaint? Madam Chair, I'll make a motion to adopt the legal advisors response to this open meeting law complaint. We're guiding 154 terrorist street. In very second. That's it. Mr. Spemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next, we'll move on to the hearings scheduled for 9.30 a.m. At this time, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the 9.30 a.m. here. We'll begin with case B.O.A. 1792127 with the address of 101 County Street. If the applicants and whether representable presence. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here to represent Hannah Robbie and come out of the house. They're young family that would like to go to the other of the tech. The project, if you can, is called down. So the owners own the, this is a two family building and the owner is actually occupied entire building. And what we would like to do is basically add a roof deck. And we're going to do a roof deck. Similar to what the neighbor is doing, which is a five feet, a front setback and double-frag. We'll have a 42 inch higher railing if you don't need to for safety reasons that the small child with the family. The owner is occupied entire building. So what we would like to do if you scroll down a little bit. Is, um, and heard it up a bit. Stay on the second page. Thanks for. And stay there. Thank you. So what we want to do is there's an existing fire speed balcony from the third floor to the second floor. This is actually the third. The second floor. There are the second unit. And we really don't need that exit. The two exit remains from the interior that's take you to the front and the exterior on the second floor. The decused ground. So to that's why balcony stays. What you want to do is that we ate a new balcony on the third floor, which is the length of about 16 feet long. And the more that we see to deep. And that's where create access to the roof deck. The spiral staircase, five feet diameter. So that's pretty much the project. The, the spiral staircase and the balcony there in the year setback. So that's why we have the violations. We have the rear setback violation. We have those structure restrictions for the roof deck. And then we have additional two violations, which are the reconstruction of extension of non conforming building, as well as insufficient building. Lots of additional building lot depth. We want to mention that there is multiple roof decks in the area. Also we mentioned the neighboring building and we have actually creating a deck connecting to them. A gate connecting to them. We submitted cross-port letters. And then from the immediate neighbors from both sides and as well from the rear, which is really two four seven. So all the daughters are support of this project. And it's just one mention also that it's really not that it is the boss on this street view. And it is setback five feet and it's housed. I think that's complete the presentation. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I public testimony? I'm Adam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. Regarding one of one cottage street, our office to first of the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including on a battery's main held on 12, 3, 25. That was not attended by any community members. Additionally, we did receive four letters and support three from direct the butters. The proposal was also reviewed by the Goat Street Neighborhood Association at their meeting on 12626. They expressed support at a vote of four in favor and one opposed regarding the proposal. At this time, the way the office to neighbor services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. My name is Chair. Next we have Gabriel Arrond. I'm a consultant at Colleta's office. I'm reading Madam Chair, members of the board. Gabriel Arrambiars here on behalf of the office. And so the counselor, Gabriel, is called a sub-batto's office. This time the counselor is going to go on the record in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, they are now the general coming. Would that be an evolution? Mr. Schumacher, welcome. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Bervazza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. We will take. Next we have Chase B.O.A. 1-8-1-10-5-7. With the address of 51 Salary Street. If the applicant is in the representative of a president, would they please explain the case to the board? Good morning, everybody on the board. My name is Tim Shien. I'm the architect for the project. This is a single family house at 51 Salary Street in Charlestown. It's open your own aroccupied. Currently, it's a single family with the main rectangle section. And then there's a back L, a two-story section. The front section is two and a half stories with the gable. We want to rebuild the rear L. Now, basically, the house is in pretty rough shape, so it's going to be a full restoration. The reason we're here today is on top now, there's two dormers, one on the front, one on the back. We'd like to do two separate dormers on the front, and a shed dormer on the back to allow for a master bedroom suite. We'd like to put a deck behind that master bedroom on the two-story section. That back L now is configured strangely. There's a hollow space in the middle. I can't quite figure it out, but we're just going to build it as a rectangle. We want to put a deck on the back, which will cause a reset back violation. But we also, you know, there's an existing driveway there now, I've shown two compact spaces in a full. They may use it as two full spaces, but you can get three cars in there, I believe. And we're adding, what, we're adding, like, 850 square feet. We're going to finish the basement, currently unfinished. We'll finish the forward section of it. We're lucky we have seven-foot ceiling height there now. We'll keep that. And that's basically the ray accept that parking roof open space. So that's why we're here. The neighborhood process has gone fine. We've talked to the neighbors. And with that, I'll leave it to your questions. Thank you. All those questions from the floor? Hearing none, ma'am. On the testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members. Ziggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. Disappoken completed the community process. Our office host and in the butter's meeting on February 11th. The buyer had a concern about a fence jointly located with this property. Our office understands the petitioners have had a dialogue with them. That background, our office deferred to First Judgement to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Was that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, motion to approve what the provides of. That the point is a similar to the point in the department with design, the view focusing on the proposed read-alone. Is there a second? Second. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Mr. Wu-Low. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Betabraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have case B.O.A. 174-7974. What the address of 142 P Street is the applicant's and or their representative of present. What the place is planning the case of the board. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eric Zacherson. I live at 61 Monument Avenue in Charlestown. I'm the architect for the project. The project is to propose on these five fairly recently constructed town homes in South Boston. Each of the five unit owners represents a young family that's in that has moved to South Boston and would like to add a roof deck to their individual town homes. So the proposal is to add five individual roof decks. The parapet on this particular building happens to be 42 inches or a little higher than that. And so we've worked together to come up with a strategy using a tile text system which would be white and alleviate the urban heat island effect. And there would actually not need to be a handrail around the deck. So the idea is that this would then be a roof deck that is not visible from the neighbors. We presented this presentation to the butters in October. And then there was some concern about the pergola that we had put over the top to shade a number of the to shade all five of the units. So after informally meeting with the neighborhood association, we removed the pergola. We have since then tried to meet with the neighborhood association a number of times, but that hasn't been able to be scheduled. And so we are here today to present and ask for the variances required to basically convert this roof area into five individual roof decks for these families. And I was how recently this project was completed or approved a couple of years ago. I believe the tenants most of them have been living there for a year and a half to two years. And why was the why were those experts the original proposal of that was the attention? Yeah, I can't say for sure. We were not part of the development team and there is no record as to why they were were not installed at that point. It would have seemed like a nice way. One of the situations is that this project actually sits very far back on the lot. So there are no rear yard, no rear yards on the property. All of them. There's a very large lowly landscape front yard, but that doesn't provide the kind of play space and or kind of private gathering space that we normally associate with a little bit of private outdoor space. So this is this is set way back from the corner and that gives great visibility and a great kind of green space for the community. But the unit owners don't have any private outdoor space. And can you give me a sense of how many like art? I'm looking at the Earth like there don't seem to be a lot of roof decks nearby. There are quite a few. Yes, I one of the tenants said that he believes he could count as many as 50 within a couple of blocks. One of the comments from the neighbors was that they were concerned that the pergola would block the view from their roof deck. So we know that that was the primary concern for the roof deck. It was the pergola was the view from other roof decks. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Yes, first of all comment first since the reading is already there. I was wondering why you don't you don't have like pictures of the actual building to show what is there now in the proposal. But the comment the question is about the community process. We received several letters of community members asking for a second meeting. Do you mention that there has not been possible to have that meeting with others? Can you explain a little bit more about the community process? Yeah, absolutely. Very I'm actually quite concerned about it. We as I said we met with the neighbors in the butters in October of last year. We and we met informally with the neighborhood association then and then we decided to remove the pergola and since then we have emailed the neighborhood association quite a few times in both November, December, January and then either not put on the agenda or very often at the last minute told that we've been we're not we're not on the agenda literally the day of. We expressed our concerns to BPD or to the Office of Neighborhood Services and they they urge us to meet with them. We sent an email asking can we meet with you the office of neighborhood services gave us a. Because only for the hearing date and after we had finally secured that then the neighborhood association agreed that they could meet with us if we could wait a couple of months a couple more months and so you know at some point we got we became. Exasperated with the process of trying to get on the neighborhood association agenda even though we've had informal meetings and we had already addressed the primary concern that they had asked for so while we would love to and we regularly meet with and and present to neighborhood associations this particular association has not allowed us or not put us on the agenda since we first requested back in November 10th of last year. And which association are you talking about just a look there. I believe it's a city point neighborhood association. Other questions from the board. I have a question regarding your birth plan if you can go to the birth plan. Right there. Yeah that's great. I'm seeing grills that are adjacent to extra walls. Can you talk to me a little bit more about what type of grills barbecue you're proposing. We haven't gotten into it terribly much but the idea is that they would be outdoor grills adjacent to the parapet wall but because these grills tend to be 36 inches tall they're shorter than the parapet walls and so in answer to the other question a moment ago we actually have a photo on the cover sheet because there are because there's no guard rail it you would not be able to see this from the street. Yeah so my only concern is that in the city of Boston the fire department kind of regulates the use of grill and what type of grill so that would be my only concern that typically you're not supposed supposed to put on your railings nor near extra walls so just for you to take a look at the fire department codes regarding grills on roof decks. Absolutely and that's part of the reason we want to show them is to be very transparent as we go through the process and make sure that everybody knows that they're going to be there or comments on and we get them arranged appropriately. Yeah typically only electric grills are allowed but you should just read into the regulations and I'll just put a provides on there. If I may I'm one of the unit owners and we're all I'm talking with the other unit owners too and we're comfortable with moving the location of the grills so that they're not against the walls. Yeah I'll get back to the chair because I think it's not public testimony yet but thank you thank you. Thank you are there any other questions from the board hearing none let's open it up to public testimony. Good morning again Madam Chair and members to get you also at the office of Neighborhood Services. This application had a nut butters meeting on October 9th that the tutors were divided on the proposal. Some supporting cited in need for open space for families and the positive character of the applicants. Those opposed cited deterioration of their sightlines and public nuisance issues associated with roof decks. Additionally an issue came up regarding compromise in the community process for the construction of this building that included no roof decks as part of the original construction. Office received 13 letters of opposition 12 of which have signed an address in the 300 foot of butters radius. These of butters also felt that more changes could be made in response to feedback and requested additional community meetings with the petitioners. Office received 26 letters of support one has provided an address in the 300 foot of butters radius with the other addresses in other areas of south Austin. The applicants met informally with the city point neighborhood association that group felt that more community process was needed and has requested additional community meetings. Concerns were raised about the proposed purgola at the butters meeting and the association meeting and the applicants have indicated they have removed the purgola in response to this feedback. That background our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Next day we have seen from concerns of the police office. Thank you Madam Chair members of the board. This is Cindy Scalen from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn would like to go on record an opposition based on overwhelming feedback from a butters nearby neighbors in the city point neighborhood association. As you know, Councillor Flynn maintains a longstanding policy against the construction of additional roof decks based on eight years of meetings and concerns voiced by our seniors persons with disabilities veterans and young families on quality of life issues parties at all hours, trash removal with pizza boxes falling into this street. Our past control crisis and public safety issues with the presence of girls on debt. But what Councillor Flynn heard from his constituents in this case was issues of public and community process. The neighbors in civic group asked for another butters meeting to discuss a change. Councillor Flynn asked on us for their partnership asking for a deferral as was customary for over eight years. Unfortunately, that did not take place. Councillor Flynn believes this is public service and additional meeting was in no way unreasonable with the amount of meetings with much lower in the city and the ability to quickly schedule a zoo. Lastly, Councillor Flynn opposes as a major compromise in 2021 that garnered his support and that of neighbors was the removal of the roof deck. South Boston neighbors continue to support addressing the housing crisis. All needed to have the wrong cold out years later and bad faith. Lastly, Councillor Flynn believes we cannot continue to call ourselves the most family friendly city in the country if we continue to wellfully disregard the quality of life issues of many residents and families in favor of projects that do not improve the housing crisis. Thank you. Next we have Kimberly Matthews. Kimberly, if you can use so. Hi. Good morning. My name is Kimberly Matthews. I live at 137 P Street. We had, as mentioned earlier, provided information and opposition for the roof decks. To the earlier point, I think when they had done the development, it was promised that roof decks were specifically not going to be put on there. And now we're here again, maybe two years later and they're proposing to put five roof decks. We have for express concern with regards to also the grills, whether wherever they're placed. I think that if you were to go and as you looked at Madam Chair, there are not a lot of roof decks in that area. So I'm not sure what the other person was referring to whether it's 50. So again, we are just looking to have conversations about that. I think that that's why I've also written a letter of deferral as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Christine MacCombill. Hello. Can you hear me? Hello? Yeah. I just want to say to the zoning board members, consider if this happens in your neighborhood. Shame on these people. It's a shameful dessert for the art of the public process. The attorney that represents her name is Kierfi Sugamaran. She's claiming to have a seven year old child that needs private outdoor space to play in. We are within a hundred feet of Castle Island and Marine Park. There's another person who got on the public hearing and said that his, I think, is elderly parents, seen a place to sit in the sun. Again, we're right here at Castle Island. I've watched this evolve and I think that, you know, if people care about community, if you people care about neighbors, you should make this group adhere to the way things are done in the public process. What's being gone on here is a circumventing a very sneaky, deceptive way to circumvent neighbors who do not want this and sort of gone and died in a lot of what the architect has said is pat me on true. He said there's no record of not allowing roof decks. There's so much cozy arrangement. I was in the neighborhood agreement talking about no outdoor space and just look where we are in the map. No private outdoor space. It's frankly laughable in my book, where I was in fire pits up there and then they say that they need a place for children to play. So I just hope that the zoning board can take a bigger picture of this and see what this kind of entitlement does for communities and listen to the neighbors. The process is utterly important in crowded cities. Thank you. You. Good morning, madam chair. Good morning, board. We're man, I'll come on our president of the city point neighborhood association. I would like to start with going through what down Zachary, sorry, or Zacharyson stated. I negotiated this building. This building came from the I units down to seven units, to come to five units specifically with no roof decks. And that's how the community support this building and the deal closed with the developer at the time with that being said, the proponents have come back asking for roof decks. The process here has not in fact been followed. There was an abouters meeting an official city boss and abouters meeting. At that point, there was opposition mostly opposition from people that are direct abouters with that they. Matt use who is one of the proponents in the homeowner's association asked if they could come before CPNA to have a conversation with community. The answer to that was yes, we would welcome and always do welcome conversation, but it would not be considered an official city of Boston meeting. It was just a conversation. So why that's being brought up here is questionable. Without being said, they came in. There was a program on the agreed to take the program off after that meeting. We asked for a second abouters meeting now why do we ask for a second abouters meeting because nobody knows that the change of plans has happened. You can look at one in court, which is directly in front of this building. There's 40 people in there that have no idea what the plans are. They're directly across the street. Unless you're a member of the city point neighborhood association, you don't know what the plans are either. So the reason why they were told that they were not going to meet with the association was to complete the process. A second abouters meeting once that happens absolutely come into city point present city point will then take a vote either to oppose to support or take no stand. Then they go up to ZBA that has always been the practice whether we're talking about the Menina administration, the Walls administration and or the World Administration. So that's really important that you understand that is the process. We were denied that second abouters meeting and Lindsey Santana from the ONS gave them a zoning or appeals date without anybody's knowledge. So now here we are running around crazy and chaotic and we're not moving the city forward amicably. We're putting me against neighbor and that's not okay. So again at this point in time I would ask for the deferral so that this can be sorted out with all the neighbors within 300 feet. There are letters of support that I pulled from their jacket within self-boston and they are their friends and neighbors that most of them attend an appearance of self-boston. Thank you. So with that I would ask well again let me just finish either a deferral or a denied without prejudice so that the process can continue. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would have one more person on chair. Okay please be brief and add me with the person. You sir. Somebody with the son you sir. You come 90. 90 seconds please. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes sir. Please state your name and address for the record. Yes my name is Paul Carthus. I live at 132 P Street in self-boston. In just regards to the roof deck itself the other folks have talked about the process etc. I just want to point out that this is not a simple roof deck request. It's actually alive. We've been expanding the five units in a concentrated space and I firmly believe that this concentration will be a noise multiplier. We got this quite each group happens to be. And turns into zoning variants as requested. Restricted roof district in the existing roof exceeds a max building height limit. These were quality of life restrictions that were put in place for a reason after much thought and. Through put from the community that seems lately but a lot of these exemptions to restrictions are just a variance. We've lost away so that's all I have to say thank you. Thank you. Any other response? No additional comments. Carolyn I'm just wondering. Like sort of we've heard comments about the project being originally improved you know with support without roof deck. I mean is that something that we have access to or can confirm because it does seem a bit disingenuous if there was support without roof deck. And then comes back a couple of years later asking for roof deck. I think Jeff has his hand raised. I can comment but if you want to just say something prayers. Definitely. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board. Jeff Hampton City of Boston Planning Department. This project was approved as a five unit back in 2021. The original hearing date was early 2021 and the key and got kicked down the road a few months. As a city point neighborhood representative. I apologize I forget her name had said that the number of units had gone down. Any agreements that were made with the neighborhood about no roof decks that was done between the neighborhood and the developer. Looking at the decision signed on October 12th of 2021. There is no proviso stated that says no roof decks and only says BPD design review. So we were in support of that development back in 2021. So I just want to state that for the record there were no provisos added to this decision that said no roof decks. It might comment to that it would have been a proviso if it was really heard at the at the ZBA. Yeah. I think the takeaway is if that's an important point it should be included as a proviso moving forward. Any other questions from the board? Any response from the applicant? Yeah. I would like to reiterate if possible that we did email the city point neighborhood association four times in November, five times in December asking for a hearing date. And we got no real response. And then as soon as the to the comment that the neighborhood association hasn't had an opportunity as soon as the state was assigned. We emailed them and asked if we again if we could present and that's when and that was over six weeks ago. That's when they suggested that they couldn't meet with us in March but would meet with us in late April. So we have really tried to present this to the neighborhood association and we will continue to try every time we do a project here. Is there a concern for you to go back and do the second of butter's meeting that seems to be requested from folks? Yes. It's that we have waited. We waited six or seven months to get to this point. We don't believe that there's any particular reason to delay the project further. And actually I'm afraid that this is actually this is largely a stall tactic on their part to just not let us present even though we had we had talked to them to present. And I think that that would set a bad precedent that they can refuse to meet with us until the zoning board hearing and then ask for a deferral so that they can eventually put us on the zoning board in front of the zoning board. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is there a motion? I'm sure I know that the Department is recommending approval but at this moment based on the comments from the proponent and the community members I think that the project needs just a few more weeks so they can try one more time to meet with the community. And if the meeting doesn't happen well they have to come back anyway so I make a motion of the federal hoping for a short deferral for the proponent to go back and meet with the board. And if it's not possible the new date has to be set for the hidden. I support Giovanni's as well. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah? Mr. Glanzia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Beter-Barrazo. I'm going to say yes but also going to comment that this should be an opportunity for the architect to also just connect with the Boston Fire Department and provide something that is approval. That would help make the case as well. Thank you. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Do you have a dean telling you? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Dr. Langham. So, these were the safety consolidation results. Thanks for joining us. I'll speak most of our memories with Charles Langham yetigneur, while I was with Bishop Rob, but how about his job of not bringing to Port掰掰 forGAN Testing Medical Medical Medical path to be a great information. and the address of 78 H Street. If the applicant and other representable present, will they please go into the board. Yes, Frank Canifinburg, 289 West Third Street, South Boston representing this project. I'm also here, Laura Lee Johnson at 88 Street. Excuse me. I'm today's partner. Pardon me? Who's presenting? I am. Okay, let's proceed. Laura Lee is a butter to just. Okay, so she's not presenting. And yes, if you want to speak, that's public testimony time. Thank you. All right, so this project is a, it's currently a single family property. It's formerly been a two and three family property. The owners wish to convert it from a single family back to a two family by separating the first floor and basement into one unit and then the second and third floor into another unit. The basement space is currently finished. There is no additional square footage being added to the property. It's legalization of the finished basement that was never done by previous owners. So there's no new square footage being added. It's just the legalization of the basement space. There will be a rear egress, small deck and staircase leading from the second floor down to the rear yard. That is what creates the side yard setback issue is just that rear staircase that's being used for egress purposes. And we have received eight letters of support that we afford to the board as well from both the neighbors. And if you want to review the plans, I can step through those down. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members, say you got some with the Office of Neighborhood Services. The sample can complete the community process. Our office held in a butter's meeting and a butter had concerns about the poor conditions of the property, citing issues with trash. The aim of having neighborhood association also expressed concerns regarding the conduct of the absentee landlord at the property and allowing expansion of the property when it's in poor condition. The applicants were not able to meet with gate of heaven in our office while I can pursue them to continue to attend to meet with that group, that background in our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Councilor Flynn's office. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Sydney from Councilor Flynn's office. Councilor Flynn, I'd like to go on my current support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Any other questions from the board? We have a motion. I would like to speak, please. Okay. Well, we were in public comments. So can you state your name and address for the record? I'm sorry. I don't quite. I'm not good at this. Laura Lee Johnson, I'm the abutter at 88th Street. I had gone to the abutter's meeting that was held prior to this and I had expressed some concerns and it submitted some commentary prior to this meeting. And the concerns that I had expressed are still in play, I guess, and haven't been addressed in the plans. And to me, the changes that are being suggested in this are not going to improve anything on our street. And as an abutter, my concerns are still intact. And I don't see how what they are proposing is going to add anything to our street, but instead be kind of have more of a negative impact. And I is the abutter and one of the only owner occupied buildings left on the street. I'm trying to find a way to maintain the quality of life on our street. And as owners, I feel like I'm kind of shouting into the wind, trying to maintain a standard of living. And I feel surrounded by a lot of rental buildings now with absentee owners. And no one cares about the state of the focus on your app or opposition for this project. I'm opposed because first of all, there is no way to store the trash appropriately for this building. And this has been an ongoing issue and probably my number one concern. The trash is always stored in front of the building and with several barrels and they migrate in front of our house, which we take great pains to keep our barrels in the back. And this isn't being addressed at all. It seems like with two units instead of one, there's going to be an overcapacity of people in the building itself. They want to add and expand the roof, the decks on the house, which is going to add for more parties, more noise, more activity over there, which is already a problem. These are all part of me. So anyway, it's all listed in the notes that I sent in and I haven't heard anything to address the issues that I had. And how the changes in the building are going to negatively affect our property. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I address those concerns? Yes, please, before we don't bring. So the owner, I would like to go on record stating the owners are not absentee owners. They own 14 properties in self-bossed and live within two blocks of the current property 70 and each straight there. Very active in the management of all those properties. So they are not absentee landlords by any means. We previously met with Ms. Johnson in March, a dresser trash concerns. There is a rear egress that goes behind several buildings that has been planted over by other neighbors. We are in the process of working with those neighbors to free that egress, which would then allow trash to be stored in the rear of the building. As currently stated, there's no way to get the trash to the rear of the building because people have planted over the egress. So we are in the process of working through that process with those neighbors. Obviously, it took some time for the snow to melt before we could really address it and see the condition of the egress. But that is a concern that we are working on. There is no additional decks being added to the property. There is a small walkway being added to be able to exit from the second floor to get down to the yard in the case of an emergency. It is not designed to be a everyday usage. There is no space to put a grill or any type of hangout space there. There isn't existing roof deck on the property. We did address with the butter that we would build a privacy screen to kind of shed that a little more from her property. So I do feel we have addressed the majority of their concerns with this time. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none is there motion? Madam, should we go? Oh, dedicated. I'll put forward a motion of approval. I think these are largely internal renovations and much of the zoning relief is pre-existing. So I will face my motion to approve on that. Is there a second? Baraza second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Balencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Baraza. Yes. Chair votes just the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And next we have case, be aware, 1807562 with the address of 126 Crawford Street. If the applicant and the other representative are present, then please explain to the board. Hi, good morning. My name is Lynette, the owner at 126 Crawford. So the current conditions, it is an existing two family residential dwelling. The first unit occupies the first and second floors. The second unit occupies the third floor. The current access configuration to unit two requires indirect and entry via the rear stairs and does not provide a secondary means of egress. So the proposed project will provide a dedicated safer and clearer front entrance for the second unit. There will be no change in use or occupancy. I had the butter's meeting back in February and everything was positive. So this is currently where we stand. Thank you so much. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the recommended is Jeremy Bemberi, and the dojo's to community engagement specials for the Office of Neighborhood Services. Yes, and as completed the community process, which consists of an above-us rating, around January 26th, with no above-us present, no concerns were raised. Next, the proposed representative to Crawford, Harvard, Ruth Finn, Manona, Blombeck, and Lock Watch, where residents were very supportive. The data of the office has now received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and then the members of the member's services would like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, may I have a motion? Go ahead, no. Or make a motion of approval. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we well. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Betabraza. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 172-1164, with the address of 2 to 20 Fairmont Avenue. If the applicant and or the representative of the present, would they please explain to the board? Yes. I don't see anybody. Let me check. Shall we come back to this one, Madam Chair? Sounds good to me. The moment we move on to case B.O.A. 1809219, with the address of 123 Killsis wrote. If the applicant and or their representative of the present, would they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Mr. Muzer. Are you here for 123 Killsis? Killsis wrote. Does he need to be unmuted, Mrs? Yes. The person can be meet. Um, um, some user. You're allowed to. Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Charles Dumand. I live at 83 Pleasant Street in Cambridge, I'm in the architect of the project. Can you hear me? We can. It's perceived. Okay. Okay. So, so, I was asked to design a new rear porch and egress these units. The existing porch, or the existing egress did not be code. So we, we made a proof of the stair. We, um, we, we added a few feet to the, the decks to just allow better use the decks. And, um, there, there appeared to be no opposition. We, there was, there was an issue with zoning about, uh, which were the, you know, what was set back requirement, because it's a corner lot. It was a question of which side of the building was the rear, which was a side yard. Um, we, we had, um, we had claimed that the, uh, the, the, the, the rear deck was, um, was a side yard and a side yard. So the, the requirements setbacks were a little less. And, and based on that, it met, um, the setback requirements. So, um, so in any case, um, so we're hoping that, um, we can improve the safety for the residents and, and, and improve their quality of life to be able to sit. Uh, I'm sorry to have some outdoor space. Um, uh, that's all for now. Are there questions from the board hearing that in the public testimony? Madam Chair and Board members, you also have the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant distributed an informational flyer to all of us within 300 feet of the parcel, which solicited no comments to our office. And all of us can improve an association is supporting this application. That background our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Um, we have a person from the, an available mess. Yeah, and about a guy who's in the right now, so you're a proven association. We'd like to go and recognize the correctness of this. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you with that, Madam Motion. Motion you're heard. Seconds Mr. Stambridge. Yeah, Mr. Blancia. Yes. Mr. Lang. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is better browser? Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Okay, great. Thank you. Very good. Next, we have case B08 180 4162 with the address to our four or eight Vermont road. The applicants and or do represent a president. Will they please explain to the board? Good morning, Madam Chairman, members of the board. This is their exactress in architect for the project to present this, this project. Two four, Agramont. It's hold on the site plan for just a second just so we can be clear. There's a fairly large building at two four, Agramont. Our project is in the upper left hand corner of this diagram. You see a what was, I believe, formerly a garage and has been occupied as a two family dwelling for quite some time. Our client has purchased those two units and the project you'll see on the following pages. Is to expand and rehabilitate those two units and has nothing to do with the main house. Although they are part of a single condominium association. So next slide, please. Cover sheet, next slide, please. So you can see how the building sits adjacent to our neighbor at one six six six commonwealth have. Very close to the property line on that side and then actually has its own entrance and on commons. So coming, sorry, next street, next page. Yes, and so you see here on the existing, the proposed plans and the upper right, the first floor would continue to be a single one bed unit and the upper unit, which is currently a kind of awkward studio would be expanded to a third floor. And so the second and third floor represent that two vent to bathroom unit. Next slide, please. So you can see the proposal would be adding that that third story with a kind of game of roof and dormers. We wanted to be reflective of the existing, the existing home, which has a more traditional feel. And, and to kind of in live in the, the feeling of the current building, which quite frankly looks quite a bit like a garage, even though as I said, it's been an existing two family for quite some time. But you generally see the, the look of the building. So with that, I'll open it up. We turn to you for questions and answers. Any questions from the board? I'm hearing none. I have a comment. I have a comment. I'm chair and board members. So you're also at the office of neighborhood services. This applicant attended and the butter's meeting hosted by our office on January 20th of this year, where questions were asked. No opposition was voiced. The Brighton Austin Improvement Association is supporting this application. That back on our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we know how additional is hand sprays at the moment. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion of approval. In their second. Lackin. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wee-Roh. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. And it's better Brazil. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. First is case B.O.A. 1-8-2-5-8-8. With the address of 140 Strathmore wrote along with that, we have case B.O.A. 2-5-7-7. With the address of 18 and 63 Commonwealth Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain in cases to the board? Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Luis Santana. I would. Experienced. Thank you. Thank you. Um. These are two cases are two in one later 1863 Commonwealth Avenue. It's an existing to five minute which we're planning to. Make to make slight modifications to Combo Lady in the structure. and this also a corner of facing the Strathlua road and common road. We have multiple violations. This is a six unit building, a brand new construction. We're going to have three dwelling units, there are two bedrooms and three dwelling units that are one bedroom. And this will be facing Strathlua road. As you can see from the number of violations, they are connected because you have two or more dwellings of the same block. And we are reviewing this from this only perspective. As you see, each dwelling was in a separate block. And therefore, that generates a significant number of violations. As you can see from this block, the existing two-family facing common cloud view and the rear darker, almost rectangular area is the proposed new construction. I want to emphasize that there are existing carriages in the back two of them connected very old from the late 1800s. And this closure is subject to Boston Larmars' Commission review. We met extensively with them and I agree on the design that we are presenting to you today. Those garages will not be demolished because they have historical significance. And as you want to see on the later representation, they have been moved to the front of the block and they will be connected to the proposed structure because they have to be preserved based on the landmark standards. You can go to the next slide please. As you can see on that lower right corner, there is an existing picture of the rear portion of that block and the garages at the very far end. And those are the ones that will be restored relocated to the front and incorporated into the new construction. The rear deck, which is basically the only change to the existing two-family, you will see that on the next presentation for that case, we will shorten that deck and remove a small one in order to accommodate the new construction. And that is the only change. And the dash red line indicates the existing garage to be relocated to the front. And you will see that on the renderings that we prepared on the handle representation. Next slide please. This is a typical floor plan and those two squares on the front of the building, those are the actual existing garages. But the rest behind that L-shaped, in the front of the building, those are the garages and the new construction will be towards the rear of them. We're going to have, as I said, three units are to better use. Three units are one bedroom. This is a three-story building within the high limits of the zoning in that area. Next please. And this is your second floor typical, basically duplicate of the older stories. And the area with our construction that is the roof outline of the single-story garages that we are adding to the park. Next please. These are elevations. And as you can see, the floor elevation is shown in the garage which would be the drain and it would be used for parking. I'll equate for one compact space. And the other side of garage will be used as part of the first for the unit. And those are rear and side elevations from the adjacent block. The next slide is the rendering of how the two structures will work together. I just want to emphasize that landmarks was critical in creating this presentation. They insisted in duplicating some of the historical components of the existing buildings such as the roof materials and the stockings for more buildings. And that's why we end up. We don't have a final approval for landmarks, but the staff work with us in order to come up with this final design. The front of the building cannot accommodate up to two compact spaces. So we are the deficient of the number of spaces that are required for zoning. We go to the next slide please. And that is the side elevation from the rear, the view from the rear of the existing building. As you can see, the two of the carriages on the front and the rest of the structure. I just, I am here on the present in the order, which is a robot, a loginsky. And he's an active member of the community. He's a robot for a synagogue in the area that has more than a thousand members in the congregation. We receive extensive amount of money support from the community, the borders and the association. And the project has been very well received. We have the various is that we have our related the significant vertices are the use, which is separate videos because it's a key formula is only in this week. The various is in terms of the mention of requirements in parking are the minimums. They are excessive or deficient by a fraction. It would pertains to the open space at the lower area and the. And the requirements. So they are not significant and also the intent of this six units for. Excuse me for the most part is a commode and large family or the provide the as 12 kids. And it's planning to bring them home then to live on the property as well. So with that, I conclude the presentation. So I hope that the next case, which is related to this one, if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them. Any questions from the board? Okay. Yeah, public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, Sigi Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter's meeting was held for this application in conjunction with the 1863 Commat application on January 29th, the overwhelming number of the butter is for supporting the application, citing the positive community contributions of Rabbi Shulomonew-Ginsky to the Brighton community. One of butter expressed concerns about the density and whether the design was in fact compliant with the regulations of the Aberdeen Historical District Office received one letter of opposition from an a butter that has been forwarded to the board. Brighton also an improvement association is supporting this application that back under office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Next, we have Moira McRae. Hello, Moira, you can. Morning, can you hear me? Yes, I can. Sorry about that. My name is Marva Fri, I welcome the Council of the Brighton's Office. It comes with a letter from the department. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have another level of comments. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Annabelle Garmson, the Brighton House, and the Improvement Association. We'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Without me, I have motion. Motion to approve. There, it's second. Second. Mr. Spenbridge. Yes. Mr. Montio. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Chair Moira, just motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1809679 with the address of 55 Bostonia Avenue. Is the applicant and or their representative present with their presence of points of the board? I'm not sure if John is speaking with a lot of these case. He will be on the panel section now. Thank you. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Are we here to speak on 55 Bostonia Avenue? Yes, I am. Sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Matthew Penino, 56 Bostonia Avenue. And Brian. I'm just going back to you today to go over an FAR violation that I got while the building. Two families under construction. I just want to say that I'm not going to be able to go to the office. I decided to add a master bedroom and master bath in the attic, which then triggered an FAR violation. So let's see all the violations. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I apologize the morning? Madam Chair and board members, see you got to the office of neighborhood services. This applicant distribute an informational flyer regarding the previously approved project to all the butters and the 300 foot radius, which solicited no comments to our office. The Brighton Austin Improvement Association is supporting this application that back on our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Next, we have Maureen McCrate. Good morning, Mr. Maureen McCrate. Councillor Bain's office. Councillor Layton, all records for this project. Thank you. Next, we have Annabelle Lago Miss. Madam Chair, members of the board. Annabelle Gomeson, Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, additional comments. That may have motion. Motion to approve. You read the second. Chair. Mr. Fembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Miss Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Are you in mute, Mr. Collins? Yes. Okay. Miss Berberaza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Do. Madam Chair, we turn to one of the cases for 11 o'clock in the past. About case BOA, 172, 1164. With the adios of 2 to 20, Fembridge Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative of the president. But their plans to fund case BOA. Till no seeing anybody for this state. Okay. That case can have motion. Yes. Mr. Langem. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. All right, we'll see you in three minutes. Uh-huh. You You You You You You You President Mr. Blancia President Mr. Langham President Ms. Weow President Mr. Collins President Ms. Bedbraza President Floor of Jurisdance and Temperature. Thank you Madam Chair. Uh-huh. We'll begin with the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. Uh-huh. Before that we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 o'clock out. Hearing none. We'll begin with case BOA. 1-7-7-2081 With the address of 85 to 91 S. Extrude. If the applicant and with the representative present will take place by the case of the board. Good morning Madam Chairwoman. Mr. Secretary and members of the board. My name is Andrew Kara. I'm an attorney at Ruben and Rudman having a business address at 53 State Street. Also with us this morning is Carol rash the director of property management asset management for the Hamilton company. We're both appearing on behalf of the applicant Hamilton Essex Development LLC. We're here before the board this morning because we're seeking to extend the zoning relief that allows for the current parking use at 85 S. Extrude for an additional three years from this morning's hearing date. The parking use has existed at the property since the early 1990s and subject to periodic extension under the original zoning relief that was granted allowing for the parking use. The property consists of a 50 vehicle surface parking lot located at 85 S. Extrude in the Chinatown neighborhood of Boston. The parking lot is currently at least two when operated by 88 B.J. LLC, which is managed by Albert Luan. 88 B.J. LLC has run the facility since 2017 and it's least expires in 2028. My client is on the property since 2025. The parking use of the property is existed since at least the early 1990s based on the historical records. Access to the parking lot is provided off a legal curb cut off of Essex Street. There's a full-time parking attendant that closely monitors the use of the facility on a day-to-day basis. For a number of years the parking lots provided safe convenient and affordable off-street parking to the Chinatown neighborhood and its many thriving businesses. The facility also provides off-street parking to visitors and helps alleviate the use of on-street parking in the area. During the community process and at the request of the community my client has agreed to complete some landscaping improvements to the property this spring to help better screen and buffer it from the neighborhood. We're happy to incorporate this commitment into a formal design review provider. I will stop there for any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Regarding 85 to 91 effort in Essex Street, our office differs to the board's judgment. The community process was conducted with the community process was conducted including the distribution of a subcommittee fire on 10-23-25 in which my office received no responses from the community regarding the proposal. The proposal was also connected with the Chinatown Residence Association and the Chinatown Neighborhood Council where productive conversations were had regarding the repair of the sidewalk. And at this time the mayor's office and neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next we have a meeting from Councillor Flynn. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Sydney from Councillor Flynn's office. I'm sorry to say that I was in the middle of the discussion. I'm sorry to say that I was in the middle of the discussion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I know the additional comment. That may I have a motion? That chair will make a motion on the approval. And I will come ahead and set your provides. And the providers who are screening a buffer? Okay. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Wielo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Bayer-Brasa? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have 220. Next, we have case B.O.A. 180780. With the address of 226th Beacon Street. If the applicant and whether you're representing a present, will that please find the case to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Nick Sizzola, McDermick Quilty, Millard Hanley, State Street in Boston, here on behalf of the applicant. Next slide, please, Mr. Ambassador. Yes. The owner of this property sugar, Magnolia Trust, Janet and John. They purchased this building at 226th Beacon Street. In the back bay approximately one year ago, I had set empty for several years. They've been working hard to preserve the interior of the building while restoring the exterior to some of its original conditions. With me as well, from Coverture and Magnel Architects and Builders, is Eric and Joanne, because this is in the back bay historic district, architectural district, William Young, is on as well as our historical consultant. And folks from Coverture and Magnel are also the contractor and builders for the project. Next slide, please. And as I mentioned, they've been working hard over the past year, so to preserve the interior, but why we're here today is because of a change to the exterior of the building. And they're looking for permission of a construction of a new poroco structure with related improvements to the front building entrance at this long existing residential building. And looking to restore the buildings front facade, which you'll see in a moment, to its original 1864 appearance, which had a poroco. You can see on the left hand side the existing condition. And then on the right hand side is the proposed. The allowable setback is 20 feet for a front yard at this location. The existing setback is actually a slight non-conformity. The way it is today, without the poroco 19 feet 8 inches. But the historic setback, what it was previously in 1864, and what's being proposed now is actually 16 feet. So you'll see on the right hand side there's that vestibule kind of bump out, which is the reason behind the variance requirement for front yard setback. If you go to the next slide, I believe is just our refusal letter. Again, the only thing that's required here is front yard is sufficient. Again, just to reinstate that front poroco. With that, I'm going to toss it over to Eric at Carpentron-McNeum, who can quickly show you kind of this historic aspect of why this is being proposed, and then show a mockup of what it's going to look like when it's constructed. So Eric, I'll toss it over to you. Great. Thank you, Nick. Next slide, please. Good morning. I'm Eric Down. I'm a senior architect with Carpentron-McNeum, and I'm here with my colleague, John Powell. These three images show the original state of 226, and it's part of building 228 on Beacon Street, circa 1867. There were projecting porocos with stairs to landings. Sometime around 1942, the poroco at 228 was removed, and a bay window, or a royal window, was built in its place. Sometime around 1960, 1962, the poroco was removed at 226, and the entry was moved from the center of the first floor, down to the right-hand side at the garden level, with a sunken entry cord yard. Next slide, please. Two photographs, one from 2013, one current photograph, just showing the condition. You can see in the left-hand photograph, the artificial stone base that was applied sometime around 1960, that accounts for, because it projects about four inches from the existing rusticated base at 228, we believe that that is the cause of the current non-conformance. And you can see that that base is still in place at 226 in the contemporary photograph. It will be removed as part of the construction of the proposed poroco. Next slide, please. Looking back at the Bromley maps from 1895, and also from 1898 and 1909, you can see the area where 226 is within the square, that is highlighted on the map. We can go to the next slide. So 226 is highlighted here with the red arrow. You can see that the projecting poroco at that time projects about as far as the adjacent projecting bay at 224, and also about the depth of the adjacent property 228 with its bay window. But we're basically asking to re-apply to the same distance from the encroachment within the setback, which is obviously historically been. Next slide, please. So in this view down, Beacon Street looking east, you can see 226 and 228 with their matching poroco's just on the left hand side of the photograph. A series of staircases running up to first floor landings, the length of the block. But these two projecting poroco's presented somewhat unique condition. There are many examples like them within back bay. Next slide. The detailed photograph from 1941 showing the poroco that we hope to restore. And another contemporary photograph on the right, showing the condition in 1941 when it was still accident. Next slide. Just a view down, Beacon Street looking toward the property at 226 with an arrow indicating roughly where it would be. An example of the steps that are typical and the landings that are typical along Beacon Street and throughout back bay. Next slide. This is a close-up view showing the Sunkin Courtyard and existing and dreams of the lower level. Next slide. So again, returning to this slide, showing our proposed poroco and steps. We project four feet from the setback, giving a total setback of 16 feet, which is similar to what's happening at 224 and also at 228. There'll be a planning bed to the west of the stairs and then stairs down to a lower level entry underneath the poroco. Next slide. So two drawings showing the existing conditions on the left and our proposed poroco on the right. And then a section drawing showing how the stairs with a storage area underneath it for mechanical devices. We assume that the gas shut off and water shut off will be in that area. And then how we have recessed the lobby vestibule into the facade a little bit in order to maintain that four foot setback. And then here are two rendering showing how that might look on the street. So thank you for your time. Madam Chair, if I may, just wanted to thank the Back Bay Architectural District and Commission of the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. Although this is just a front yard variance and fairly straightforward from a zoning perspective. As you can tell, there's a lot that went into this to get it to this point. And we had really great discussions with both groups. So I just wanted to wrap up by saying that. And also to mention that we did get a planning department recommendation of approval for the project. So thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I do. I have a question regarding accessibility. I'm not sure how many units are existing. But I would imagine that you would trigger accessibility issues. And are you getting a MMAB variance for that? Yeah, or do you want to address anything? It's a single family residence. Okay. This is single family. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair and board members, see you also at the Office of Neighborhood Services. We're also associated on a butters meeting regarding this application on January 27th. Two of others had concerns about how the proposal would affect the historical aesthetics in a landmark district. They cited that the proposed port goes two feet deeper than the original one. And the building is intended to be a symmetrical twin of the next door building. The applicants explained that they needed to balance the historical aesthetics with changes to the building code since the building's construction was necessitated by the design that they are proposing. The butters and the neighborhood association of the back bay and the back bay architectural commission will continue to engage in a dialogue that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm here on behalf of Councillor Sharon Durgan, who represents the back bay. I just want to thank the proponent for the work that they've done with the neighborhood to get this right. And we did receive the letter from the app of non-opposition to this. So for those reasons, Councillor Durgan urges support of this proposal. Next, we have Christine Simonelli. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Christian, similarly bossing around on a trust. I just wanted to confirm that our oldest project was not cited for G-Cod because this is exterior work only. This was before the board in 2021. And there is an existing recharge system that has been approved and is in place and there is just some question of that. And neighborhood and I just want to confirm that here today. The board. Thank you. Thanks. Madam Chair, I know all these from our comments. Is that Madam motion? Madam Chair, may I address one of the comments that was made. This is Eric Downs. Yes, sorry. At the neighborhood meeting on January 27th, there was a recommendation that we pull the building, pull the project and portico back two feet. And further examination, we were able to pull the building back. So we listened to the neighborhood committee on January 27th and were able to comply with their request. Thank you. Was there a question from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I really appreciated learning a little bit about the history. The architecture team consulted a historic consultant. That's pretty well known with that. I would like to put forward a recommendation of approval. 30 seconds. Second. Second. Mr. Embraach. Yes. Mr. Relentia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Madam Brasow. Yes. Chair Moves. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Next week, we have companion R80 cases. The first is case B.O.A. 1, 2, 271, 6. The address is 52 Pluntland Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 1, 2, 272, 0. The address is 65 to 79 Wairra Ampstreet. It's the applicant and the representative of the project. Will they please explain these to the board? Good morning, members of the board. My name is Josh Grant and I am the developer of the project. I want to walk you through the project at 52 Pluntland Street. Next slide, please. This project is 44 new residential units, 8 of which are affordable artists live work units, which puts us over the 17% minimum affordability both by percentage unit account, we're actually at 19% of the building square footage. The project has garnered a lot of community support support and for good reason it includes a arts gallery and community cultural space on the ground floor that supports the art of work's use and also supports the history of artists in this neighborhood that indoor space is then connected to an outdoor sculpture garden that will be an extension of the gallery and community space during more or months. It has a contextual design that has been had a number of advisory already with the landmarks commission. We are going to be improving the public realm in the form of a complete streets compliance sidewalk in front of the building as well as extending the sidewalk beyond our property down to all the new street where there's no sidewalk currently. We have 44 bike parking spaces and up to 19 vehicle parking spaces. We have a payment to the Boston Transportation Department Blue Bike Program and during our article 80 process we had 100% community support and I believe we have support today from Newark Business Improvement District as well as the Lapsome Franklin Neighborhood Association. Environmentally it's an all-electric building. It is climate resilient in the form of compliance with the seafrawed zoning overlay. We are going to be building a bit passive house standard and we are going to be exploring and looking very hard at onsite renewable energy as well as three new trees. Next slide please. The site is located on Plimpton Street between Harrison and Albany and here you can see below to the right of the building the section of the sidewalk that will be completed beyond our property line. Next slide please. There are currently reparsals all in public ownership and that part of the companion variance that is next up on the document is to re-draw the lot lines. Next slide please. So that we end up with two parcels. One supporting 52 Plimpton Street which is on the lower half of the page now and then a renewable potential future development of the three existing buildings that front on Wariam Street. Next slide please. The garage is underneath the building access by a ramp along the left side of the property. We have worked very nicely with the BPDA and specifically our project manager Dillon Norris to coordinate through the modernized article 80 process. Comprehensive review of our sidewalk and our entry sequence to be both complete streets compliant, raw department approval and allowing for our handicap access to access the building from the main entrance so that a lift or ruler will also complying with C-Frog which elevates the top of floor approximately four feet above the sidewalk. Next slide please. This is our ground floor plan and you can see that we have eight of our artist's live work units which are actually duplexed with a mezzanine above so these are going to be very interesting and unique spaces that we think are conducive to an artist's live work use with double height space for approximately half and then live work as well on the left hand side. Through the rear you can see the gallery community use space and how that connects to our courtyard in the rear and then we also in the front the lobby have an additional gallery space that is from a just a building program and wayfinding procession is part of the residential building but it's an opportunity to publicly display and showcase artwork ideally from the artist who are living in the building. Next slide please. So we are using contextual massing contextual materials while also self-acted in this new building and where it is in our opinion doing a very successful job of both respecting the architectural tradition and the architecture of the nature of the neighborhood while also not pretending to be an old building. Well being a new building and should the board have any questions specifically around the design. Our architect, our true alien of a sac architecture is available to answer our next slide please. From a zoning perspective the only dimensional variance is for rear yard setback and that is actually only required because of projected balconies we have on the rear of the building to add to usual open space for the people who live on floors two through five. The actual footprint of the building is 20 feet away per layer of required setback. We are not required not seeking a zoning relief or we are not seeking any zoning relief for density just to rear yard setback as dimensional variance. Our parking we are at 0.36 per unit. We are seeking a variance to not have a loading date and that is large because we don't think it's needed given the need to building and also we have a through our design and made accommodations for trash removal without a loading dock. We have a variance for an accessory structure on the rear yard and that structure is primarily to support the sculpture garden and exterior programming and we also have the companion variance that will here next for 65, 79 warehams which is functionally a redrawing of the lot lines. It's what is triggering that. Conditional use wise residential and other work uses are conventional in the EDA and while that was a conditional use from the zoning was when the overlay was established I believe about 15 years ago the neighborhood has been trending very meaningfully towards mixed use and we even though it's just outside the new mark business and proven district. We had a lot of direct engagement with new mark BID and they have offered their support including the residential use. We also need a conditional use for a DINCOD and we need a it's in respect to parking overlay district to allow for parking space accessory to with the gallery. So with that I would open it up to the board for any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes Madam Chair. There's a number of home ownership units being provided which is a good thing. There are income restricted units. What is the AMI for the? For those who are 80% half of them are at 100%. Okay. Thank you. Yes I have a follow-up question all these. I see that the project has three veterans, two veterans, one veteran, loves and studios and my question is why out of the eight IDP units that you are offering to a citywide there are no one two and three veterans. I understand that they should be a mix and so I that is a question for you and I so for anyone from the mayor office of housing here. From our perspective the because there is a clear cultural use for the artists live work spaces that this is a different this is an intentionally differentiated unit to support live work and I think that that is the short answer for it and in terms of them being on the ground floor which is not typical the idea is to create a center of gravity around the arts use when the live work spaces on the ground floor are supported by the gallery space on the ground floor as well. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board of the board of the board of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The time the mayor's office is deferred to the judgment that is board it's back information committee process. It's went through a Boston component. A community process involving a public meeting over the summer. The applicant connected with the Blackstone Franklin Neighborhood Association which was fully in support of the project. I appreciate it working with the Patonins. I would like to refer to the board. Next we have Dele Norris from the planning department. Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Dylan Norris. I am the project manager with the development review division of the planning department and the project manager for the article 80 small project before you today. The proponent team filed their small project review application in relation to the 50 Clinton Street project on June 27th 2025 which was distributed through the south end neighborhood distribution list. The planning department also sponsored and hosted a virtual public meeting on July 23rd. Public meetings were posted on the planning department calendar and website advertised in local newspapers. Email notifications were also sent out to subscribers of the south end email neighborhood email update list. Look elected officials in their staff were also notified of the meeting. The comment period for the small project review application closed July 28th 2025. The public meeting was well attended and the project was received during the course of the comment period. The project received 11 letters of support from the community and zero letters of opposition. The project was then reviewed and brought before and approved by the planning department board on November 12th 2025. I am happy to answer any questions and members of the board have related to the article 80 process that we defer to your judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have seen the from the conservative office. Thank you Madam Chair and Members of the board. This is Sydney from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn went on record and support in November at the BPDA board with this project and we'd like to go on record and support again today based on feedback from the Blackstone Franklin neighborhood association. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Christen Simon. Morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. Christen Simon. I'm from the BOS and Groundwater Trust and we have chief car letters for 22 Clinton Street in the companion case 65 to 79 Warrant Street. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Without minor affairs. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is a minor affairs executive director for the Carpentry Labor Management Program with the Carpentry Union. This is what I go on record and support the project and remind the developer to kind of higher subcontractors and general contractors that meet community standards and will hire our Boston residents and this project. Thank you. Thanks. And next we have Jessica Bulco. Good morning everyone. My name is Jessica Berco. I am commenting on 52 Clinton Street. I am a working artist with a studio on Warrantam Street for 20 years and I'm the president of the board of the United South and artists and I want to allheartedly support this wonderful endeavor. Thank you. Thank you, Ben. We have it. Ben Murphy. My name is Ben Murphy and with the big-market business improvement district. The new market is a representative of all the property owners, residents and businesses in the new market area. As was mentioned earlier by Joshua Brant, this project is just outside of our physical borders but they have been very engaged in bringing it before us nonetheless. We are very much in support of this project. Normally, new market would not be frailed about the conversion of an industrial building into residential but seeing as the building has done historically under utilized and is incorporating a significant amount of maker space we're happy to make an exception for this project and fully supporting it. Thank you. My name is Chern. There's no additional comments. Where that man has a motion? Where that motion I'm going to move through. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Dibrasa. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Ben, chair, before we move on, it's 11.33 so at this point, I'll ask if there are any requests or withdrawals of the furloughs from the old 30th reading discussion case? Are you raising your hand for what? I just wanted to make sure I had seen on the screen that we skipped over the second item that we second B.O.A. case we have and I just wanted to make sure we were going to be heard. Okay, well let's finish what we're doing right now. We had read that in. So whether that comes or not. Okay. Okay, so it sounds like there are no deferrals or 11.30 so we'll go back. Okay. So we'll leave we're referring to case B.O.A. 182-2720 with the address of 65 to 79 where Amstery? And to confirm Mr. Stembridge, you had read that as a companion case already correct? That is correct, Madam Chair. Okay, so that's what we're going on. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Okay, so with that, we'll then return to the 11am cases and we will be going to case B.O.A. 172-156ero with the address of 323 Washington Street. This is a Canvas case. So we'll ask if the applicant and or they represent a more present to present the board. Yes, we are, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. That's the work. And proceed. Yep. Thank you, Madam Chair. And, Madam Members, I'm Asard Parzibach, a business consultant helping Josh Gones, who's also present with Canvas licensing. This is Josh's one-stop shop convenience store since 2019 that was approved to add legal Canvas by the BCB in December 2025. And it got its hose agreement in January. In going through the process, Josh determined that the landlord and we can actually scroll down to the drawing. If you would, that's our plan. Thank you. He determined that the landlord only had 323 Washington for his building, which includes a currently unused tenant space. So Josh formally changed this space to 323A. So in the drawing here, you can see that this is actually what the exact of the current convenience store is. And the only changes that were made were to add a little room that I don't want in Bumi, a central right part of the drawing. And below that is an ID check where a second door was added. So those are the only changes that were made. Structurally, the BCB approved it as far as security and operations. You can confirm this. So this is converting from a general kind of a, I don't know if it was a convenience store or something else to solely Canvas or adding Canvas. Yeah, that's a good point. The original intent is to add Canvas because it's a smoke shop. So it kind of already had a over 21 section in the back and it did sell food and things up front. The cannabis control commission has now allowed food to be sold in stores because they're preparing for the social consumption regulations. So essentially, Josh has turned us into a convenience store or proposes to turn into this same convenience store that's adding Canvas, removing tobacco because you cannot sell tobacco in cannabis in same facility. So we're removing tobacco and then his store will his convenience store slash Canvas store will be $20 on an offer. So it's sort of the first of its kind in Boston to just try and create a model of a convenience store that is compliant with the state regulations or cannabis. So you can still go in and get chips in soda and you can get cannabis but you are required to be 21 another. So can we talk a little bit more about the security aspects then because obviously this is a little bit different than we've seen before. You're comingling things. For sure. Yeah, so the only, so if you look at the far right of the drawing, that's the entrance. There will be an ID check person, you have some parity guard outside who checks IDs for rights upon entering. You'll also see a white rectangle in the middle of that first base. That is a little counter where a employee sits and that purple space there is where the non-cannabis products will fit. So there'll be shelves. That is literally what it is right now. There's shelves there and that's where chips soda and things are sold. And then if the customer only wants those products, they buy it and they leave. If they also want cannabis products, they go back to the back of the store through the ID check, a little area. And then in the green center part, you see another white rectangle for particulars. That is the one-of-sale area for cannabis. The vault there is obviously where it's stored. There's going to be another employee in the back at the point of sale area there. And then the rents to the whole, where the skinny always is the left and then all of the corridors and bathrooms, etc. Those are all private, back at house facilities. What are the operations? Josh, I mean if you have this better than me because you're currently operating Josh, is it end of seven? I believe that they are? Or are you going later? Sorry, 10 to 9 PM. So that's your changing the time to make it leaner, is that already the time? You know, I believe the time is actually 10 to 9 PM. Josh, if you're on here and you can, I think that's incorrect. I know it's not seven because it goes later. Thank you. All right. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a quick clarifying question. So I think you kind of lost me after the shop. How would someone a customer exit the facility? And I think what I'm sort of honing in on is that lobby space in blue? That is actually a little confusing there. That is all private, completely private. The reason why that's called a lobby is because the doors on the lower part of the drawing go into the tenant space that is next door to them. That tenant is a hair salon. They can go into that back lobby as they are tenant only and they can access those 88 bathrooms. But they do not have access to the store. That is only for tenants of the building. It's a common space. And so any customers that enter from the right hand side of the facility go in through the purple space, through the ID check, into the sales floor area, and then they go back out the ID check when they are finished with the bridge. Back out the front door, just like a regular convenience store that you go in, this one door and you go out that same exit door. So anything that's far left in the drawing is all completely private to us. Okay. Yeah, I think just kind of honing in on the ID check area, people are going in and out. How will that be secured if customers are exiting through there as well? I think there's typically sort of locks on the door and people have to be buzzed in while it worked that way. Okay. It is going the person at the front of the store will buzz them into that first ID check area and that secondary door does stay closed, but it's got a window. So in fact, I think Josh will have, there is a third employee so that person, there's an ID check person there. So essentially there's four. One at the front door, one at the first or in a sale area, one person who is running the sales floor and making sure that ID check happens, they don't have to technically have their ID check at the second ID check door, but that person buzzes to people in that secondary door and then there is the fourth employee, sorry, one, two, three, four. Yeah. The fourth employee that is at the point of selling. So it's a very tiny operation, he currently, you know, serves his neighbor, Reddident and we've heard about calculations about how many customer he gets now or his CVD products and tobacco products. There are dispensaries nearby and a lot of dispensaries. We've got a little saturated in Austin so we don't anticipate, you know, droids of people in here. It's just a, maybe, you know, a few people per hour that come in and leave. So we anticipate that it's going to be more like a small convenience store and less like a big retail dispensary that serves hundreds of people in it. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Let's take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chairman, this is the board, the conor, Newly With the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. Some fact, I mentioned the community process. Oh, and I said, hosting the butters, being on July 23rd, it was well attended. There was a mix of opinions in the meeting. Some residents were in support, citing Josh's element. She worked with the community and felt that this was an opportunity for another minority owned business to thrive in this space. There were those who had concerns expressing the felt there was already a number of dispensaries in the doorchester area and were concerned about another one being added to that, as well as concerns with the spacing, you know, would be large enough for this type of optimization. We received nine letters in support from doorchester residents, a couple of them with addresses, not far from the 323 Washington Street. We also received notices from the Harvard Washington Norwell Neighborhood Association, which was opposed, as well as the Greater Chamberlain Neighborhood Association, who was also opposed as well, citing that they felt that this kind of high level business with a lot of regulations would be difficult for the applicant to succeed at. Without information, we'll defer the board at this time. Eventually it was, as you're aware, approved by the Boston Canvas Board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have an Estacia. An Estacia. Keep going. Well, there is another person who wrote a comment on the, there is no position. Not sure if this is part of some of the comments from the community process, right? Can I ask, are there any other reasons? No, there is another person. Now, Moira or Manuline? Okay, yeah, I'm just wondering. Could you hear me? Yes. Okay, sorry. So, I am also, we sent in a message also in from Fort Corners Main Street, where we were like very, very concerned, along with the fact that there are those two churches on either so, actually, three churches in the neighborhood. It's a convenience store. We definitely, as a Main Street, want to see all of our local, small businesses thrive and do well. But I just think, as we are cleaning up the Fort Corners area, we're really disturbed and troubled that this, it even passed that it went through that the commission approved this. But we don't want children going into this establishment to buy soda, whatever, you know. And then there's this dispensary, though, people have to walk past them to get to. It's just a bad idea, period. And I just wanted to convey that and just speak. I know many of our surrounding neighborhood associations opposed it. So, it's not even clear to me how this community, how this even passed. But that's beside the point it did. And this is where we are now. We are not approved. We're not in, we just don't want anything like that to happen in that area. I think he's doing fine as he is. But a dispensary, there is one like around the corner, not a good idea. So thank you for hearing me. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I'm asked from a consular warrior. Would I to go in a position? Okay. Can the applicant answer how long has this person been in business and is this the like the only still wanting operated that related to that? I can answer that. So that's since 2019. And he does have another convenience store that he operates. I believe it rocks very. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a motion. If I could provide one last point of reference, possible. Quickly. Just that he is a social advocate who is the recipient of a grant and he's slated to get a $200,000 grant, which he can only apply to this business. So this will, that grant, the state will provide a lot of benefits to the actual cosmetics of the front of the store. So the grant is specifically for this cannabis proposal. Is that what you're saying? That's correct. Can you remind me again how close is a nearby cannabis store to the proposal occasion? I so by my calculations, it is about 0.4 miles. So it's about several blocks away. There was one, about 617 that it closed down. So I believe the closest one is pure oasis, which is almost a half mile. And can you remind me again the regulation from the cannabis, how far away the cannabis should be? Typically, is the mile radius? Yeah, the state does not have a buffer requirement or other establishments only for schools of 500 feet, but the city of Boston has a buffer requirement of a half mile. Half a mile. That's right. And there's a lot of precedent for waving that just because of various neighborhoods. Or, you know, the board determining that two can be in the same neighborhood. There are some neighborhoods where there are literally two within a couple hundred feet of each other. In this case, it would be many blocks. Okay. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. I just have more of a comment in a question, I guess. I appreciate that your client's a social equity applicant. I think the thing that's giving me pause personally is that you have this sort of unrestricted use of a convenience store co-located with a use that requires additional security measures. So I just, I don't know if I really have the confidence that the two uses can coexist on the same site. And I just question whether your client would be eligible for the grant at a different site. I think I'm just not convinced that this is the right location for this, with how the two uses will operate together. That's a good point. I could just think of the thoughts of how are you looking for other board members? I think just throwing it out there, I'm not sure where my colleagues are at, but if the client would like to respond to them, I just want to be transparent where my name is. I think Katie, I still want this to come back and forth. No, no, I think Katie, you do have a good point in regards to like setting a topology like a new precedent of a mixed use of convenience store slash cannabis. Has that, you know, do we have that in existence currently in the city of Boston? Typically the user is separate. So I think it, you know, I would love to hear Hampton let us know if for zoning wise if there is a mixed use that has been approved in the past. Are you available, Mr. Hampton? Yes, thank you Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hinton, City of Boston Planning Department. This is the first that I can recall where this is going to be in addition to an existing use, specifically the convenience store use. As you had mentioned, Ms. Bedaburaza, usually it's a standalone use and this is the first that I can recall of this being added to an existing retail use. Great, thank you. Thank you. I don't have any further questions, I think we're good. Can I make a comment on that? Yes, please. I would just sit there listening to what they were saying. To me, the neighborhood is kind of against this. That doesn't sound really good of a right to store in a cannabis because a lot of the children that lives in the neighborhood is going to go back and forth the next door. So me myself, I just have to say I'm against this. Okay, any other feedback from board members before we have motion? Madam Chair, I'm happy to put forth the motion. Please. I'm going to put forth the motion of denial of prejudice. Like I said earlier, I just don't think this is quite the right site for this and I don't know within this existing confines and layout that the two uses can operate together. So those are the same concerns I echoed earlier, so that's the motion I'm putting forward. Thank you. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge. I'm going to go with no. I believe that I would believe for what I've heard, I think they have enough measures in place to take care of those. It's one thing to have to start a standalone business on its own along these lines. It makes it, yes, maybe not a right thing to say more convenient, but in terms of getting things going so I'm putting up. Okay, Mr. Valencia. When I want both, yes, there are similar establishments in the area. So I think we're based on the community feedback about this location. I agree with the motion. Mr. Langham. I won't know. The motion. Sorry, I'm sorry. Oh, yes, I'm sorry. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Wewell. Yes, and for the reasons I stated earlier, but I hope your client can find another space that's better suited to this and utilize the grant. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Who's better, Brasa? I'm going to vote yes. I don't think location is an issue. I think it's more of a zoning issue in regards to use and setting precedent. So this is what I'm voting, yes, I think the convenient use that have that any age can enter an establishment versus one of cannabis, which is a regulated use per age, those two use needs to be separated. It air votes yes, the motion carries. Next, we have case BOA on 818661 with the address of five Ashland street. It's the applicant's and or the representative president. The colleagues explain to the vote. Good morning, Madam Chair. When was the board? My name is Charlie Tafner. I'm the attorney of 15 Broad Street, Boston. I'm appearing on behalf of the applicant, Sean George, a certified Boston and the developer, Raymond Boros, a Boros properties LLC. The existing property at five Ashland street contains a two family residence in some distrape of one of 16,300 and seven four square foot live, which is 75 feet wide by 240 feet long. The proposal is to construct a townhouse style dwelling with section units which units live like single single family homes, each for three bedrooms, an office, three and a half baths, and catering towards families who wish to stay in the city. Each unit comes with two garage parking spaces at grade. There are three stories proposed. The height is 33 feet and the size of each unit is approximately 2100 square feet. The building is designed to appear more like a single family toilet from the street and with the pitch, roof and cable and facing Ashland street, it ties well into the fabric and history of the clientele's vehicle. The parking is located approximately one half mile from the fields corner ABTA station and approximately one half mile to the Salon Hill natural area and waterfront into the free course street in Marseille about a dollar less. The Croponian, John George and Boros properties LLC is completed the neighborhood classes and the above classes with strong support from director buyers. We have submitted to the board a number of letters to support them director buyers including the bodies at one the nine Ashland, Aladdin Ashland, 31 rear Ashland, etc. There is no opposition of which we are aware. We've also been in close communication with the Office of District City Council, John Fitzgerald. We got a proposed project before during the after the period process. Looking at the surrounding contacts we feel that this project is appropriate. There are multi-family residents located on nearly all sides of the property and is noted by the planning department number five Ashland street is the largest residential lot on the block and is suitable for development of multiple units of housing and the design respects the surrounding scale and character of the neighborhood and furthest city planning places. We have a sample that the planning department has recommended approval of this project with designing a view of the night road increasing the existing building alignment to preserve historic character where property and the planning department recommendation concludes that the requested zoning relief for this project is appropriate. We would like to note the page two of the planning department recommendation further suggests that the building we set back six week further than design it from increased the alignment without it buildings on the street and existing 15 foot yard depth. Again what is proposed is a nine foot setback from the lot line. To the edge of the block watch in response we believe that the planning department recommendation could be met by adjusting the plans to increase the fun yard setback from 90 to 15 feet which adjustment would also then not create additional variance needed from the rear yard depth. Finally I would like to also note there is a mining type of graphical error in the planning department's recommendation supporting the requested relief in that statement refers to the proposal as a fine unit project when it is always been a section project. I would definitely defer to Jeff Hampton from the planning department who I believe can confirm that the reference to five units in the recommendation is a minor type of graphical error. Lastly the proponent Sean George and Raymond Boulgos as well as the architect Eric Stapiston of Climpsex Architects are also available on the scene to answer any process or design related questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? My madam chair members of the board my name is David Jones representing the mayor's office and neighbor and services. Regarding five Ashlands Street are office differs to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted including on a butters meeting held on 2 3 26 that was likely attended by community members. A productive conversation was having regarding the proposal. Additionally we did also receive six letters in support to which we're from direct about it. The proposal was not in the catchment area of any civic associations and was not requested to meet with any. At this time the mayor's office and neighbor services differs to the board's judgment. On this matter thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Hello Madam Chairments and board members from Council Fitzgerald's office are off the Lakeland records to propose a thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair there are no additional comments. Okay on that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ronesia. Yes. Mr. Langeham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Beraza. Yes. Chair votes yes the motion carries. Mr. Langeham. Thank you everyone. Next we have case B.O.A. 182-3317 with the address of 185 White Schussen Street. If the applicant is good and though they represent a present what they claim is based on the board. Yes. Good morning. I am Stephen Bailey. I am the homeowner here at 185 White Schussen Street. We seek a few items of relief for our home in order to expand up a level on an existing conforming not conforming property to add a couple of bedrooms and a bathroom for our family in an effort to stay in the city of Austin. We are looking to add approximately 600 grows square feet to the building at the rear of the property which you can see there in this demo plan that the square was where the addition will be. We are as a result that needs we need F.A.R. relief relief a number of stories and side yard setback relief given the existing conforming not conforming nature of the house. We are looking to go from a point five three existing F.A.R. to point six eight with point six being the threshold and going from two stories with an unconditioned attic to a partial to essentially a three story partial three story building. We are only encroaching on our side setbacks and as the zoning request was only relief request outlines and height is all good and we're just it's just a number of stories that we're trying to go for here. We're designing the building, the Woodborne neighborhood that we are in. You've been part of been here for 13 years and love it and has a very strong sense of history and community around the technology and the diverse buildings in the neighborhood. We're looking to go from a point five to a three story building. We're looking to maintain the craftsmanship of this home and bring details of the existing home into the addition that really homogenizes the whole building and maintains the existing character in the neighborhood. We've been through a community process. There have been no comments or request for changes that we received directly and really looking to improve our families while you're life and stay residents of city of Austin. Thank you. I turn it over. Thank you guys for the time. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant asked a plea to the community process which consists of a facility tonight December 8th. That was very well received by the community with overwhelming community support. Our bodies were pleased to be informed and happy to see the proposal constructed. Next, the proponent presented the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council on January 7th when they voted to approve the proposal. To date, our office has received one letter of support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council requesting the board to approve the proposal. Thank you for your time and the members' office of Neighborhood Services. I'd like to defer. Thank you. I'd like to defer. No additional comments. Madam Chair, I'd like to thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Bettebrassa. Yes. Parable. It's just the motion carries. Next, we have case B.O.A. 180815 with the address of 67 Bell Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. I want to thank you all for granting us time to speak in this proposal. It's 67 Bell Avenue. What's Roxbury? Whitney this morning and Assassin's Unies Antonio Fraura, who is the proponent. 67 Bell Avenue. It's 1S6000 zoning. Lots of 3600 square feet. Projects pretty straightforward. It's proposes to construct a single family home upon an existing vacant lot. The proposed house would be two and a half stories comprised of bedrooms with two Ossbury parking spaces, the total living areas approximately 1743 square feet. And this will provide a home ownership opportunity on an currently unutilized yacht lot. The dwelling itself will fit into the context of the community, which is primarily made up of single family homes. This proposal will do a full community process within a butter's meeting, as well as a meeting for the West Rochbury neighborhood council zoning committee, who unanimously supported this proposal. Additionally, outside of that, we have provided the board, as well as on S, the 16 letters of support. I think 10 of which come from Bell Avenue, which is really not a long street. As stars of violations, the only real violation we have on this project is FAR. Allowed in this table is a point four. We are at a point four eight. You can notice that we have everything is else existing because it's an undersized lot. But we don't have a rare yard. We do not have side yard violations because the developer and architect work directly with the community to work all that out. In the front yard violation required a 20 feet, we're at 13. And that is you can look for the BPA recommendation of approval will also states that that is consistent with what's in the neighborhood. I'm happy to answer any questions. Appreciate the opportunity. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Here and another. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, so you've gone through with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed in a butters meeting on January 22nd, where a butters were supportive. No concerns were raised. The West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council is supporting this application. And our office has received 15 letters of support all from a butters that have been forwarded to the board. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we know how the additional comments. Okay. Will that be a motion? Madam Chair, make a motion of approval. There a second. Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Yes. Here are the motion carries. Thank you, everyone. And you are the rest of your day. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1803940, with the address of 40 to 42 Ashwood Street. If the applicant and other representative are present, would they please plan the case of the board? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Attorney Jacob Taylor, with Klein Hornig at 101 Arch Street, representing Austin Brighton Community Development Corporation. We're here today to request relief under Section 9-1 for extension of a nonconforming use in connection with the rehabilitation of the Affordable Housing Development located at 40 to 42 Ashwood Street in Austin. Austin Brighton CDC plans to renovate the building to update the interior of the units, incorporate energy efficiency upgrades, and provide a fully accessible kitchen on the first floor level. Mayor's Office of Housing is providing funding for these renovations. And as part of the renovations, a one-bedroom unit would be converted to an SRO unit to make space for the new kitchen, which our architecture team is, or we'll show you renderings of. As part of the, we're requesting the relief for the extension of the nonconforming use take. Formalized occupancy is 10 SRO units, one studio unit and one bedroom unit, one one bedroom unit. The history of the official occupancy of this structure is a little bit complicated. Records indicate that the property was operated as an SRO or lodging facility going back to the 1940s. Austin Brighton CDC acquired the property in 1991 and has operated as affordable housing for individuals since that time. It was initially operated as housing for persons with HIV or AIDS, but it's no longer targeted for this population. Since ABCDC or Austin Brighton CDC has acquired the property, it's included a studio and two one bedroom units. Records within the building jacket are inconsistent as to the number in the makeup of the units. A 1992 determination by ISD listed the occupancy as 11 lodging units, but other records from that time and earlier show 12 lodging units or 11 lodging units in a larger unit. And in connection with the proposed renovations year requesting relief under 9-1 to formalize the post-renovation occupancy as it will exist at that time with 10 SRO units, one studio unit and one bedroom unit. Austin Brighton CDC has engaged with the community regarding the renovations and the proposed change in the occupancy. They've met with the Austin Civic Association on February 18th. New objections were raised from neighbors or from the Civic Association and the Civic Association and submitted a letter in support of the project. Senator Brownsberger, representative Hone and Councillor Braden have also submitted letters of support. And with that, I'll turn it in unless the board has questions at this time. I'll turn it over to the project architect, Shannon Finestie from Joy Square to provide a very brief overview of the proposed renovations. Hi, I'm Shannon Finestie and a digital designer with Joy Square Design. According to 42 Ashford Street is a proposed bubble to residential renovation that provides improvements to accessibility opportunities to build community and social connections and an extensive deep energy retrofit to reduce energy consumption. At the exterior of the structure, all existing finishes are to be removed and replaced with a continuous air barrier, rigid insulation, and new composite side of roofing material. All windows and doors will be replaced and the exterior decks will have new composite decking material. Within the site, new concrete rockways will be installed to provide an accessible entrance to the building, as well as a more permanent path to the trash receptacles at the rear of the building. At the interior of the structure, the existing floor plan at each floor will be minimally modified to improve egress. At the first floor, a group to a accessible studio apartment will be created providing an accessible bathroom and laundry facility within the unit. The first floor will also provide an accessible common kitchen and common laundry that will be available to all residents. 42 Ashford Street will have all new ERV units installed at each floor providing constant fresh air and exhaust to each stage. All buildings and sites will be fully electrified with new heat pumps providing residents air conditioning for the first time. The existing sprinkler system will be modified to accommodate the new floor plan revisions in all existing plumbing fixtures, what we replace with energy efficient water sense fixtures. All proposed updates are to provide the residents with a more accessible home while providing significant energy savings. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madame Chair and board members, Sigi Jatsuo, the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the community process, an office oversight distribution of an informational flyer to all occupied parcels and a 300 foot radius which solicited no comments. And the also civic association is in support of its application. That background judgment is deferred to the board. Thank you. Next we have Joe Baker from Office of Housing. Thank you very much. I would show back her senior development officer with the mayor's office of housing. We have awarded $800,000 in funds to support the deep energy retrofit. That was to describe this property and have been working closely with the team throughout the process to ensure the benefits for the residents that were described. So we are in support of this project. Thank you. Next we have a more than a great. Good afternoon. This is more of a great proposal. Councilor Braiden's office. Councilor Layto wrote on a reference support of this project. The fire just roll a name on the also right to see to preserve and improve this property, which will allow them to continue to house, you know, create a. The lower income residents. Good afternoon. I'm Chair members of the board. We like to go on wreck it in support. You? I'm chair there and I'll just show you the comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Most new approve. There's second. Yes, sir. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Barrazo. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 180, 72, 44, or the address of 15 Chester Street. If the applicant and other representatives are present, would they please explain to the board? Good morning, Madam Chair. The board, Attorney Sean Regan, with the business address of 125 High Street, fourth floor Boston, on behalf of the applicant 15 Chester, LLC. We are before you today just seeking to legalize existing living space in the basement, consisting of two bedrooms with no new proposed. The basement living space was constructed approximately 15 to 20 years ago, and was not properly legalized at that time. In 2017, ISD in the Fire Department discovered the non-conforming space and issued a violation that the Fire-Long and unpermanated bedrooms needed to be legalized. The fire safety work was completed at that time, including Fire-Long and the fire-dressable windows. Unfortunately, that builder also passed away prior to finalizing the permit with ISD and BFD. This year, ISD contacted the owners after an internal audit and realized that the permits were never properly closed out. So we have submitted this proposal to legalize that space, which has triggered extension of non-conforming use and a violation of floor area ratio. Key points for the board, all life safety measures are in place, including conforming Fire-Long and egressable windows with window wells, and there is no building code relief being sought. And with that, I'll pause. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, so you can also have the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant attended an abutters meeting hosted by our office on February 10th, at which no comments were made. The applicant has also met with the All-Spin Civic Association. With that background, our Office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have additional comments. Thank you. That man motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with the proviso that the project doesn't undergo any building code relief approval with the proviso of no building code relief. Thank you. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Betar-Raza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Let's take a 15-minute break. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. President. Mr. Langen. President. Ms. Wielow. President. Mr. Collins. President. Ms. Betar-Raza. President. All right. The floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will go to the red discussion here in the cases, can you vote, Madame ears, and Mrs. Liu? We will ask again if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this time. are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this timeframe? And hearing none, we will go to case BOA 1776341 with the address of 19 White Wall Street. If the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain the case to the board? Thank you Madam Chair and members of the Board for no more words. None, Elizabeth. Street with the applicant, Marco de Barras. Marco resides at 19 Badwell Street. It's a two family building. And I believe the board has heard the particulars previously. I'll just reiterate briefly that a deck on an existing the rush and a awning on the side of the house. Described here as a covered side entrance. We're dealt with without permits during the COVID pandemic. You can see that the lot is relatively small with very little usable open space. The garage did have a flat roof and the opportunity for exterior enjoyment was irresistible. But there are several code violations of the zoning code as a result. And my understanding that there have been minor concerns by one of the butter. But that otherwise the butters are in support of this application. You can see from the floor plans. The relationship to an existing exterior egress from the second floor unit. It also provides access to the roof deck. And the covering the awning I guess it's described that in this case, as well as single roof. Also integrates two exits from the existing residents. In a covered area, which was built for the applicant's mother during the COVID pandemic to allow her some exterior enjoyment. So maybe there's been confusion about the garage has been existing for some time. So framing plans for submitted mine standing as the ISD will review building code issues. Secondly, if there are answers are granted from the zoning code. Are there questions from the board? May I have public testimony? I'm not sure if somebody from Oren is. This is it can. Sorry, I wasn't sure if my calling would be jumping on, but I can fill in here. So we conducted a butters meeting on October 21st of 2025. There's very lightly attended no questions, but raised. We didn't receive a letter and opposition from the resident expressing concerns related to the setback. And how the deck was installed on the property, you know, without permits and just the safety aspects of that deck being installed without railings, etc. It sounds like that sense been addressed to railings, but the resident remains in opposition. They were connected to the up and square civic association. I don't have a result from that up and square west side. Excuse me, but with that information, I'm afraid of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next we have an Estesia. Councilor Morales office, we cannot hear you. Any other raised fans? Yes, I think without me. Just me. You need yourself now. And me. What's happening, but met or met? I'm not sure if you want to speak. I'm sorry, it's for the next case. I was just asking to be added. Okay. Without Madame Chair, we don't have additional comments. Okay, Mr. Hampton, I'm not sure we saw a recommendation. We will wait. Yes, thank you, Madame Chair, Mrs. Boyd, Jeff Hampton, City of Boston Planning Department. My apologies for not having it included in the package that was sent over to you. This was originally supposed to be heard on March 24th. And I don't believe that the appellant had shown up, so there was no deferral date given to us. So it just appeared on the agenda. But back with that hearing, we recommended a approval of this case. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to favor a welcome. Is there a second? Again. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lorenzia. Yes. Mr. Lungham. Yes. Ms. Wheelerwell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Bedbrassa. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. You are on me, Mr. Stembridge. Well, sorry about that, Madam Chair. We have case. Now we have case B-O-A 164-295 with the address of 33R Princesson Street. If the applicants and their and their representable president will they please explain. Yes, members of the board. I'm Madam Chair. My name is Joseph Luna. I am the principal of Luna Design Group Architects. I represent the branch of the project holder. On 433, we are Princeton Street. We have asked the continuance from the last meeting to do a little more investigation about the criminality. And kind of the best of my knowledge and ability. This is how I believe what happened. In July of 1992, a permit was granted through the rear garage. You can see the lower left hand corner of the site plan on your screen. To do some roof replacement and replacement of part of the exterior walls. At the time, the inspector was John Wallscher who was now since retired. Sometime after that permit was granted. And I should also note that the applicant was the homeowner Richard Verracci. Happy to those permit was to move to the board two days ago to be included in this presentation. At some point that permit was amended or at least we believe it was amended but there was nothing ever recorded on that. Subsequently during this time Mr. Verracci could speak more about this in the comment phase was going through some personal difficulties with Molotov's life. There is nothing on file showing the amendment of the permit. And in 1999, the permit was actually just abandoned in on 4 April 1999. There was no records of anything in the file as far as file sign offs etc. And on around the time in 1993, the apartment that was built over this was occupied. The current tenant is Metta Kruttsman who actually just came on earlier. We spent in the apartment for 14 and a half years and pays below and market where it went. We have reviewed and expected the unit and the term of the dollars and code violations that would need to be updated which is there was no second egress and then we proposed egress there. We put in the egress door and we said why we took the brief and we needed code compliance, smoke and sea of the sector as part of the ward. I cannot take part in any other work that was not exposed at the time but the apartment was clean and did not pose in our opinion any potential life safety orders. We are seeking a number of zone reliefs on this but we would request that the board grant relief since it has been an occupied apartment for this and not a time. The current tenant that's going to be here again in the last 14 and a half years and on the provides that the proposed improvements for egress will detect your surviving the door being included. Questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Luna, I was looking at the presentation and the documents that you submitted in there are no elevations. So it's really hard to see what is existing right there because I understand that this is an existing addition on top of the garage. So fortunately there is not really much to see at this moment. Now I wanted to ask actually the planning department Mr. Hampton if you can come for a second I see that the recommendation from the planning department is for denial and my question is what would be the problem for this case if there is a denial destruction is already there so what is what they have to have to do after the zone getting? That I can't answer that's a legal question. I mean I'm just I can speak to our recommendation and why I mean there are no records that shows that any work was done we don't know any legal record of when this was a dwelling unit I mean we can take the appellants word for it but our recommendation is based on what we don't have and we don't have any records of this being done legally nor do we have any record of it being dwelling unit for as long as they say they have what happens after the fact I don't know I don't know what happens. Yeah thank you I wasn't thinking about that how are they going to win the limbo like with a meeting that is over there with no approval but also no recommendation for demolition or getting new permits I'm not sure if anybody from ISD can provide feedback but that is a lot this moment my I'm sure. Thank you Mr. Stembridge you are mute if you have a comment no question. Sorry it's Caroline for card legal agreement ISD so he would have to restore it back to the original condition when it was not a dwelling. So they would have to remove they only need to just keep the garage if that was existing. Correct. Thank you. Other questions from the board? I'm trying to understand the existing unit find so so basically the existing garage is no longer a garage it's out. There's a garage there's a garage you can see on the first floor it's a EX1 there isn't a existing garage. Okay so the studio is the unit 5 is built on top of it is on top of it and and then I see another another so there's an existing first floor with proposed studio apartment plan and I guess there's only one studio apartment. Yes and the proposed if you look at the proposed studio plan. Oh you're adding the egress. We're adding the egress. I got it. The existing does not have the stair. The building is not sprinkled with it still requires to mean to egress so we're adding the proposed stair the sliding doors and unacceptable means that egress on that and we're adding the new egress doors apartment. Yeah so then what's happening is in your site plan you're not showing that egress there on your first understanding. That is an existing condition site plan. Right so you don't have a proposed site plan. Not yet moving to the middle part of the building permit. Yeah so I think when we're looking at zoning it's kind of important for us to understand how far off is that proposed second means that egress from the side yard right because we're looking at side yard setbacks we're setbacks and so I'm almost commenting along the lines of Giovanni where you're presenting to us something that is completely not cohesive and it's kind of representation for us to even judge on any merit of the project. So you know we're trying to help you but you're not allowing us to read the whole project as a whole so that would be my it would not be difficult for us to submit a site plan with the proposed stair on it. We did not do the exterior elevations because we weren't doing any alteration of the building volume or structure. Right but again if we're looking at massing from a zoning perspective and character of the neighborhood you're again not really fully drawing out the conditions so that that's just my compliment. Thank you. Yeah I'd also add if this project were before us without the work having been done those are the types of things we would want to see is the complete plan as well as elevations of how the project would look. Or before and after photos like this is what the photo this is what the building looks like and in this case the before and after will be identical. Correct but we're not even seeing that and I'm looking at Google Earth and I can't even get to the rear because of all the beautiful trees there. Now this criminal reacts to a lengthy. Oops yeah okay thank you no further comments. Okay yeah may I have public testimony. Oh my dear members of the board my name is David Jones representing the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Regarding 33 Princeton Street our office differs from the board's judgment the community process was conducted including two of butter's meetings held on 102324 and 62325 intended by several east-bossed community members. The feedback from this meeting was significant opposition regarding the proposal especially from one of the direct of butter's to the property whose family has been significantly impacted by the ongoing issues of this property including the building of unparameded apartments and complaints of renters moving in and out of these properties regularly which the of butter's and family members have made several free one-on-one complaints. There were also about three community members in the meeting expressing support for the applicant. Additionally we received one petition and opposition signed by 51 community members expressing opposition to the proposal submitted to the board. The Eagle Health Civic Association has chosen not to vote or review this proposal. At this time the mayor's office and neighborhood services differs his board's judgment on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consider your attention. Next we have a step on from Consular Coleta's office. Hi Madam Chair members of the board my name is Stefan from Councillor Colledis of Autos office. At this time we would like to oppose this proposal. Thank you Eva for all of the the reasoning there we echo all of that that was said there. Thank you so much. Next we have Mith. Hi there everyone. My name is Mitha Kroitsman. I live at 33 Princeton St. East Boston. I am indeed the tenant in the Applied Studio Department in this case. I would like to be recorded in support of granting this area an application. I have lived here since September 2011 almost 15 years and this is a place I've lived the longest ever. It was then when I was looking and it still is very difficult to find affordable living places space in Boston and especially suitable for a one person household. My home is in the back. It's away from the street. It offers a lot of light a lot of air, peace, privacy and big green trees. The neighbours in the main house and up in the street they're super nice and I know many of them very well we help each other out and no one has ever complained to me about me living in the studio about to garage all these years. It's a great place to live and I'm also very much committed to East Boston living. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Trick, can I have a follow-up question? So for the record you're stating that you've been living in Unit 5, the studio apartment for over 15 years. Almost 15 years. This is 15 years. Okay and it's just now that it's got sighted. Okay thank you. Thank you. We have no comments of the movie. I have a quick comment. Can you state your name and address for the record? Absolutely. My name is Mr. Locky out on Neil Locky out on where did you direct a bottle who lives at 31 Princeton Street at Filming Home since 1923? My family I oppose the request for a very sensitive 33 Princeton Street East Boston. But before I begin, part one very is granted for legal basement unit by ZB Broad is under appeal by our subsidiary of court. You should have a copy of that in the ZB8 folder. Being heard today is part two of a legal garage. The superior court complaint stated argument will also apply to legal garage. Filming Princeton Street East Boston is an investment property in the only resides out of state. Princeton Street is a very dense neighborhood with most properties only three to seven feet away from each other and most have walking gates to prevent entry to real properties. Parking is horrendous. In clones in your folder you will see 55 Natives not position of garage conversion. Copy of original variants. What no-unvoined clause is exhibit with superior court filing. Copy of superior court appeal filing for legal basement variants granted by ZB8 when exhibits dated February 9th, 2026. Four three word documents explaining why any granting and zoning and variance relief doesn't mean any of the criteria necessary for such. Certified letters and emails with photos sent to city attorneys requesting removal in 2023. The applicant seeks to legalize an unauthorized garage to dwelling conversion. That was the subject of criminal complaints filed by the city of Boston. No such addresses 33 are as on the same one as house. Nothing unusual about the property as the same as other properties in the area. Long and rectangular shape. There is no hardship related to the land. We filed a complaint with the inspection of service and requests removal of both illegal units basement in garage back in 2023. Property criteria doesn't mean any zoning are variance relief as illegal units were created illegally in violation of variants in now-unvoined clause in South Priyaded. Seed court filing is ZB8 folder. The legal units have created severe overcrowding of the land with no-sisters. These illegal units also allow a direct view into bedrock. Seed letters in the folder in superior court filing. Now this is a very important plan submitted by architect to ZB8 missing what we should violate conversion with on uncertified plot plan bypassing by department review rejection letter zoning and state laws for minimum with. By department rejection violations missing from BIS denotes. Probably won't pass by department minimum access and egress requirements for illegal units located at rear of dwelling east Boston mass. There is also no access to sites or rear of garage in mid-feet away from our back porch. This is a fire safety issue for us in the neighborhood along with tenants of the illegal units buildings. The decision by ZB8 members previous decision to make legal and a legal basement apartment unit showed a complete disregard of our property rights and how it affects our enjoyment of our family home. Seed letters in the ZB8 folder. We request that this appeal be denied when printed as thank you for members and share for your time. Thank you. My name is Cher. There is one more person. No sure if. Thank you. Okay. Grisha Berrochi. Grisha Berrochi, you can make yourself? Yes, can you name me? Can I speak? Yeah. This is the need 33 questions. I'm sorry. Are you the applicant? Big owner. Yes, the applicant owner. Okay, so are there any other public testimony before you weigh in? Any other raised hands, Hesus? No, I'm not sure. I use their letters submitted. We submitted yesterday from a letter support from Claudia Fagata and Helena Fagata. I want to make sure that is included in the public record and the public testimony supporting the project. Okay, so can you briefly address the concerns that we heard in public testimony before we continue? Either Mr. Luna or the owner since you're both, I mean, he's the applicant. Yeah, I look for that to the owner to elaborate more on what I've already presented. Go ahead, Richard. Yeah, can you name me? Yes. Yeah, back 1992, there was permanent polls, the work was done, there was an addendum, John Wallace was the inspector back then and it was all inspected. I don't know. I had some difficulties in my life, I lost my wife the cancer and left my one-year-old beautiful daughter, which ended up moving and changing my life a little bit to take care of her. I couldn't find, there was plans submitted, there was, there was the, at all, I went to the archive and they dug up some of it and they said there was some things that are missing and it's not unusual to happen, I guess, the paper telling me. I followed directions of the building inspector and to try to legalize this after 34 years. I'm here today to remedy this and hope that these emulators will grant the variance to legalize this. The thing with the the neighbor has been going on and he's got opposition against me from my own driveway that I've owned since 1984. So again, I just hope to remedy this as soon as possible. The author, there was plans submitted showing the staircase to the zoning and the building department showing the new proposed staircase that comes down. There is two doors that go into that unit and they open out, there's not a sliding door as they open out. The building inspector recommended another door and separate, separate, separate stairs coming down to bring it up to code and I agree and agree to any inspection oath. Can I ask ISD to weigh back in because you're saying you hold permits and you know ISD needs to tell us if that is accurate or not. I don't know. Caroline can say that or if someone, Madam Chair, there are no permanent records of a complete permanent application for this unit that he's proposing today. So I'm not going to ask. Thank you. So I think it would be helpful if the board members can deliberate at this time. Are there questions, additional questions for the applicant? Any other questions? I just want to make a quick note before you make a decision. The original variance as a no-unvoiced which did not allow any additional units and that was the judgment of the appeals board when that was granted to him to go from one to a three because thank you. All right, okay. Thank you. All right. I have a question I'd like to put out. How are the utilities sort of administered here and you know are there meters? Does this unit have its own meter? How is that handled? The four units in the main building have individual meters. It's my understanding that the carriage house unit is running off the house meter. So there's no separate meter for this? There's no there's no separate meter running off the house meter. How does the building mean tax? Richard, in the building? What is being taxed as how many family unit? Richard, you still want? It's an hour for. Can you hand me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. You're on your case. I'm sorry. I think my question was sort of leading to that. If there were evidence of a separate unit such as its own meter, then I think the assessor's department would have seen that and had it on in their records as a five unit even though that's not the zoning permits. So I think. Thank you. Yeah, I want to say that I don't see any new impacts because this is an existing structure. The same time I believe that the proponent is claiming that they have some permits or some more documents that could be relevant. I think they have to go and figure it out what documents they have and maybe work with ISD finding those documentation also providing to the board some elevations and pictures so we can see the reality of that structure. I'm not sure if the NIL without prejudice can help them have the time they need to go and find this one. I can see. So we're deliberating now. So I think that's. Yeah. I just expect that in terms of addressing we've scoured the electronic record to our reveal. Thank you. Thank you. Are there so can can everybody where the board is discussing it now? There's no more public testimony though. Giovanni has expressed some concerns that are that's a if there's other comments or if someone's ready for a motion. Mr. Stembridge is that do you want to say that? That's that that's that's made a matter just because what we're discussing is or I believe for the garage unit there's nothing else on the table before us. So it's in regard so as was mentioned earlier if we can see the if we can see complaint the plan so we can see a vote before and after and if that meets all the requirements in terms of regulation was then that's what we're discussing here. Nothing else I believe. Okay. So I think so I think so I think that's what we need to focus on. It because it was because it's seen as a four unit it appears that we allow for the basement units so now it's an R4. Does that necessarily as a multi-family or does it fall into was it cited as a as as no change of as the occupancy is still the same as a multi-family? Can Caroline can you can you clarify or is it a or is it a four family plus ADU? I don't think you have zoning for a four family either either is a multi-family or you know three family but I don't think there's a four family. So is the zoning currently as a multi-family right now as an occupancy? I believe it's zone just as a three family this he was also before the board and think about a month ago to make his basement unit legal so to go to a four family. So it changed into a three family to a multi-family. Correct and it's currently under appeal that decision is done. I'm not sure if it would be if it would be a four multi. Yeah. But that's not what's in front of us now. Yeah. But it helps clarify because because we don't know and if we were to um yes because it's a zoning issue like you know if it's if it's already classified as a multi-family he's but that's separate that's separate though from this. No so Caroline I was saying that it was three family but it's been appealed when we when we moved forward with allowing the basement use. So I just want to clarify in terms of what is the zoning currently in front of us for this dwelling unit above the garage. That's what we're here to discuss today. When I think what meeting is better brought us getting at is well there's a pending court case. Is it a four or a three right now if that decision to go to four is being appealed so I understand Miss Bedouburel's is sort of line of thinking. So I mean he has been given the seal yet. Got it so it's still a three family. I believe so. Okay so if it's still a three family potentially with the addition of the dwelling are they going for three family plus eighty you because you can do parish conversion or is it going to three family to a multi-family. Three family to multi-family. Okay thank you that's all I wanted clarity and that because those of the zoning issues as well in front of us. Okay is there further discussion from the board? I think my only comment when we were asked to sort of legalize pre-existing uses it would certainly help if there were more sort of research or legal justification submitted by the applicant. I know you can do that via voting records. Anything to sort of prove your case you know instead of coming with sort of incomplete plans when we need more information I know outside of Boston attorneys often have to prove a status of non-conformities since it's protected over 10 years that doesn't apply here under chapter 40 but a state law but it's certainly comparable and it would help the board I think if the attorney were able to do a little bit more research to sort of prove how long this has been and how long the resident has been there instead of just the testimony. And Madam Chair for ISD just to provide just an insight this originally came before you because it was a building colored violation that has gone through the court system so we've tried the ISD legal counsel has tried to work with them for past two years and so this is why he's now a busy VA to get really this. Thank you. Is someone ready to make a motion? Madam Chair I'm going to propose this to my colleagues that we make a motion of denial without prejudice so the proponent has more time to go and figure it out what or commentations they can find even with ISD or any other agency and also to create over documentation for the board to consider the proposal like pickshorts, elevations etc and when they already come back to the board for consideration again. Is there a second? Back in. That's second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Ligon. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collin. Yes. Ms. Beter-Brazile. I'm going to say no. I don't think any other way you want to spin it in regards to a change of plan proposal but being almost the same outcome as a habitable unit about the dwelling is going to make any different. I would say that with a push for the city to increase housing stock the conversion of the basement to an apartment unit is along those goals in regards to increasing housing but in this case I think it has shown that the new proposition is creating an impact into the abutters and so this is why I would say no. Okay. Yes. Motion carries. I'm on charge to clarification on this since it's being denied without prejudice. Can you please deal with staff after this meeting? Yes. Just just real quick question. This would then mean we'd have to reapply those little community process all over again. So can you talk with ISD staff after this meeting? Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1703445. The address of 100 housing can add. Yes. The applicant and their representative are present. Will their police compliance of the board? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge, thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscato with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. On behalf of the applicant new tradition and with me I have Yano Amara who's a representative of that company of the proposal you're looking at in front of you in the diagram in front is to affect two separate advertisement decal window scapes. One on the north side and the south side at 100 Huntington Ave and this is the pedestrian footbridge that connects the Coffley Mall to the Prudential Center and the footbridge and Coffley Mall are owned and managed by Simon Property Group. That's a privately owned bridge. What you're looking at is a rendering of what the advertisement would actually look at. We've got more pictures and more site pictures. Just to point out this would encompass seven of the glass panels of a very large bridge which would be less than 30% of the total window scape. The ads themselves would be translucent so light can pass through. You could see through the other side if you were walking through the footbridge. This is a decal so there is no structure. There is no illumination. This is not a billboard. There is no electronic state to this. It is simply a decal that can be taken off from the inside of the actual bridge and be replaced. The idea is in the agonomic study by the city of Boston. The back bay was hit one of the hardest areas because of its business community during the pandemic and it has slowly been trying to build a business backup over the last six years. The idea for these ads is to bring foot traffic or continue to bring foot traffic back to the business community within this area. We do have letters of support from businesses and you'll also hear from the Back Bay Association, Meg Cohen, who is here in a little while to speak. We did get the support of that civic association. We also had a study. If we go to the next slide please, Mr. Ambassador, this just shows you an aerial view so you can see the scheme of the bridge. If you could go to the next slide please. This just shows you different angles of the bridge and the size and scope. There's a lot of traffic lights as you drive in to stop. This isn't like one quick stretch that folks can drive right through. There are stop and go areas with the traffic lights. We also had a study done by ANC. ANC is a leader in digital and static signage and technology. They reviewed this particular location where it would be a fix to ensure that there would be no glaring caused by the signage of how it would hit the light because that did come up at the community during the community process. If we could go to the next slide please. This just shows you this is one this would be one of many different billboards advertisement on site ads in and around the area. You can just see if we go a little bit lower. Thank you. It just shows all of the on ad on structures, media billboards, street ads on around this area so this would not be. These signs would not be unique. The other point is that the copy mall itself does not have any signs which many businesses do a fix to the exterior of its mall. So this would allow for for on-site business advertisement which many of the other surrounding businesses had. If you go to the next slide please. This just shows some of the within a hundred to 300 feet all just many of the different signs in and around the area of 100 Huntington Ave. The other point to note is we also in speaking with the community offered as mitigation inside the mall there are kiosks that have advertisement as part of the community give back we're offering two weeks a month to run ads inside the mall for non-profit organizations within the area as well. If we go to the next slide please. And again this just shows more of the street scapes signs right in and around this immediate area. Next slide please. These are just the dimensions so as I mentioned this would only be seven panels out of the total bridge on either side. The top portion of the glass and the top of the bridge would remain open and all of the other panels would remain open as well. If we go to the next slide please. One more thanks. And one more. These are just examples in other areas where this type of decals sign is prevalent. This is actually in New York City where this company has other decals affixed just to have an idea of what they actually look like in real time. Next slide please. And this just goes to show so if you were on the footbridge many months throughout the year there's already advertisement on the inside but it's only visible to folks walking through the bridge. Point being is that the back of that sign is still covering that window skate so we would actually be going on the other side so if the interior signage was present just these decals would go in the back of those interior signs. So if you were driving most times the month you would see the back of those signs now this would just affixed on the front part of that as well. Next slide please. And this is just more to show what those interior signs look like now. With that I can pause and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Just confirming it would be on both sides of the glass or just the one side. So it would be on both sides of the glass which is exactly where those interior ads now madam share one. Questions from the board. You mentioned that the advertisement was to help bring people into their businesses. Is there a fee to advertising their product or is a landlord just doing that to help their business? No so there would be a fee these are paid for ads they could be rented by any business however you know there's a strong enthusiasm from the businesses within the mall to put their ads up on there. Okay and you're and there's a company that's going to be curating and seeing whether things are appropriate. Correct so we also agree to have no alcohol products tobacco was already prohibited but we were asked to bring that and we agreed to that as well. And these are and these signs are for companies in on the property in the mall. It wouldn't be mandated but given the proximity of that many businesses that that is where the majority of the interest is coming from. But anybody could approach you in a position like correct. And in that case what would be the process to accept or deny? So the yeah so it's new tradition is an advertisement company so that would all run through them and so they would you know given just to see what the tanner is or you know what businesses actually apply for but then it's up to them and those signs can change so they can change monthly and anytime they can change by weekly so with these unlike a billboard that takes a lot more activity to take down and move these are simply decals removed from the interior of the building. There's no illumination there's no electricity and at night you this would not be advertised at night except by any natural light someone could see from area buildings are lighting. Byron thank you Mr. Merchand. And I might have not been clear is it covering the whole length so the dimensions so we wouldn't cover the top part madam chair the top room into roof but the seven plates would be covered so the dimensions are actually 60 feet wide by eight feet high for the total area and ends up being about 55 feet when you add it all in but we're looking at what what is being this radio so it's not correct. The entirety it's like two thirds maybe. Oh the bridge itself you're saying. Yes yes the bridge is a lot longer. This is only yeah right under two thirds of the of the total pans and only in that center area so all of the peripheral area all of the glass housing all of the roofscape would all remain untouched. Other questions from the board? Yes I may have missed that but where did you require at any moment to provide like a traffic analysis or an impact analysis to ensure that drivers don't get distracted and jeopardize various trends. So we were asked to have a transportation site there's actually a Mr. Valencia, a number of traffic lights as you drive through here so there's not like an open roadway in this particular area. We also had ANC that I had mentioned do a glare and sun study to make sure if you were driving there wouldn't be no glare off these signs at all and right now if you were to look up you would see the back of signage on the bridge when the ads and the inside are up so it's not like right now most of the time these are open glass panels those are already a back to those interior apps but to answer your question we did a higher ANC tunic glare study from from lighting at different angles. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah I mean I think it seems appropriate to put forward a potentially sunset clause on this because you know we can't really not necessarily zone can't necessarily regulate the content but we can see how successful it is and at least have a timing on it you know it's no different than when parking lots are being leased and they're being forward in terms of the use with the sunset clause so I'm just discussing this now with my colleague it is it is like a one instant where you know the the ideas of signage being in front of retail doesn't necessarily apply here but the condition so so unique that is not necessarily a large billboard either so one way to ensure that it's not impactful to the neighborhood it seems appropriate to do a sunset clause here just commenting. Okay let's have public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board a corner new and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services this time the Mayor's Office of gone record in opposition to this proposal some background information the community process on our social and about as being on April 9th at which there was a discussion regarding the impact proposal on the public realm perspective of those on the street level and those on it using the bridge we understand that the back-based association was supportive of this proposal signing the positive attention might bring to businesses in the area the neighborhood association of back bay however was opposed to the president it could set in regards to other types of outdoor advertising in that area as well as the belief that there's no community need or benefit for this type of advertising our office back those these concerns raised by now and have stayed before the Mayor's Office like to go and record in opposition to the application for the selling relief but that thank you so much thank you next week I'll see me from consular flames office thank you Madam Chair members of the board this is Cindy from Councillor Flynn's office please note Councillor Flynn would like to go on record in opposition and sent a letter to the board yesterday his opposition stems from shared concerns from neighbors in the neighborhood association of back bay regarding our existing pedestrian safety crisis and serious concerns on the potential destructive driving pedestrian road safety is a significant challenge across the city of Boston but particularly in this area which has been exacerbated since 2022 due to the city encouraging the use of moped by third party delivery companies again Councillor Flynn shares the serious concerns and legitimate concerns from the community and the neighborhood association of back bay with this advertisement made cause destructive driving and further add to existing traffic and pedestrian safety issues in the area thank you thank you next we have a correct Armstrong I am Conrad Armstrong from 439 Marble Street speaking as a vice chair of the neighborhood association of back bay this we're we've heard from this application twice now strongly opposed this intersection is very wide very complicated and very busy and these large advertisements could be a detriment to public safety of pedestrians bicyclists and motors secondly this really could set up presents there are actually three other existing pedestrian sky bridges just in back bay and there certainly could be more in the future in the business district and if this is past the owners of those sky bridges are immediately going to want to apply for the same thing to earn more advertising where the interview would really change the nature of back bay from interesting at the out again put a picture of our intersection New York City that the picture was very busy and ugly and we don't want this intersection to a part of back bay if you'd look like time square thank you thank you and chair there are no additional comments so I know that I'm sorry make call on us here sorry it's more of a see if she was able to she has her hand up this is my dear co-owner and I did ask to speak if that's okay yes please proceed the back bay association is in support of this application we met with Simon quite a few times just as they did we encouraged and we're happy to see Simon property and some advertising in for community groups within the within the center and a lot of how we've looked at advertising is that advertising is a part of life and we have JC Deco benefiting the city and we have the MBTA with a lot of advertising and MBTA busting is a wrap sorry that was a knitting needle falling they are wrapped with with advertising and so we think that this would be a benefit for people to see the tenants that are in in copley place and what's available there so that's why we are in support of it thank you for your consideration thank you any other race fans my name chair there are no additional hits right set them on madam chair to respond sure thank you quickly I just want to point out that if this was to be approved by the board and any capacity we would a sunset provision as it was hinted or talked about potentially is something that we would be more than willing to agree to if it was put on because we're confident that this would not cause any traffic disruption in the area and would like to show the board that after a period of time secondly this would also have to go before bpd because of the signage for regulation and then ultimately you would still have to go to the outdoor advertising board to go over things like content and the size of the signs as well so this will have a lot of regulation over it thank you any other questions from the board you commented that there is no illumination correct it just want to make sure that's on a record there's no what illumination signage illumination it's all the cows okay no structure no illumination of any kind no illumination thank you okay any other questions I have a motion I like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that we put a two-year sunset clause I and and and a second proviso that states no signage illumination I think that um that would ease the fear of it being time square because there's no you know a lot of lighting but I do think that it's a benefit potentially for the for the businesses that are in the area and you know it's it's just decal so I think we post-COVID I think we have to be creative um and and provide opportunities for for um for their urban environment um that's it thank you is there a second second there Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Valencia I'm going to vote no in hidden my reasons I am concerned about the negative impacts of this proposal it's something we have visual visual pollution and destruction for drivers also for me the main idea of having a a glal bridge is that people can see each other and they can see and enjoy the city this proposal will transform a glass bridge into a tunnel and for that reason I vote no Mr. Lennon oh yes as we well I'm also going to vote no I think sort of on the same track is Mr. Valencia the positive urban design elements of the sky bridge outweigh sort of the need to advertise and I agree that I think one of the positives of the sky bridge is the activation of it with people walking back and forth Mr. Collins yes it's better brazo yes the chair votes no the motion does not carry is there another motion yes I would like to put forward a motion of the night is there a second I will second for the reasons I stated around the urban design components of the application Mr. Stembridge no Mr. Valencia yes for the result that I expressed before Mr. Lennon yes yes Mr. Collins yes Mr. Berraza yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you all right thank you thank you to everyone have a good rest of your day