 you you Thank you. Good morning. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for July 29. 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting while the new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. The hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom, webinar event platform and it's also being live street. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted out unless it is immediately unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. The panelists are shown when encouraged to keep getting off of presenting to board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chairman limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints for that reason. The board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project and the videos who have closed into the project. If you wish to comment on it, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and zoom in on our platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive requests to unmute yourself. So yes, and you should be able to tell. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and roll with your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting most will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Ms. Betapraso. Good morning, Madam Chair. President. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Pinato. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. So, with that, a couple of reminders for today. We're a six-member of the warrant. We also have a very full agenda. So, I will ask the folks to be mindful of that and to be efficient with your presentations. With that, I'll turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will begin with the approval of the hearing men. Let's go to the 930. as are from June 12th, June 24th, and July 8th, with that omega motion to approve. The second? Second, Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Ms. Bethe-Brazile. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Penaudov. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next, we have the extension, the schedule for 9.30 AM. It was a long list. I'll read them all at the same time. One behind the other, and then we'll ask for a motion. It is recommended that they view. We begin with case B.O.A. 136. 6165, with the address of one object voice. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1153496. With the address of 59 kilowatt street. Then we have case B.O.A. 142, 3032, with the address of 48 L.H. street. Case B.O.A. 139, 595, 105, with the address of 4 H. street. Case B.O.A. 143, 2592, with the address of 75 kilowatt street. Case B.O.A. 104, 6127, with the address of 201, 241, Stuart street. Case B.O.A. 136, 1351, with the address of 1617, Trumont street. Case B.O.A. 131, 805, 0, with the address of 90 brain tree street. Case B.O.A. 166, 484, with the address of 64 to 64 C, outpill street. Case B.O.A. 166, 486, with the address of 66, the 66 C, outpill street. Case B.O.A. 166, 487, with the address of 68 to 68 B, outpill street. Case B.O.A. 166, 488, with the address of 70 to 70 B, outpill street. Case B.O.A. 166, 489, with the address of 72 to 72 B, outpill street. Case B.O.A. 852, 415, the address of 72 to 72 B, overland street. Case B.O.A. 852, 419, with the address of 74, 74 B, overland street. And finally, case B.O.A. 146, 6225, with the address of 95 effort street. Those are the extensions of this blonde madam chair. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Any questions on the extensions? May I have a motion to grant the extensions as you have requested? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Berraza. Yes. Miss Turno. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Miss Finotto. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Next, we have two final law follow-up final opportunities scheduled for 9, 30 a.m. Next, we have two final, final, operational cases scheduled for 9.30 a.m. First is case of B.O.A. One, two, eight, seven, zero, three, six, with the address of 17, 59 to 17, 63, Washington Street. And actually, I believe there may be a good time to go ahead. Yes. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 965, 196, with the address of 17 to 67, Washington Street. If the applicant's board is turning the parking cases, President, please explain case of the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCasse. LeCasse last 75, Harlington Street in Boston. Indeed, these are companion cases involving the historic Alexandra Hotel, Corner Mass Ab, and Washington Street. The project proponent are the Alexandria Partners, which consists of Tom Callis and Jatsbogel and our project manager, Paul Alhance. The architect of record for the current iteration is M. Bark. This project has been approved by the BPD Board of Directors, three separatications since 2019, and as it has been approved by this board on three separatations over the years as the projects iteration has changed. Most recently, the BPD Board of Directors approved on May 15 of 2025. The current change that is before you today, and that is the image shown on the lower left hand corner. Under a small project review, under Article 80, the current iteration is now a 68-room hotel, as previously approved, but importantly, and the change that you see without the eight-story tower addition about the historic existing building of the Alexander Hotel. For a variety of reasons related to cost of the historic restoration, the cost of the eight-story tower that has been eliminated and the project is as shown here, a much smaller version with a complete historic restoration of the existing building and the addition as shown on the adjacent currently vacant parcel. All zoning relief required has been previously approved, granted, and remains in full force in effect. The removal of the eight-story addition eliminates the need for the previously approved height variances for feet and stories, and no additional relief is needed or created by this change. Also, importantly, on May 6 of 2025, the South End Landmarks District Commission approved this design change, and SELDC has been instrumental in guiding this project to its approved state by all the other agencies, including this board. So, thus today, we seek, board found, our approval of the design change, eliminating the eight-story tower addition, and all other aspects of the previous approvals remain unchanged and in effect. With that, I'll pause for any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes. Hearing none, is there a motion? Motion approval. I can do a second. I can. Mr. Stappridge. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Arna. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Arna. Yes. The Airways S. Motion Carings. Good luck. Let's see it moving forward. Thank you kindly. Next, we move on to the recommendation to go to for 9.30 AM. These are from the cases before the double drop for the subcommittee on July 24th. We're getting the case to be away. 1 6 7 4 5 6 1. The address 18 to 20. Excuse me. 18 to 20. Question way. We wrote this. Well, this is. The project was approved with three providers. That of course, go along and pause the property fee. We move that. Second that we step to step back of 5 feet. We put it place. And third, that the BPD that the BP design of the trunnel of the trunnel staircase. Be provided with access to the patch of the house. They have also. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1 7 2 8 5 2 4. With the address of 3 9, Maverick Street. This was approved. Case B.O.A. 1 7 1 5 5 9 0. With the address of 30, perfect street was approved. Case B.O.A. 1 7 2 9 3 3 9. With the address of 78, 80, 80, sale street was approved. Case B.O.A. It B.O.A. 1 7 0 9 0 5 2. With the address of 32, St. Stephen Street was deferred until today. Case B.O.A. 1 6 9 7 4 9 6. The address of 12 R union Avenue was deferred until today. Case B.O.A. 1 6 8 6 7 0. With the address of 294, West Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 1 7 0 0 0 in tune with the address of 34 Brady Street was approved. Case B.O.A. 1 7 0 3 6 3 5 The address of 9 Carter Road was approved. And 5 Case B.O.A. 1 6 9 9 3 2 8 With the address of 11 Drill Street was approved. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Maverick Motion. A motion to approve the subcommittee recommendations? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betemaraza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. No, but just motion carries. That will move onto the hearing schedule for 9 30 AM. And we'll also have, we'll remind folks that we are a six member boy today. And also, and we will ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from 9 30 here. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge, would you please read the committee's complaints with the request for the forals on three matters? And which of those of treasurer? 390, 435, are in our companion case? They were recorded. So that would be for the last two cases. Hey, the BOA 167, 155, 8 with the address of 390 per trillionth degree. And long enough that we have, it's BOA 167, 156, 1 with the address of 355 border street. Would you please go ahead and explain the general one? Yes, thank you. I put my record out. Richard Lins, Madam Chairwoman of the Board, Business Adder to 2.5 summer street needs Boston. I mean, I have the petitioner requesting administrative deferral to a further date to hopefully the 7-member boy. Okay, Caroline, and he dates the end of the next 7-member boy would be Tuesday, September 9th. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion to defer. Motion to defer. We... We're going to defer. Go ahead, Mr. Turner. But we... We're going to defer this case. And for September 9th. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Beto-Brazzo. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Prado. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. There are many on Mr. Stambridge's in that condor on a 9-30 list. So that would be... So that would be 4-case B-O-A. 1-7-2-9-4-5-9. With the address of 8-9-conductor street. Would you go ahead and explain? Thank you. Thank you. Again, so the director of Richard Lins, Business Adder, is 2.45 summer street needs Boston. Yeah. So tonight we're requesting administrative approval. Okay. Darling. We can do August 26th September 9th or September 23rd. With the statements of September 9th, if that's possible, because that's the second. We've got the 7-4-4-2-2-2-2-2-2. Check. Okay. That may have motion. Motion to defer until September 9th. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Brasov. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Mr. Carries. Thank you. Thank you. We'll ask the end of the renaissance request for the roll for the thrills from the soccer. Hearing none. One. One. Two. Case. BOA. One. Six. Six. Seven. Seven. Seven. Eight. With the address is 263. 265 North Beacon Street. If the applicant can't enter, they represent the present. They please explain to the board. Morning, Chair, person. Darling. Members of the board. Attorney CurricBlets with 300 Market Street. Brighton Mass. A line from Petitio. Along with me is my partner, Attorney Dean Brown. We also have the owners of the property, Tony Darnett, Nardelli, and his son, Tony Nardelli Jr. Hey, please proceed. Thank you. We're hencefully to submit our proposal to erect a six unit building on the footprint of the current two family houses that's on the property. The Nardelli's actually own that whole existing property there is a, as you can see from the picture here, the proposed unit is on the right side is an existing building on the back, along with the existing building out front, which is a commercial building. The proposal is to take the two family building that's on that footprint and put a single, single building within that, pretty much within the footprint of what's down there now, which will consist of six units. The lower level, it's three units on each side of the building. And then the lower units will have a one bedroom, one bath, or the walk-up patio, or the rear. When I say the rear, as you're looking at the site, 263 North Beacon Street, would be one side, the right-hand side, looking at the valley is the back, and the front would be on the parking lot side. It'd be a second, the first floor would have a one bedroom, a one bath, and the second, third is two bedroom with one and a half baths. This will create four additional units of housing in the area. The commercial building on the front is on the front left, where remain unchanged, that's really existing building on the back, which consists of townhouse units. The Nadelli's have owned the property since 1981. The, some of the zoning issues that requiring reverence of pre-existing violations for the current building that is there, it's our position to remove all of the existing building, constructing the new building, will be a significant improvement for the neighborhood and for the area. The building itself will be in conformity with the existing area to make use of the area with several line conforming business uses, including warehouse, asylum shops, and auto supply, and other multi-family buildings, which exceed three units. Directly across the street, across North Beacon Street, is the annual street housing, which has 10 four-story buildings in it. We believe that the upgrade to the building will have a significant, very positive impact in the area. The new building, again, as I said, is pretty much within the footprint of the current building. The new setbacks, actually, the rear, which is on the right side, as you're looking at the building, will have a, a, will increase the area between the building and the direct butter. We've also included a fence and some landscaping and trees to go in there, again, for a buffer to keep that area separated from Mr. Damwell. We'll live next door, right next door. And that deli is a proposing to build an all-electric building to comply with the energy, efficient green living. Building is put in place to be solar, ready in the event that solar panels required or asked for at some point. It'll be a cloudboard side, even then asked for a roof. There is noise reduction insulation throughout. There's a bike storage and bike rack site that will be on site, take advantage of the bike lanes and the bus stop, which is directly in front of the building on North Beacon Street. They're going to renovate the parking lot and all the landscaping throughout that whole parking area with all three buildings and upgrade to landscaping and the fencing there. We went through the neighborhood process, we went to the BAI and a couple of occasions and we had to resolve a couple of issues. I really want to issue the main issue that came about with our neighbor was just the road issue and road control. We actually worked with the city and we found some pretty good metal storage units, which we were able to use on the existing building and the commercial building, which has been fantastic in terms of the road remediation. It's not a great job of these big bins, these metal bins are able to hold two city trash bins, the big bins that have picked up does a great job of keeping that to a minimum and I believe that it was a very happy with that. We've also enlisted Green Plan, which is actually a tenant at the commercial building out front. That's a remediation road and sector control company. That's kind of monitored the site and make sure we can mitigate and remediate any issue. No, the speed up to the violations and how you're exacerbating anything, what's existing, what's the violations? The violations again, it's a 3F 4000 so that use has been, again we believe that the building is going to be in conformity with what's there at this point. We're adding four units, the two families had two two bedrooms, it's four units, we're going to add four bedrooms, we're going to add four bedrooms with the additional units. The four area ratio again is this little over at that point. It's actually going to be four four stories but the height level is pretty much in conformity with the existing building that's next to it right there. There's nothing known in the open space. These again have been violations that are pre-existing. These side yard setbacks are actually going to be a little bit better but again they're not conforming they're in their violations they're with the existing building and it's off street parking actually. On street parking there's going to be 24 units of 24 parking spaces which are within all of those the entire parking lot. There's going to be four parking spaces in front of this building on North Beacon Street and then they'll have the opportunity and the ability to use the other 24 spaces that are within the parking area that's that's surprisingly there. When we get the ambassador to page through or their other yeah are there other pages that would be helpful to look at? Where's that at? No there's more there's more plans to scroll through. Yeah okay is that anything to scroll through of note? The units are actually on there to show the units to set up. Actually keys in into the site plan. One of the things that we are proposing this is currently too long but they're all owned by the Nardelli's so we have a lot consolidation plan so that this will become one lot and by making it one lot we actually decrease some of the violations that were cited so for it existed for example if this is one large lot then we don't have a side yard setback issue. One of the suggestions for some reason the buildings in the back are encroaching on this lot and so that would be cause a problem with the need for easements between the different buildings and properties so again by erasing the lot line and consolidating into one lot we don't have encroachments we don't have to deal with easements we have the shared parking again the front building is commercial and honestly since COVID it hasn't been occupied very much and certainly all of those spaces are available in the evenings so there will be plenty of parking for the people in the new building but they additionally units. Can you address concerns from the planning department about access? I think more specifically it was addressing accessibility from is there accessibility at the ground floor to the unit and are your ground floor units accessible? That was one of the largest concerns. Yes there are side doors on the US and the whole back there's a walk in patio there's a walk in sliding glass to our on the back side ground level yeah you have to show us that in elevations cause what we're seeing is a lot of stairs to get to the unit the stairs coming on the side on the side into the unit and then the whole back walks out right so there's no so you would have to go up the steps to get to the front door of the unit oh the front door of the unit is around the left side you can see the stairs here there's four or five steps to come up right so it's not accessible and that was just the comment on the city accessibility department chill at tilten the lower unit you're talking about? yeah all the ground floor units are not accessible because you have steps ground floor has four steps now correct we're just putting it out so we can we can continue okay other questions from the board I think the other one is the issue of side yards because you have an S I was looking at the site plan if you can go to the site plan if you can zoom in so you know you have 10 feet that's required for a setback and I believe you're violating them but not by much you know you have one that's eight feet on one side yard and so I think one of the concerns from the boss of plan farm is that you have all of these other kind of porches and structures that extend out from that side yard and so one of the you know thinking out loud I think this is something that can probably be addressed with BPD design review but I don't have any further questions if I make comments on that the steps coming out that whole issue on that site is alleviated with the lock consolidation plan so when that lock line is removed now there are no issues there with it being close to the lock because the lock line is actually the far side of the large lock okay thank you all the questions let's have public testimony good morning madam chair and board members see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this petitioner completed the ONS community process our office hosted under butters meeting on January 29th at which three directive butters were opposed to the proposal and the relief being granted due to issues they fell with poor conditions of the existing property extreme voting issues proposal was presented to the bright and also improving association on April 10th which is in support of this application with that background our office deferred judgment to the board thank you thank you my last question we don't have any additional hands raised for the other moment okay I have motion I would like to put for a motion of approval with a proviso that the project undergoes site plan review with BPD in regards to accessibility and the second proviso is that the project the building be adjusted to not have encroachments per se within the side yard to address some of the BPD's concern and that the applicant also redesigns the ground floor for the units to be accessible is there a second this was disparage yes is better brawza yes Mr. Turner no Mr. Collins yes Mr. Monato yes chair votes yes the motion carries good luck thank you next we have case B08 170 98 99 but the address of 55 boils in street is the applicant and the leader represent our president will they please go to the board Chris Haasford Helios design group 116 St. Patel Street Boston on the architect I don't know if my client is on the call Adam Granger in any case this is currently a single family house proposing to expand from basic two story to a three story house with the addition of a small but a connector to a garage there's an existing detached garage this would be a new attached garage within the in-laws suite above the suite it is not a separate unit because it's connected internally to the main living space the house my clients are both from California they have family to spend extended periods of time at the house with them though this is to provide space for family I was going to ask a quick question on that so are you are you knocking down the detached garage we are exactly we are to yeah we're knocking down the existing detached garage it's big fun million metal shed and rebuilding a new garage in its place in which that does create a you know the front yard step back it's a corner lot front yard step back is existing non-conforming on the boils in street side at 9.8 it'll be more non-conforming because the garage will be attached the current garage since its detached is not count towards that that particular the other primary non-conforming that is FAR so I think we're going up to almost one the neighborhood is all over the place and turn the house across the structure process for you I think it's six units as FAR 2 you know there's a range of FARs around are there questions from the board now public testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is generally memory and the Jamaica plain community engagement specialist for the office neighborhood services the applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abutus meeting facilitated on May 28th with three of five abutus voicing support for the proposal non-supporters the other two abutus voice concerns regarding time frame construction noise a shadow study in its impact on abutus in the hours of construction the concerns were addressed during the meeting next the proposal was presented to Jamaica plain neighborhood council zoning on June 4th where they voted to support the proposal today our office has received one letter of support and one in opposition both maintain the support and opposition things previously mentioned thank you for your time and the mayor's office neighborhood services elected to first report for their chat thank you thank you hello and Jim please you can provide your testimony if you are speaking on this case you are muted good morning i hope i'm following protocol uh my name is reagan zalas and with my wife martina brain we own 53 boils in street we have been here uh 32 years we are opposed to the scope of this project because we feel it is too large for a very tight area i believe that there are more people in that position that have come forward because quote unquote they don't want to be unfriendly to the to the owners we have hold no ill will to the owners of good neighbors but we feel that this is too large a project they're also anticipating that'll be take up to two years and we're now retired my wife has Alzheimer's we're really concerned about the noise especially the noise but the um the dust that could be toxic because all these all houses are full of asbestos so we just wanted to again voice our opposition to the to the scope of this project we feel it's too large and that's it thank you but i'll miss please i just bite yourself um sorry let's see am i on yes you are okay my name is Margaret handy hannan and i i'm sorry i didn't put my name in um i live at three dresden street uh directly next door to the garage that would be demolished and replaced um i'm also in opposition to this um uh proposal um for some of the same reasons that Maria mentioned but um a couple of particular things i have an apartment that i rent on the first floor of my house um i rent it to a gentleman and his seven-year-old son who has um significant health problems i'm very concerned about what the impact of this would be on him um in terms of the dust the degree um i don't know if there's asbestos in this house but i imagine there might be um i'm very concerned about that i think it's possible that it would cause them to move out um which then would present a problem for me income-wise um the other thing is and this has to do with the scope of it but you know both boiolston and dresden are one lane roads there's no parking at all and dresden i wonder just where all the construction vehicles will be with this project uh will uh residents be asked to give up parking on the street to accommodate construction vehicles will dresden street be blocked um for a period of time uh and also where uh if if there are people visiting and using the apartment that's being added um whether or not it's planned for relatives right now um once it exists it doesn't mean it has to stay only for relatives where will those people part thank you please wrap up any other thoughts okay i just think it's i think it's too big and i think it's too much to ask residents to put up with thank you you're welcome confirmation thank you all right we have one more hand okay christian hi thank you so much my name is christian pop i live at seven dresden street um two doors down from the barrage and um or one door down um and i am um not in support of this project there's some of the same reasons that have been mentioned well my biggest concern i had two primary concerns one is that yes rhesden and wilson are incredibly narrow and tiny thoroughfails at this point and wilson is heavily trafficked um it's a main road from Lamarchin to center street even though it's so narrow and one lane one way um and i just don't know where the construction vehicle has been apart i think in part of the plan they were going to park in the small side yard that they're expanding into and that just seems incredibly unrealistic and impossible um another concern i have is every time there's even a small construction project in the neighborhood the rats and just last night um there was a rat running across the street right in front of the um garage it's gonna be redone and so i just feel like there's gonna be rats everywhere i find dead rats in my car room i have rat poison in my basement so uh just this construction is gonna be unnamed for two plus years and thank you ma'am well those are able to move to another hole so impact them all right do this one more by some more please add new information uh this is that Stephen and coberture we're at 14 16 dress and street and we are in support of the project we think that the uh the structures in in line um with the neighborhood right across the street on boisterin street there's a three four story building that's uh towering that doesn't have any green space like off the design was very um strategic and keeping a yard and a tree in in scale with lots there um i understand construction i also understand that we have construction in our neighborhood right now um that's inconvenient but i think at the end of the day it is gonna provide um uh more uh allow some of it to sustain the neighborhood uh and if they do decide to rent it out that's the thing you do to be able to forward to stay in the neighborhood so i understand the concerns that me first have but i think that they can be addressed it's just a matter of chocolate to add them and sharday about how the construction logistics and the uh uh mitigation of roading control i think those are all measures that can be addressed thank you thank you so are there any other public testimony i know mr. grain jargon or so if there are is there are other many stands these can be to address some of these concerns or we proceed well i'm sure we don't have any other additional hints great so mr. grain jargon you want to if you want to address those concerns that would be appreciated yeah just quickly a few points we definitely hear all the neighbors concerns with construction when we definitely want to mitigate that to whatever degree we can and try to have a speedy process um i know uh marina made i mentioned that we were asking two year timeline i just want to crack that our first estimates from our contractors that we are uh i've hired is 12 to 14 months and we are hoping worst case would be 18 months and of course we're trying to do that quickly as possible uh with regards to the like this quote unquote second unit it's it's not a second unit it's essentially just an extra bedroom for my parents to say it would not be legal to rent out to anybody else we're displaying the same year long term when my parents visit they don't have a car they want to be driving so it would not impact parking in the neighborhood um and i think those in the main points i want to respond to thanks thank you any other questions from the board may i have a motion i'll make a motion for a group for us a second just a separate yes miss berraza yes mr. Collins yes it's been out of yes chair votes yes the motion carries go next we have case b 0 a 1 7 2 9 0 6 8 with the address of 5 86 canteristry this is also an article any project the applicant and the other representative would explain to you and please be petty we belong agenda sure good morning madam chair members of the board attorney john phil genealogy on behalf of the proponents and reyes long and nizelle aponte from a d development both and reyes and nizelle a long time rosadone residents with a raising their young family also with us today is Dennis grieve with the project architect uh thank you for the opportunity to present this proposal by 86 5 and 88 canterbury street the zoning is community commercial one this lot size is 41,732 square feet the proposal is to build a four-story residential building on this 41,000 plus square foot lot this site is bounded by saint michael cemetery to the south a commercial car wash to the north the tabanacle Baptist church on the west and a residential building to the east with over a hundred units the proposal calls for 46 apartments with 32 off street parking spaces 46 resident bike spaces and eight visitor bike spaces to get a mix of 10 studios 26 bond beds 7 2 beds and 3 3 beds this proposal will underwent an extensive community and regulatory process was approved by the bp 8 board napal as well as the conservation commission the proposal is to provide much needed housing on an extremely large underutilized lot we work with the bp 8 planters to ensure that the buildings dimensions are contextually appropriate and that the site provides adequate open space between the neighboring multi-family residential parcels additional we're providing many public realm improvements including granting a pedestrian easement to the city to allow for nine foot sidewalks and the installation of street trees and a encrored nation with the public improvement commission in the park's as well as working with the mbt a on improvements to a bus shelter at the intersection of canton mary and american legion highway finally this proposal will provide eight of four of the units including its three bed families to argue with absolutely no displacement again thank you for the opportunity to present and we're here to enter any questions and if there's any questions Dennis Greenwood is on to show the plans as well we just got the advanced order of case through the plans for folks are talking i apologize miss canada yep and are there are there questions from the board any questions from the board at this time no questions i mean the good things are these are been all kind of already vetted out so yep let's take public testimony yes madam share members of the board call anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this time the mayor's obviously to defer to the judgment this board some back information the community process is went through a lengthy uh policy planning department community led process involving public meetings as well as uh comment period excuse me when public meeting back in February eventually it was bba board approves in April there was a number of comments some expressed concerns which they thought they'd like to see more affordability in the proposal as well as more homeownership there was also a number of letters that were in support of the proposal citing the increased density and it also appreciated the sign of the building itself the abdomen with the mouth hope canada berry neighborhood association which expressed similar concerns regarding condos versus rentals and also expressed concerns about the parking ratio without referring to the board thank you thank you all right mr. braya hi everyone uh Timothy Geeman on behalf of city council brine werel district four just wanted to share some public testimony that we received from constituents again just wanted to echo that the council continues to want to push for more three family or more style bedrooms and also more homeownership opportunities we are excited that this is going to bring more density to the area however we do want to continue to push for more homeownership so with that we are going to take uh stand non opposition make it well I'm sure we wouldn't have any additional hints okay any any other questions from the board here none may have a motion motion to approve that was second but it was just average yes it's better also yes this turner mr. Collins yes it's put out yes share votes yes the motion carries the vote thank you everybody next we have case the o81697493 with the address of 61 the 51 E full street it's the applicant and what they represent another president what they include the client good morning madam chair and members of the board my name is Charlie Tevman and i'm an attorney at 15 broad street Boston i'm appearing on behalf of the applicant Sean George who resides at five wheel lock avenue in Dorchester the existing property at 51 full street is a single family residence in some disrepair due to deferred upkeep and maintenance the proposal before the board is to construct a townhouse style dwelling with six units on the property there are three stories proposed and the height is 35 feet each unit will have three bedrooms and two and a half baths and the size of each unit is approximately 1500 square feet the building is designed to appear more like a single family dwelling from the street and with the man-side roof it ties in well into the fabric and the history of the ashmont neighborhood given the proximity to nearby ashmont station the major transit hub serving as the endpoint for the red line as well as several major bus routes no off street parking is proposed the applicant Sean George has completed the neighborhood process and the a butter process with strong support from director butters he also presented the proposal to the ashmont valley neighborhood association and we understand that they have taken a position of non-opposition to this proposal we have submitted to the board a number of letters of support from director butters including butters next door to 51 full street at number 55 fuller at number 47 fuller and at number 49 fuller we are in looking at the surrounding context we feel that this project is appropriate there are multi-family residences located on all sides of the property at 48 fuller 56 fuller 60 fuller 69 fuller etc and is noted by the planning department the design respects the surrounding scale and character of this of the neighborhood we have also been in close communication with the office of district city council Brian Morelle regarding this proposed project both before and during the community process finally we understand that the planning department has recommended approval of this project with design review and that the planning department concluded that the requested zoning relief for this project is appropriate the proponent the applicant Sean George and his architect Alex Hune from Montefrench design studios is available on this hearing to answer any process or design related questions thank you can you patient the plans and show us this the exterior staircase going down the front line yeah the ambassador can please as the applicants are speaking they need to scroll through the PDF we need that background thank you now yeah I would ask if the architect Alex Hune could address your question but I did know in the planning department's recommendation that comment above that stairs the south stairs which believe is the front facing the street yes this is our team from Montefrench design studio if you go to the fifth page onto ASCO 01 we'll get to the architectural site plan I believe it's the page after this one yes if you zoom in on to the right side it's just a set of steps that start from a small landing right off of the the street line and it's just a set of commercials commercially code steps down to a fire protection and utility service basement which is below the first unit of the other five townhouses will be slab on grade not sure if that's just your question if you have any other comments on that are there other questions from the board is there an elevation yes it can go to four pages after this so as Charlie mentioned we've designed the front elevation of the next page please yes on view one which is the right side we've designed the front to appear as a kind of smaller scale three story building with the roof being the mansard so that the the scale is again toned down so that the one two stories are lap siding and then the their stories the mansard roof is mentioned and any other questions from the board this is fully sprinkler yes it will be correct all right with that man public testimony madam chair members of the board for the record my name is Joe of the memory i am the joychester community engagements specialist for the office of neighborhood services the applicant has completed the community process which consists of an affordable participating held on March 31st that was likely attended where the participating groups were gone in green space and shade that were addressed on the meeting next the proposal was presented a Bayley for the civic association who voted to approve the proposal to move forward today our office has received eight letters of support thank you for your time in the rest of the neighborhood services elected referred to the board for their judgment thank you okay and we have the path you can provide yes can you hear me please say your name in address please Patricia McKinsey at 63 forestry please let us know if you're in support or opposition and briefly statewide um i'm in opposition because i feel like um kind of as bringing up like mushrooms on forestry we have one built better cross from my complex just last year and this this complex is not going to have any parking and i think it's just going to make it more crowded more difficult to find a parking space and it's just going to be a nightmare and my other question is is this going to be affordable housing or is it going to turn out to be million dollar condos like across this field from what i look now thank you but i'm sure we don't have a ditch you know a woman's for this project thank you and wore out his office thank you madam chair members of the board the council would like to support this project you want to thank uh mr. George for all of his communication not just with our office but with the residents of the street we've been in contact with the Ashmont Valley neighborhood association multiple times and they've also expressed mr. George's communication with the neighborhood so i just want to thank him for that and his focus on again home ownership and family style housing so the council supports this project thank you what the applicant like to just briefly address the questions around affordability and parking yes madam chair there are none of the six units are designated as affordable but they are designed for a family occupancy and then with regard to the to the parking it is a five minute walk to the Ashmont NVTA station it wouldn't qualify as a transit oriented development and it is a point that is also made in the planning department's recommendation about the proximity to the Ashmont NVTA station thank you any other questions from the board yes i'm just curious when you were doing the performance or your units because they're not affordable housing on a lot was there a amount that you would still have good use of the land and and be able for it to be profitable and the reason i asked is because i do find you know the design everything is contextual to some degree but i'm a little concerned with the open space it's just in terms of the coverage of area of the lot so you know you have you have six would it be still profitable if you were to do five but you allow for a little bit more of open open area you know for the residents to to enjoy so that you know this was a this is a question for hey handy hurry it up challenge our chair to the developer and unfortunately not and when we start this process we have this deal contingent on sound and approval so we do go to our financial the bank to see you know what is it that's the smart thing at the start you do the unit count six was the unit count and we do want to provide open space with these developments that's where a couple of notes we sat the house back 15 feet at the front just so it wouldn't be on top of the soil after the small of their green space there then at the back we have roughly 400 and change in square feet with green space that these people can use for whether it be smaller pets or kids they can hang out and and then each unit itself has a small rare patio which is roughly 100 square feet and then they all have roof decks as well and that was where we tried to like you know bring that open space for these families and again over young family in the city of two dogs and a two year old and open spaces and poor ones so that was what we tried to tie into it and enter the unit count six was kind of where we needed to be at in order to get the finance and to build this thing and okay great that that's all I wanted to understand thank you thank you very much thank you man motion madam chair I'm going to perform a motion of support because it seems like the community is on board with the project so with that I like to perform a motion of approval with BPD design review so it's actually okay Mr. Stambridge yeah Mr. Barbaraza yes Mr. Turner yes yes Mr. Collins yes Mr. Otto yes chair looks less motion carries good luck thank you very much thank you madam chair members of the board and Mr. Ambassador next we have case BOA 171 6486 with the address of 24 angel street the applicant has to add where the address on the present they put the explain yes good morning madam chair members of the board for the record attorney medical with Fletcher Tilton on behalf of the applicant with me this morning on the call is Talia Canestra from Studio Can the project architect this proposal we're seeking to direct a new residential building with four units and three parking spaces that's 24 angel street the lot itself is just over 5400 square feet and the zoning district is a three F 5000 the lot is currently vacant but the property is in close proximity to Blue Hill Ave which provides public access public transportation as well as many commercial uses along the busy thoroughfare the lot itself slopes up from the front to back so what we're proposing to do with this design is to build into that slope which allows for the four units in a building that is very contextual and in similar design in size to some of our budding buildings that are more traditional triple-deckers that are elevated and located up on the hill where we're digging into the hill a little bit as mentioned we are proposing three parking spaces to the rear of the building which you can see in the site plan on the screen right now this does meet the code in terms of number of parking spaces 0.75 spaces are allowed per unit and again we're proposing the three for the four units the three parking spaces we're providing we believe provides an ice balance of green space as well as a dedicated trash area for the residents we're also getting some cars off off the street in terms of the relief for seeking as mentioned it is a three F district and we're seeking the four family use there is a four to six unit building directly across the street as well as multifamily residential in a large development to our rear we're also seeking relief for additional light area for dwelling unit required is 2,500 we're proposing 381 FAR we're proposing a 1.12 where 0.8 is allowed again this is fairly contextual with the neighborhood where a lot of the surrounding properties are right around a 1.0 FAR we are seeking relief for heightened stories of feet you're allowed three stories in 35 feet we're proposing four stories in 38 feet so slightly above on the amount of feet for the building and as mentioned even though we're seeking the relief for the stories the design of the building really blends in with the character of the neighborhood finally we're seeking relief for side yard on the right side we're going to see three feet where 10 is allowed we do have almost 14 feet to the left side so we do comply with the left side in relation to side yard in terms of just the design very briefly in the floor plans the main entry is going to be accessed from a small set of stairs directly from game for street but they'll also be an accessible ramp going left to right which makes the first floor accessible unit one will be located on the first floor with a living room dining room kitchen three bedrooms and two baths unit two will be located on the second floor just under 1400 square feet also three baths you're allowed to so while you talk are there slides you want to be directing us to well or sure if we can go through the side the floor plans just page by page so we can fast forward to the there's the building itself again you can see it's contextual in nature because of the the lower access at that grade next slide please and just the floor plans so I already explained the first floor there's also a common utility and sprinkler room to the rear with common access this will be a fully sprinkler building all units will have in-unit washer dryer they're all three better in units so they are designed as family-style units and again with the washer dryer amenity then we can skip ahead now to the next page please so the second floor I believe I just got through it's just under 1400 square feet three bedrooms two baths with a front a small front and rear deck for some private open space and then the third and fourth floor both contain by-law units for unit three and four both units are between 14 and 15 hundred square feet so again family-style units each with three bedrooms two baths and some dedicated deck space we did meet with the butters and received some questions which we answered we also reviewed the planning departments recommendation and based upon the contextual nature of this project they did recommend approval the zoning relief we're seeking is fairly typical within this district without all clause and take any questions the board may have thank you are there questions from the board hearing none may I have public testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record by name is Jeremy Benbury man to do it just to community engage in specialists for the office of neighborhood services the proponent has the applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an butters meeting facilitated on May 14th where others made inquiries on total number of units and affordability while others express concerns having three parking spaces before units pest control and shadow studies following the emergency meeting no further community process was required and the proposal was allowed to move forward I thank you pretty much time in the most office of neighborhood services related to the board for the judgment thank you thank you Brian please proceed thank you madam chair members of the board Timothy Giman here from City Council of Brian we're all office just want to express support for this project as it continues to fulfill with the councilor believes is the greatest needs which our family style housing and home ownership opportunities we also want to thank the proponent for their communication with constituents and with the neighborhood organization thank you very much thank you any other questions with a additional comments with this project okay that may have motion madam chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the proviso that the BPD really looks at that fourth floor in regards to messing to make it more contextual there's second mr. stubborn yes this is Berberasa yes this Turner yes mr. Collins yes mr. Kato yes chair mox yes motion carries good bye thank you very much that we have two companion cases the first is case BOA 1719239 with the address of six police on street along with that we have case BOA 1719245 with with the address of six are police on street if the applicant's in or they represent a present with it please explain to the board good morning chair members of the board my name is Patrick Foley business address 265 village street Quincy I'm the attorney for the projects and I'm joined here by that Gavin Driscoll from lighthouse architects the project we're here to discuss today is six and six are police in street this is in the three f zone at five thousand square foot lots for lots as well on this property is a three family home currently which hosts three families really enforcing the cities needed for wanting to house families in the city also on this lot is a detached by and style garage the applicant bought this property last year when it was extremely blighted and really has done a nice job on improving it it create a property that one the neighborhood can be proud of the location this property is right near the bus stop as well as a train station a train station the applicant is not going to be changing the footprint at all all work and improvement to be done inside the property the applicant is seeking to convert the four thousand square foot base into an apartment unit in the existing barn into a housing unit as well all the areas are pre-existing non-conformant this will help create additional housing in a city in an area that desperately needs housing for families yeah I can go through the plan down driscoll lighthouse architecture and design business honey business address 180 allum street branch we miss if you can zoom in on the site plan on the title sheet you can see on the left side of the property is the existing three family home and then on the right part right right where you can see the existing garage like that said the existing basement apartment will be four thousand square feet with two bedrooms and one bath the existing ceiling height right now is eight foot one and most of the utilities are actually towards the back of the property so really right now it's just an empty basement right now that we're looking to utilize to make it to a unit we will be adding a bunch of windows to meet all the airway requirements and then if you can go through I can show you the barn as well which is going to be the new barn is going to be a twelve hundred and fifty square for unit to bed to bath the existing barn itself it was probably used for horses back in the day the floor of the garage is actually about three feet off the the driveway floor so it really wasn't more for like horses than an actual garage and we're going to jazz up the existing garage to meet the aesthetics of the neighborhood but also match the existing house I think these are just the plans of the house the garage plans were a different set of plans because it is a different housing unit and I can go through any questions if in here I also want to add we didn't we didn't a button's meeting that nobody attended we were advised that we didn't have to do a community meeting after that okay thank you are there questions from the board and yes I have a question you walk us through your parking please oh yeah if you go up to the the cycling it's not sure on there but there are currently six parking spaces on the lawn and those will remain as is we'll actually probably gain a little bit more space because the existing barn currently right now like I said the the first four of the garage is actually about three feet off of the driveway floor so there is a ramp that someone probably added about 30-40 years ago that actually brings you up to that three feet of the garage which is actually going to be demoed and to watch the game I'll be able to do a little bit more space for parking okay just to be clear the parking is going to be where that kind of parking lot already exists exactly yeah that's not changing at all perfect thank you thank you can you can you tell the ambassador where to go to the site then we can see the parking spaces oh yeah if you go to the first page and they're in there dimensional ah they're not dimensions on it they're the existing parking if you zoom in I can show you on the lot if right in front of where the garage is there six spots there now that are changing are they tandem it's not tandem it's kind of it's not tandem it's kind of the parking to the left and to the right it's not tandem now other questions from the board what type of the address we have in the basement ah you can see on the segment as uh uh existing stairs going down to the basement where the X is between the garage and the house and that we're doing a new set of stairs on the left side of the property on the top left hand side and if you scroll down to the next page where we can show the address from the basement if you zoom in you can see on the top left-hand corner where adding is an existing walking path from Harvard Street and we're going to connect that path to the new service stairs up and you down to the new unit although they'll be through meaning the correct community here as yet if we're also adding like the window wells for the uh air and later requirements as well thank you thank you mayor public testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jarge B. Bembery and the do adjust the community to engage with specialists for the office of neighborhood services the applicant has completed the community process which consists of under-bothers meeting facilitated on March 4 with no more brothers and attendants and with no further community process required the proposal was allowed to move forward in the process to date on our office has not received any letters of support or opposition thank you for your time in the business office neighborhood services elected to purchase the board for their job madam chair we don't have additional comments for this project all right Mr. Castor will I was office thank you madam chair i'll be real quick just want to say to the counselor supports this project um you know we encourage residents to continue to reach out if they ever have any questions or want to submit uh their public testimony here to the board but with that we're happy to see uh creative uses of trying to uh continue to add home ownership uh so we'd like to support thank you without any motion i'll make a motion on prulo thank you mr. coverage yeah miss bad boss yes yes is China yes mr. Collins yes yes is an auto yes chair amongst yes the motion carries the vote thank you so much next we have case b8171 9974 with the address of 96 west concrete street if the applicants and or the representatives of a president with their police plans on the block uh good morning madam chair members of the board my name is on we sent 10 i am here on behalf of center of the post-cannon which is the owner of property this proceed uh this is an existing uh first or building uh our proposed project will assist to uh converting the basement into one separate unit so this is a conversion uh personally we have three units uh the third and fourth floor is one unit uh second and third are the other three units now existing condition uh is a by-level unit so we have the basement of first floor uh the stone of the owner which used to reside on the basement has an existing finished space uh he he asked me about after the study of the city concrete is studies and now the unit has become uh become large for the owner which is a similar one so the we are proposing essentially to separate the basement for the first floor uh the entire building is about uh three thousand five other square feet uh we have about two thousand square feet locked there are two organizations which is the basic limitations uh conversion although uh the dimension required based are meant including the square array issue and there is no proposing increasing plus square area for development the the scope of work the resource to your work except for steps on the the rear which is a walk out basement at the rear entrance and then we are also arranging an out of the uh basement and if we remain the existing dearest area or access to our basement uh for the front entrance and then we would slide in large uh make kind of a home in order to accommodate this concrete system as part of the project and as required for concrete we will have to escape the uh different spot and the basement unit a different list uh there is no uh landmarks commission of work is it still work is uh not visible for the street uh if any and then we will not be out and also uh different windows since we are located in better which requires windows and the rear property and the start create level and essentially no one will be done on the second third floor first the work is limited to portions of the first floor and the uh we are in general of the basement well then on that i'm about to ask our equal expectations so can you clarify what what is the space used for now and how much square footage is now and then how much square foot is proposed and what kind of occupancy so what's there now i know the basement is finished and it's part of the first floor as you can see what is it used to be in the square what is it used for now it's been used for and even more there's a kitchenette and there's a bedroom and what are you proposing to to change about it we are proposing to relocate uh the bedroom to the rear uh have a kitchen and a living room towards the front and relocate the bathroom questions from the board um is um anyone from the BPD on or Jeff Hampton great question i would like to know too mr. Hampton are you available great question you know i'm here okay great yeah so i have a question for you Jeff um that's not you know there's it's pretty typical that some of the units in uh in a soften have these um probably units or even a new bird and so i know that um the BPD made its concerns regarding potential flooding i see that i see the use being um i see that use being kind of already an existing kind of living unit you know they're really just um separating it as a unit but currently is being used as a one you know as a two-story kind of residential unit um and so i know that there's potential you know the way to get around it is to design with the flood base level elevation but i would imagine that that would then not make the project usable as a basement so um what are your what's your thought about it about this project it's not like it's starting from new you know it's kind of existing already thank you uh this better baraza madam chair members of the board Jeff had to city blossom planning department um i can't disagree with you on this um however as you have been aware the board has been aware over the years when the seafront has come into play whether it's creating new livable space or expanding livable space we just don't support it we've been very consistent on our uh recommendation on expanding any sort of living space that isn't seafront and i understand that there is a lot of this in south end there's a lot of this in southe where you know it's one unit where it wouldn't have been expanded right to the seafront right they're just adding square footage and this was never addition but now it is and you know we're just putting it on the record that we have problems with living space in the basement that are in the seafront based on everything that's in uh 25A um but again understanding that this has probably been the existing use that condition for years i get to leave that tough decision up to you um but our recommendation over the years and seafronts have put in the play as to consistently recommend an aisle on these types of expansion and creation of living uh dwelling units rather okay great thank you so i i give it to the applicant then and ask um what happens if there's flooding you know this unit gonna be so correct no this unit is uh for rent and if i make a comment on on on do they have to stay there well there are two things here uh is the uh do you call the ground floor like uh this did uh which does not apply because we don't meet uh we are not within the applicability section of this icon there would be no excavation uh the present uh celine height is about seven uh fit ten inches in which meet the co-op requirements and therefore no excavation is needed below eight feet on the uh uh bostosir base that's required on every side and that's why we would not sign it uh the other criteria is paving which we are going to excavation because the construction period over 50 percent of the assessors are developing which will are not uh in terms of construction and in terms of the seafront uh is the is the is the also does the other is within that uh uh the district it uh the construction that we are doing is called the project considering that this has been for uh many many years in the finished space the construction does not include a desi prop part right so uh can i get clarification because uh Jeff Louise is saying that the seafront doesn't apply but the bpd recommendation says it does apply so which one is it so it doesn't apply only because it's not out of late and i agree with Louise however this has been something over the years that even though it doesn't apply our recommendation remains the same because of the Harrison Ave i believe Washington Street in south Austin like i'm not disagreeing with Louise um however you know it is mentioned on ISD's letter um but our recommendation will be consistent because you know seafront applicability or not you're still in it right so um that's our you know our feeling on the seafront and sort of living space that's in it we're going to be consistent our recommendations to that okay uh thank you and so the alternative would be that um it just remains as is kind of an extension of the first floor to the basement right Louise yes well if you have a i mean the concern about the bpd hares is legit uh Jeff and the state can have a standard policy yes solid reasons because of the uh uh more issues that uh we are basically bond and i'd be saying if it's not out of the uh we're going to be denying the section of the zoning code that is not the project uh number one number two if i make just one final comment the uh although we have a platform that uh study i believe the long elevation of the basement is about the airport uh bcb and uh it's a walk out basement too it's almost a great level in the rear so the is readable to you physical floor to this particular even as people for you said above you said is above the basement level i i'm pretty sure it is okay i don't have any further questions thank you for that i think i i don't want to point out the violation is also recently dwelling units forbidden but with that i'm going to see if there are any other questions from the board if not i'm going to open it up to public testimony is there what the testimony? good morning uh madam chair i'm sorry uh there is no any hands for this project okay if there are no other questions from the board may i motion okay madam chair i'm i'm going to make um make a recommendation to um approve approve the request is there a second? second mr. stepperich yes yes is better browser yes is turner yes mr. commons yes is panato yes charitable to your motion carries thank you next we have case to be away 169 four four one through with the address of 84 to 86 through the lab it's the applicant and what they represent the president but they please explain it to the board um mr. secretary madam chair members of the board uh yes we are present uh Kyle Smith of the terror law business address of 359 new grocery boston's bat bay i also have the proponent of the owner on the line as well um we have a pre-existing structure for which we have a little bit of confusion in the prior use of the property last identified current occupancy of record was a two family with commercial a laundry net on the base level first floor at the time the owner took the current position of the property with being used for religious church purposes um the current proposals to convert uh existing use in a multi-family residential area to a six family two levels per floor having entrance ways into the respective units on the first four levels separately along the left side of the building um there's no intent uh to um um uh they're looking to square off the back of the building over what is kind of a a current single-story structure so effectively all the violations here for setbacks are effectively you know pre-existing non-conformities uh the only intended proposed uh changed the building envelope is the expansion or extension of the uh single-story structure to the rear of the structure to make an additional living space the basement level will be just for storage uh refuse and recycling storage and mccamples and other related systems to service the housing proposed housing above it with proposed uh two bed one bath units on the first and second and third floor all a very similar comparable square footage and sizing um we've had a lengthy process through the community having met at least twice of the double street neighborhood association internal changes of retooling of the configurations of the units uh heating some feedback from the community about refuse of storage converting that into a basement storage as opposed to the rear of the structure um scaling back the proposed addition to the rear to just extend over the existing single-story and not square off the building um and otherwise as the ONS office can speak to just the length of the community engaging process uh and then we also have a representative of council or roles on office on the line as well what I believe is uh in support of the project as well so with that I'm happy to turn it over to uh question me for the board and members of the board thank you are there questions from the board can we scroll through the plans uh who's managing the window is it but in chance all right as we keep scrolling and can someone does anyone have a question as we scroll and i'm not controlling it um can we see open space and talk about the open space um variance uh speaking as to it uh the current footprint of the building is not proposed to be changing so it is largely a building that is situated on two street fronts that effectively has zero foot setbacks and conformity with you know structures effectively left and right down the street um so there is very little existing space and we're not proposing to make any worse than existing but working with a footprint that doesn't allow for a lot of current uh none of the open space nor is it a cyclan of a plot yeah there's a note about a new stair that encroaches onto the city sidewalk so that elevation there yes so part of the feedback of the community was you try to engage the street scape uh to try to break up the massing of what is otherwise a very just kind of currently solid brick wall and the thought was to have separate entranceways into the first floor units to break it up and allow for plantings and you know um greenery that could kind of be nicely kept because that is otherwise just currently uh all brick all concrete all sidewalk and just relatively aesthetically unpleasing um so the design element to add the entranceways and break up the uh the wall face was kind of a request of the community for a design element and how do you spoken of public works about that uh at present not but certainly we part of the process and it's also something to be be the design reviews we wanted to kind of go to them with um exterior bpda uh approvals and then have the conversations with public works hi and yes mr um there's also a concern with um accessibility on the current street from from those um stairs can you talk about how much parents would there would be on the sidewalk or the impact on the sidewalk um should the stairs uh i guess if um the owner is present can you speak as to dimensionality we we don't have the accessibility relates to the architect designer currently um there's a slight narrowing as you can see um but you know still example room for wheelchair accessibility um between the edge of the stairwell and the fencing there in the edge of the sidewalk and thank you but if this the stairs extend longer than your neighbor stairs i'll hop in down the street i would say yes they do how wider is the sidewalk and it regarts to the plot plan how how much is it within your your law like i'm missing that plot plan no it's not it's it's encroaching them to the sidewalk here we go the cycling was definitely part of the submission to ISD i do have a coffee i can share my screen presented to you if it does help you we don't have that uh capacity got it so uh it is references line with inside of our lot line and i'm trying to see the dimension this thing stairs that comes out of the existing building is the stairs within the lot line or is it stairs outside of the lot line uh it showing us being within inside of the lot line there's currently stairs on the rear stairs so where so how what's the what's the dimension of the of the sidewalk uh the extension off of the building for the existing rear stairs is 3.6 feet in width rear stairs i'm seeing an exist a1 can we go to a1 she a1 i'm seeing right there i'm seeing stairs yeah there are stairs right yeah so the those are existing the plan is to put a second stairwell into the unit that faces onto bluehole and the thing that i'm asking is the lot line it worries a lot line is it right on the building is it is that stair within the lot line and which would be called like a front because you're in a corner lot yep so per per the site plan that i have uh which is represented to iost these rear existing stairs are lined within inside of the lot line okay you're calling this one behind this rear but i'm calling this front you have that as rear you're calling that rear correct yes though that is the existing stairwell to the rear of the structure uh speaking away from room eleven and those are pre-existing in per our site plan those are inside of the lot line instead uh so do you have an in your lot do you know what the width of the street of the sidewalk is on my site plan the width of the sidewalk is not measured it's not measured okay okay but if i if i had to extrapolate if the existing stairs that you see are 3.6 feet in width it looks like the sidewalk therefore is approximately i would say 6 feet in width if i was too extrapolate for what i see for dimensionality in the stairs okay thank you mr. Hampton thank you madam chair members of the board japan to uh city of awesome planning uh just if this were to move forward and were to be approved and i'm sorry to be talking out of turn here i would request that a clock plan be submitted uh to the board and to the city of Boston planning department so that we can de-seem where these stairs lie um i don't want to you know put the card before the horse and have us do a design review of picks not even going to approve it so i would just like to get some you know clarifying documents submitted prior to signature maybe um just so that everybody is on the same page yeah i'm actually just looking at the google image and it appears from all the adjacent buildings that the stairs existing stairs seems like it's you potentially could be a lot of line because all the other adjacent buildings go out to that edge of the of the stairs so nothing is protruding beyond that in your design no correct correct and it apologies this this cyclan does exist it clearly has been provided but not uploaded and put the cyclan this year they're not encroaching onto the sidewalk there okay great i don't know any further questions thank you any other questions from the board may i put with testimony madam chair members of the board for the record my name is charter me memory i am the rock scurry community engagement specialist for the office of their people at services the applicant has completed the committee process which consisted of two of others reading specialitation on july 29 and mace set went up to 2025 both when there were others on attendance the proposal was allowed to move forward next the proposal the proposal move forward represent to delie street neighborhood initiative who voted to approve the project to move forward today our office has received a 33-6-meter petition of support for the proposal thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for the judge thank you right and you can proceed thank you madam chair members of the board uh councilor or else just wants to go on the record and say he supports this project and he really appreciates the proponents um communication style going back to the civic with their redesign plans and the continued communication um as well as the uh you know creative use of a area that needed some help so happy support thank you but i'm sure we don't have any additional comments for this period okay madam motion madam chair i'd like to perform a motion of approval with a proposal that the project undergoes bpd design review and that the bpd should look specifically at the site planning uh in regards to um accessibility potentially of the ground floor unit uh and that the applicant also provides a stamp plot plan by a licensed surveyor of existing and proposed and he has a we have a second that's just average yeah this better browser yes as per our yes mr. Collins yes this can auto yes chair votes yes motion carries develop thank you madam chair members of the board your time that will let people know that um we since we passed the 11 a.m. hour but we will ask if there are any requests for the girls or the girls from the 11 a.m. power and the reminder that we are in six number four and what about it chair this uh and right hearing none hearing none we move with churn to the nine thirties and that that will take us to case b o a 168 five one four zero with the address of four spring and street if the applicant can do it they represent up the present with the employees that's going to the board yes thank you mr. stembridge madam chair members of the board attorney ryan spits with bounds and marancie business address of 168 eight street first floor self-hosting uh joining me today is the owner crispono uh this proposal seeks to raise the existing structure and erect a new single family dwelling with ground floor garage for two vehicles on a lot consisting of approximately 1150 h square feet the lot sizes are pre-existing non-conforming and requires a relief for insufficient lot area as the code requires two thousand square feet proposal also lies within an mf r sub district if i can destroy your attention to sheet five of five five of six please ground floor will contain parking for two tandem vehicles which will also create the need for relief under off-tree parking for design maneuverability there is also a small office approximately three hundred and fourteen square feet located in the rear than round floor first floor will contain open concept living room kitchen dining room bathroom in a pantry second floor will contain three two bedrooms two baths in a laundry room third floor will contain the master bedroom with a bathroom in a walk out deck approximately 175 square feet in in the rear if i can draw your attention to sheet six of six these are the elevations in which you will notice that the first floor does have a small deck in the rear 88 square feet that will also be used for second means of egress we have additional violations for our bootstructure restriction violation violation requires a conditionally used permit as a proposed height of the existing structure despite the height being compliant under the new proposed requires the conditional use permit for exceeding the height of the existing structure we have a side yard violation three feet is required by code the new structure provides a three foot setback on one side and a point eight foot setback on the other side however this type of setback is consistent with the neighborhood and lastly we have a rare yard violation the rare yard requirement is 15 feet as this proposal falls within the shallow lot exception under article 68 the proposed rare yard is 11 feet seven inches but again this type of setback is consistent with the neighborhood this point time at point time I'm sure I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments thank you are there questions from the board here in Dunham and public testimony Madam Chair and Board members see Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services this petitioner completed the UNS community process are often associated in a butters meeting on February 6th at which one directive butter was opposed due to the proposed height of the building believe that the height would impede natural height to their property date of heaven neighborhood association is the active civic group in this area and their support of this application or officer receive one letter of opposition which is forward to the board on February 6th that background our office deferred judgment to the board thank you thank you good morning Madam Chair and members of the board Laura here for council since office this time council listening light to go our record support based on a good community process where the development team are leaving it original concerns concerns for neighbors and a butters on the height views sorry on the heights in views to the varners to varners support because we've been asked that the team continue to work closely with the rest of the answer on any quantity of life issues or concerns that arise during the construction phase thank you for your time consideration thank you Madam Chair there are no additional comments Madam Chair before you try to vote I just want to just highlight one quick thing I think it's relatively important for the board to understand with the mayor's office spoke of is what our response was in fact of making those changes so we did address those issues that letter of support was submitted to the boy from the immediate director butter and again as you heard from counselor Flynn as well that he spoke in support based upon the community process and the changes that we didn't meet considering what we had heard during the community process thank you thank you and is this new raised hand so Matthew says there's some of direct butter at six spring of streets and like Ryan said we had some very good community meetings and I'm in favor of the project thank you any other questions from the board Karen Dunne may I have a motion I'll make a motion of approval for the second back in Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Browse yes Mr. Turner yes Mr. Collins yes Mr. Pado yes chair wants yes the motion carries good thank you next we have case B08 167 2611 the address of 245 249 east east street if the applicant is the one and the other represent our available they've been splashed to the board good afternoon madam chair good morning members of the board I am Timothy Fraser from the law office of Bain Torpe 175 Federal Street I represent the applicant in this matter east side LLC along with me is Mr. Jason Demano of east side LLC as well as Mr. Craig McGinnis the project architect this project seeks variances to convert the change in occupancy of the premises at 245 east street south Boston from a store restaurant and five apartments that's what it is now just six apartments there's no exterior work it proposed the project is essentially an interior renovation to remove the commercial use and then install a new bath a new kitchen and frame two bedrooms in the former small frame area the project triggered the three zoning violations why we're here before the board today the first with respect to parking 1.5 parking spaces would be required for this new unit however due to this properties proximity to your square review is a transit oriented location and so we think parking seems to protect tenants expected for the new units consistent in district and in the second two violations the usable open space we have 1000 square feet this new unit will require an additional 200 square feet the building footprint isn't changing and we're on two street fronts we have zero setbacks we have small open space in the backyard so we're not proposing to make anything any smaller but because the building footprint is a change and we have proposed no additional two-roomed strip feet of of open space and then the third violation is the lie area insufficient we're on up 2350 square foot lot so we think that that's a typical lot size in the district and the zoning relief for lot size is actually typical also the properties in this district the project connects the commercial use into a much unit needed additional ownership opportunity in the city rather not ownership but but occupancy and the applicant unit the ONS community process on May 15th we held in a butter's meeting we're unaware of any opposition to the project and therefore request your support Mr. McGinnis the architect is online if you have any questions regard to the interior renovation and designs same that I'll turn it on with you thank you questions from the board here I'm done and I'm public testimony I'm chair on board members he got the seat gots with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this petitioner did complete the community process their office hosting on the butter's meeting on May 15th at which there were no comments made the city side neighborhood association took no position on this proposal that background our office deferred judgment to the board thank you good morning my chair is a members of the board are here for council this office at this time consults we would like to go record and support based on a good community process here it is by fully requested and proponent continue to work with the neighborhood on any quiet life issues or the construction phase thank you thank you madam chair there are no additional comments without may have a motion we have a motion so approval a second Mr. Stambridge yeah there's better browser yes Mr. Turner yes Mr. Collins yes Mr. Ardo yes chair votes yes the motion carries the book thank you madam chair thank you members of the board thank you Mr. Messer next we have case BOA 1724134 of the address of 190 during West Springfield street if the applicant and or their members are the president would they please explain to the board yes good morning madam chair members of the board this is Andrew Litchfield with 193 West Springfield street here to share with you a single family renovation project what we're proposing is adding a roof deck in the rear of the property as well as two off-street parking spaces in the rear of the property as well that align with the majority of the neighbors to a left or right on the street the roof deck is going to be roughly 15 by 15 and it's towards the back of the property so it won't be seen from the street view and we've been the historical commission already with this process so we're ready to be in the property right now we're adding the roof deck in the parking in the rear and our rear deck as well we worked closely with the neighbors to a left or right to come to the plans that you see today thank you thank you questions from the board Mr. Seminole good morning madam chair members of the board Christian Seminole passing Rala Trust and we have both C. Cardletters from the applicant thank you thank you I have public testimony well madam chair members in the board my name is Noah Jones representing the mayor's office and neighbor services regarding 193 West Springfield street our office to first support judgment on the spanner the community process was conducted including on a budget meeting held on 3 3125 attended by about four community members the feedback from this meeting was that the neighbors are happy to see the property being purchased and renovated but we're expressing some concerns about the size of the deck we received one letter expressing support from the proposal this part was expressed after the applicant and engaged in good based with the neighbor and a compromise was made regarding the size of the deck the proposal was also reviewed by the Claremont neighborhood association where the applicant presented to the association on 2 2025 the association stated that the applicant's new plans aligned with the abusers and was done lucky completing the process at this time the mayor's office neighbor services the first board's judgment on this matter thank you everyone for your kind of consideration thank you thank you madam chair we know how to add additional comments okay that may have motion make a motion speaker 10 seconds better browser second it's just average yes it's better browser yes it's turner yes mr. Collins yes it's Bernardo yes chair votes yes motion carries thanks so much for the day the next three cases have been in front so that will take us to the 11 a up here with first we have case g o a what the zero eight six seven two with the address of 203 people of street the applicant and the representative present with the place of plan then it wants to have one 203 big old street then we'll move on and come back to that one way so we'll move through case b o a one seven one eight one six nine with the address of 12 80 street the applicant's end with the representative this president what they put in to explain this case with the address no to missing okay keep going move on to case no no sorry excuse me excuse me yes i'm for the uh the big old street apartment sorry about that okay yes yes 30 big old street yes i'm i'm my name is big David job i live i'm addressing i i'm we front to a 203 big old street we my parents were the victim of a scam by the uh contract is low in and uh construct actually company and we would like to we are trying to build extra space to the second floor uh second floor of family space so we we would like to have uh all right do you need to reread that into the record with the sandwich or is that probably a good idea about it here yeah awesome this will be for case b o a one seven zero eight six seven two with the address of 203 big old street you could go ahead if you go ahead it's more than now sir yes yes sir yes we've lived in Brackenville about 35 years and my parents would like to the our families expanding so we were trying to build extra space to the second floor structure to accommodate the arrival of new new babies and stuff like that so we hired a construction company low-evenstruction company and this day they constructed the addition to the to the house without a permit and we would like to obtain a permit to to finish the construction uh of of of that structure so that's what we are trying to do right now okay i have a question from the board hearing none can i public testimony matter chair and board members ciggy johns with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this petitioner completed the on-screenity process our office hosted an abutters meeting on May 13th that which there are questions regarding the proposal there was no opposition stated the Bracken-Alston improvement association is in support of this application our office has received one letter of opposition which was forwarded to the board prior to the abutters meeting although it was our understanding that this abutters may have had their concerns addressed at the abutters meeting so unsure if they're still in opposition that background our office deferred judgment to the board thank you thank you well i'm sure we don't have additional comments that motion no sorry very much more you are sorry more than three from council reason office i'd like to go on record just project thank you would that man have a motion i'd like to put for a project before a motion of approval we have a second second thank you mr. stembridge yes is that raza yes is ternar yeah mr. Collins yes is pinato yes chair votes yes the motion carries we just got our mind folks for awaiting to please queue up what when it's your turn or if you want to make a comment during the public comment period mr. stembridge yes but chair since we have reached 11 30 take the opportunity to ask if there are anywhere in place for withdrawals or the show from 11 three time frame and my folks that we are six number four i see mr. lenzan it looks again thank you madam chair mr. stembridge i have two cases on 87 mores which i believe has known for as well as well as he won last attempt at cyber cipherkins so there are two cases under the adios of 87 bar so both of those that's correct and they one look okay though we'll begin with case of b o a 148 2368 with the adios of 87 bar street along with that will be case of b o a 148 2374 which also has the adios of 87 bar street go ahead of the train loop thank you out good morning again madam chair mr. bort richard lenz 245 summer speed spots and be on the petitioner requesting administrative deferral we also did deferrals you address some of the building card items as well which i was still working through what do you mean my mind we get to august 12 august 26 to number nine to number 23 or to go to seven thank you appreciate the option september 9 works i think you're following up our september 9 slot with that may i have emotions yes motions are the four these cases until September 9th in their second i can second thank you mr. stepbranche and that we have we're we're moving we're moving sorry i don't know they're ready we're moving mr. separate that was you yes ma'am thank you mr. raza yes this turner yes mr. Collins yes mr. auto yes share votes yes the motion carries that will move on to the next deferral yes which would be for case b o a 157 5584 with the adios of a one watching the district uh to a land thank you um actually trying to make your day shorter so i appreciate it um for the record rich of lens 2.45 summer um east blossom you have a petitioner just to administrative for along this one as well okay and are we asking for the same date i mean i'll be there so that works for the board i'm happy to do the night as well is that what caroline yes it is okay ma'am we're moving motion through the floor until September 9th there's that count again mr. stepbranche yeah it's better brazo yes mr. honor yes mr. Collins yes mr. panato yes chair votes yes the motion carries we'll see you then and it'll be puffy thank you and i just uh to preview the 12 o'clock interpretation of 1230 interpretations um those are all um one of them withdrawn to being deferral gets to those later but just supports aware that we won't be having to deal with any of those so okay thank you any other deferrals for level 30s okay mr. sombridge i'm sorry madam chair oh sorry i'm saying about reason those hands yeah okay sorry i'm here on behalf looking for the deferral for one eight from one b mystic street in companion case 223 through 225 bunker hill street on behalf of my colleague George marazic okay that's the first one yes so that would be for those of you for case b o a 159 8189 with the address of 180 to 1 be mystic street along with that would be will be case b o a 159 8199 with the address of 223 to 225 bucket hill street would you go ahead and explain turning read thank you mr. smbridge madam chair members of the board attorney Ryan spits with bans and rancid business adj of a 168 8th street first floor south blossom i'm here on behalf of my colleague joys maranasi looking for an administrative deferral now i'm what's available we give you august 12 august 26 September 9 September 23 or later we'll take September 20th 30 please okay with that madam motion motion through the fur until September 23 now the second second mr. smbridge yes is better braza yes mr. colin's yes is panato yes chair votes yes the motion carries great thank you my apologies for the delay a good morning madam chair this is Jason around with unrepresenting 12 havy street and we were interrupted by we were scheduled for after big a low that we i start presenting and then they presented just want to make sure we'll be still yes you will be heard we're just seeing if there any more deferrals any other deferrals for all of 30 okay thank you if not okay mr. smbridge so with that we will return to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. and we will start off with case of b o a 171 8169 with with the address of 12 havy street would you go go ahead and explain please yes thank you very much good morning my name is jason grown i carried out the design for this project and we're representing the clients homeowners they're looking to extend the living space into the attic level of an existing two-family residence can you go back to page one please i just want to explain on the left side plan it's very clear that the footprint of the existing dwelling will remain intact there will be no changes to the existing foundation walls the proposed attic plan will be 990 square feet for which relief will be needed for 752.5 square feet the new roof peak will be kept under the 35-foot all-bound building height but relief will be needed as the increase in attic floor area changes the height and stories from the existing two and a half to three stories and we can continue with views of the exterior perspectives page two page three so page two shows the new roof structure it's a contextual gabled roof with cross-door murs and then page three the photograph from the left shows the existing conditions of the current residence which is a two-family and we're looking again and to keep it as a two-family the perspective drawing shows the proposed roof design as we've behavior street we've received full support from neighbors and we're looking forward to the next steps thank you thank you are there questions from the board hearing none may I public testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bemberley and the Rosalindale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Labor and Services the applicant has completed the community process which consists of an appartus meeting facilitated on May 22nd with no aboveers and attendants the proposal moved forward in the process and presented to West Village and neighborhood association and with no opposition the proposal was approved to move forward thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services were elected to the person for the job thank you my name chair we don't have additional comments okay without my evolution I'll show you through a second thank you mr. Stammerch yes Mr. Turner yes Mr. Collins yes yes Mr. Bernardo yes chair votes yes motion carries the welcome next we have two companion cases versus case B.O.A. 169 446 1 with the address of 28 Carolina Avenue along with that we have case B.O.A 169 447 1 with the address of 30 Carolina Avenue on if the applicants or the attorney or cast further that please explain the boy good morning madam chair members of the board mark the cast my cast law 75 Arlington Street in Boston attorney for the project proponent Michael Minkoff and with us today is Gary Hendren who is the architect of record this project involves the conversion of two existing commercial industrial structures on the same lot which is currently a roofing company into six residential units and it involves a complete historic preservation and restoration of the existing historic buildings and conversion to residential use which is consistent with the character of the area and indeed this is a three five thousand residential sub district in this lot size is 14486 square feet so it's rather large the I just wanted to comment on one thing the B.P.D.A. recommendation includes a request for designer view to address the parking situation in terms of screening and buffering and one of the violations which is front yard parking but as you saw in the site plan the existing buildings are set pretty far back on the parcel and so the design of the parking area in the front is sort of a function of the existing structures there's no place to put the parking other than sort of in the front yard but as Gary Hendren will explain and show you on the site plan and renderings we're taking special care to to make that very appealing because we don't want it to conflict with the very charming historic character of these buildings also Gary will show you that we're doing a lot of open space for each of the units will have a yard area or patio area to enhance the appearance of the buildings with that I'll turn it over to Gary to talk about the design of floor plans and then can address any specific zoning questions that the board may have Gary. Thank you Mark members the board it's my pleasure to walk you through this project again this historically has these existing buildings have been used for many uses the most recent of course was the roofing company which has been there for many years before that the the building on the left was actually a carriage house which was used for actual carriages and horses and the building on the right originally was used to process milk later turned into the roofing company so there are two very distinct buildings the one on the left being wood frame the one on the right being a brick construction but we are restoring both buildings with three units in each of the buildings and as you can see as you come in off Carolina there's actually quite a great change at the bottom of the site plan there's pretty much a steep pitch ramp that comes up to the flat area between the buildings where the parking is going to be historically of course that's where all the trucks and people working in the buildings were there and in between the two buildings was really a storage yard for roofing materials all this is being turned into a nice landscape area and we have plenty of room to put landscaping to screen the parking area which is about three and a half feet above Carolina Street in terms of the entranceways we are there's an existing steps and entrance in the front of the building on the right which is going to be restored and reused and so that particular entrance faces the street the other two units are like townhouses so they will interrupt the courtyard the entrance to the building on the left is at that corner area so that main entrance does face the street which is again one of the conditions that we're looking for really from we go to the next drawing this just shows we're reusing most of the dormers that exist and the again the building with the circle around it it's primarily the existing building does come have a two story in the front and then a one story in the rear we are adding a third bedroom to one of the units so there's a small addition on the second floor but we are not altering the footprint of either building so there are some issues with the setbacks being less than what's required but that's because the existing buildings were built long before zoning was in place can we go to the next slide nothing new there next next slide and this shows how we're dividing up to make some very unique unit is essentially a townhouse with two to three bedrooms in each unit and then the six parking are right there on the front as you can see there's quite a bit of open space adjacent to the little retaining wall along Carolina and there's quite a bit of open space between the buildings which will all be landscaped and divided into a little private yards or places for patios for each of the units next slide and that just shows you the second floor and where that on the rounds on the right side with a sort of peachy colored bedroom is in the yellow bathroom that's the small addition and that was just to make this a a larger unit for having a family what we're calling the family unit next slide and in terms of elevations we're not altering the roof designs we're keeping the brick all the just restoring the brick and again on the in the center of this elevation you can see the small addition that we're putting on the second floor of the the building that's on the right which was where the actual roofing materials were bent and formed in a gutters and things like that next slide and that's just a history the one it was built and some additional information so if you have any questions about the design we'd be glad to take them at this point thank you are there questions from the board sharing them for the testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bembery I am the make a plan community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services the applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abuters meeting facilitated by May 8 two of us in attendance one of our voice support and the other of our inquired about Quinto in the shift the size of the lot to the number of proposed vehicles is concerned for trees on the ground next the proposals was intended to make a plan neighborhood council for zoning on two and both who voted in support of the proposal thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services we'd like to defer to the board with the judgment thank you is this are you are the raised answer I'm sorry yes we have an Anthony please you can proceed so your name and address thank you come on come on come on come on in the chair members of the board um Anthony Jorny from city council or in Murphy's office the council would like to go on record in support of this project thank you thank you madam chair we have another person uh Jane Dukamo she sent a message but she was also promoted as a panelist no sure she if you want you to read a message I don't you want to read it go ahead please okay she's an aborted and she would like to ask about two issues whether 20A and 30K online is straight and the project shows me an aborted and the three parts of else to which are now only by me I am a 70s survey just straight only second I would like to ask the owner about the weather the several trees which cross property lines will be affected by the construction and if so how thank you thank you I think can I answer the question which ever makes sense please anyway know that the trees particularly along with the back property line will not be impacted by the construction and their actor remain thank you without we don't have additional comments okay any other questions from the board here in that map but we can't I mean we have a motion I'll make it first man chap before a motion of approval with a provisor that the project um provides buffering and screening along the parking area that's fine second it's the separate yeah this better baraza yes this Turner Mr. Collins yes this pirato yes chair votes yes motion carries thank you kindly members of the board yes thank you next we have two two companion cases the first being HBOA 173 0651 with the address of 16 Patterson Street along with them we have case BOA 173 0659 with the address of 18 Patterson Street it's the applicant or their representative president but they're putting the plans in the board morning madam chair members of the board my name is James Christopher of 686 Architects with the business address of 10 floors road and brain tree joined by my client Joseph McGeckern the proposal before you is to subdivide the existing 6,092 square foot lot into two lots lot A which houses the existing single family home at 16 Patterson will be 3,361 square feet and lot B will be 2731 square feet and we are posing the erection of a two unit townhouse style building on 18 Patterson Street my name is Robert James Magger I actually need to use for us okay we will be five member board thank you Magger um the the existing house at 16 single family will remain there is a as a single family home there is an existing garage to the rear which will be raised there will be a common driveway between the two buildings with two jet nose-end parking spaces behind the building parallel to the driveway and then two individual spaces for the single family home to the rear of the lot we conducted a robust meeting process we hosted we held an abiris meeting in met with the low-nose and association mother requests of the neighbors was to remove to relocate the site in the building so that at the corner of Patterson we have a three-flick setback it was originally at 1.2 which goes up to 4.6 feet in the rear we also reduced the FAR it's a three-story building with three bedrooms two and a half baths you can if you go through the slides the plans will illustrate what I'm going over now three beds two and a half baths and they all 1,600 and three square feet each so with that I will turn we also received letters to support from our director butters at 14 Patterson which is our property line of butter as well as at 27 rubble and several other butters in the area of within the director butter of confinement also the subdivision and use we took a really close look at the existing make-up particularly on the block between Patterson and do adjuster avenue which is directly across the street on this slide as you see the site plan here and the density and use as proposed on this site is very very consistent with the housing make-up in that section in this neighborhood of the city so without alternative over any questions thank you questions from board you're not a mayor public testimony well madam chairman this is the board my name is Emma Jones I think the mayor's office neighbor services regarding 16 to 18 Patterson Street office difference to the board's judgment on this matter a community process was conducted included on a butter's meeting held on 428 25 that was attended by about five community members the feedback from this meeting meeting was significant opposition regarding the proposal sliding the parking behind the building being insufficient as well as the distance between the structure and the sidewalk as well as the conformity with the neighborhood for this proposal additionally we received seven letters in opposition to the proposal expressing concerns such as the stop sign that is already disregarded will be further obscured by the work building on a street with families the size of the building in relation to other structures on the street and sustain noise and trash pollution in the neighborhood due to construction we have also received four letters of support regarding the proposal it was reviewed by the lower mills to make association at their meeting when they express support for the proposal after some changes were made but yeah again at this time may as often neighborhood services different supports just run on this matter thank you everyone for your time consideration thank you both I'm very nervous before I'm leaving this in council concerned about this also like whether it's a proposal that good thank you yeah Anthony Jalardi morning again madam chair members of the board Anthony Jalardi from city council Aaron Murphy's office the council would like to go on record in support of this project thank you thank you now to Jeff I miss well we did receive email comments and I just started to chat from a chat from a butter miss and maralas question construction safety I just wanted to try to address this concern some of it was there's some rabbits on the site we anticipate that once we start normalizing the road and to move along we will bake the site for road and pavement as is is required by the building permit process and any construction that takes place will be in accordance with the city process requirements in the state standards and if there are any concerns they can reach out to me directly and we'll address thank you madam Jim thank you any other questions from the board now a motion we have a motion madam chair I like to go for a motion of approval their second second it's just average yes it's better brought up yes it's car now yes it's an auto yes chair wants yes the monkey carries thank you for your time thank you next we have two additional companion cases first being case B08 170 3866 with the address of 99 Hutchings Street along with that we have case B08 1695 630 with the address of 99 are Hutchings Street it's the applicant then who they represent our president would they please go to the board yes good morning I'm a down chair member of the board I'm a nutmeg nachga from the Republic of Architects in Oswak Street I'm here to present Cedric Cooper and Sonya Baros it's actually quite simple project we really want to convert the existing carriage house to a single family attached single family for the owners the owners right now it lives in the main building there's three family units which are the yellow outlined and we want to use the existing structure the carriage house we actually use an old carriage house and it needs some a lot of TLC the beautiful building and if you can scroll down I can take you through if you go to the last sheet it actually shows I am sorry go to the 99 are which is the project itself this is the secondary the secondary permit where the main building is now out of compliance because we have two structures on one lot if you go to the 99 are we'll see the entire project correct okay go to the sheet and I'll just show you the carriage house so here in the zoning analysis of building code so we're converting the rear carriage house to 99 are and we have four existing parking spaces and the owners are doing just basically utilizing the existing structure in the back with open living space with the guest living area slash and then up the floor will be just master suite if you there's a bunch of violations one for the 99 which is life-fronted insufficient because of the two structures the front so in a part of it is also front yard insufficient rear yard insufficient but closer than what we acquired and we are two lot two buildings on the same lot two drawings on the same lot and that's for 99 it's two violations so it's a beautiful structure we want to work on it and make it you know just live up all space and so that's pretty much the project thank you questions from the board here none may have public testimony madam chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bembery and the Roxbury Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services the applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an approach meeting facilitated on April 22nd where the proposal was received unanimously was where the proposal was received unanimously support from attendees next the proposal was presented to greater tradition neighborhood association where they were to just support the proposal today that will office has received 17 letters of support one being from greater tradition neighborhood association thank you for your time in the myself of the neighborhood services like the preferred support for the job thank you mr. Muradale you can proceed what's my house are you just waiting without was this project okay we don't have any additional story I'm actually not in favor of 18 Patterson Street I raised my name for that proper okay well no I mean you got seven opposition letters seven opposition thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you live on them will that may have a motion motion through through is there a second back in this December yes it's better browser yes this time yes mr. Collins yes and it's panato yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you very much the return to the 11 30 schedule of the group go to the interpretations cases get you for doing time and ask if there are any requests or withdrawal from the firm mr. Collins thank you again madam chair members the board um Richard lens on behalf of practitioners on the interpretation matters um for 944 senator tov of systembridge we did receive the correct interviews the letter and the violations have been removed so I can withdraw that one okay so that's just need it is a record case the house of avenue 4 case v o a 170 44 40 with the address of 944 7th or mystery i'll make a motion that have the case worked on did there a second again mr. sambridge yeah it's better browser yes this term yeah mr. Collins yes this panato yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you with respect to the other two matters 60 2 to 66 condor as well as 260 that's 269 maverick those have issues that were common to 944 sareto that we're just waiting for ISD to rescind those violations as well so we would ask that both both of those cases be deferred until such time as the updated retuse of that as an issue well we can well sorry i'm glad you do we need a date count yeah i'll give you august 12th 26 September 9th 23rd October 7 how much time do you need the stones i think we can have this result on the end of august we're just i think it's a matter of just confirming what we did on 944 pretty much the same on the other one so uh end of august is fine uh for place over okay we have a motion motion to defer to august 26 now a second better round this to disparage yes it's better bravo yes mr. colons yes this panato yes chair votes yes motion carries thank you so with that we will return to the 11 o'clock hearings it would be bad if jay was there any but there was another 12 o'clock interpretation request is there any request for that to around that one managed here have been informed that i as d is present and ready to talk about this case so okay so we must then move to 23 wachers that is where we're going that's okay let's do it so with that call or case v o a 173 2190 with the address of 23 wachers street if the applicant and those their representative present with their police explain for here for 23 wachers and is that what get on doesn't appear to be on calendar you want mr. circle back to it or to defer it we could defer or deny it since they're not here fair well before we deny it can we hear from i as d then yes and then the stare so it's someone from i as well yes the stare tomorrow is planning and so many i as d so this application came in of extension of living space and adding a dormant dormant on the top for which with that it did give them a couple violations 9.1 extension of non-conforming for area exceeding usable open space insufficient front yard and sufficient side yard and sufficient and also a rear yard and sufficient this is a two family in one family zone so it's already a non-conforming structure and by extending or creating any anything you within the envelope of the structure would already trigger these violations are the questions from the board are you ready to make a motion yes madam chair i'd like to put forward a motion of denial is there a second there most of that bridge yeah it's better aza yes is turner yes mr. Collins yes is been outo yes chair votes yes the motion carries but with that we will return to the 11 o'clock stations and we will go to case viewing 173 1880 with the address of 134 hamden street this is an article 80 case so we'll ask is the applicant and or the representative wants to buy the case through the board yes good afternoon now madam chair members of the board attorney next is ullum McDerman Quilty Miller and Hamley if the mr. ambassador could go back to the front to the second slide please met madam chair will be pivy as as you'd like to say for this matter thank you much as we can here on behalf of ballman capital group next slide mr. ambassador i'm sorry this will just be our team cast for ballman who's the property owner and developer and also from rodeo architects Jonathan Quinn is on with us from the development team next is the slide can you scroll yeah i'm interested in the next slide perfect and this is just the rest of our team again it's an article 80 projects so full range of consultants from transportation civil sustainability accept i'm next slide please mr. ambassador perfect so 120 130 for hamden it's four parcels this is kind of a overall summary the combined lot size is 29,000 or a feet where the new market neighborhood of rock sperry it's currently an iron mountain storage facility so a records warehouse and it's an existing six-story building of about 73,000 square feet and as you'll see in future slides a lot of pavement and pervious services really non-utilized building a lot and the proposal before the board today is to change the occupancy of the building kind of an adaptive reuse to a self-storage use which would be the main use of that 73,000 square feet along with some other accompanying changes of use that you can see here on the right side of the slide and then also new construction of an additional building six-story addition at a vacant portion of the site which will include about 32,000 square feet and that will be new retail office and then self-storage on the upper floors there which will kind of better activate this street corner at hamden in Norfolk app next slide please mr. ambassador and this is just the existing conditions again the site in red at the top and you can see hamden Norfolk streets there as well as Howard Street and this is the former Howard storage building which you can see on the lower images built in the early 1900s this area is really deficient public realm the sidewalks the street trees there's really not a lot there as you can imagine and then you'll see this is really an edge condition between kind of the new market industrial core and then the residential part of Roxbury across hamden street on the left hand side of the top image next slide please we are in plan new market so we just wanted to highlight that it was recently adopted which resulted in these zoning changes I think from 2023 and then article 90 in the zoning code was changed it was enacted in February of last year and that adopted zoning changes in the area planning department this is large project review so they did approve the project in May under article 80 large project review as being aligned with the new plan new market and the new zoning changes in the area next slide please this is just quickly to highlight some of the zoning conditions on the site you know again it's a very large non-conforming industrial site long existing warehouse structure that covers a lot of the site we do have a lot of street frontage over 200 feet on hamden street over 253 feet on Norfolk and 32 feet on Howard so we are also in a regular kind of uniquely shaped corner lot which speaks to the zoning relief a lot of unimproved surface areas as I mentioned and that edge condition so there's a lot going on on the site and again the adaptive reuse of the existing story building does limit what we can do from a sighting zoning activity perspective on the site next slide please this is just project benefits not going to go through these line by line but there are a lot of benefits here because we did go through article 80 due to the change of use of 50,000 or more square feet really wasn't thorough in productive article 80 process we had a great impact advisory group we had great engagement with the new market business improvement district through awesome ideas on how to really activate the street corner and bring some vibrant street to the neighborhood at this area more active street frontage and public benefits we really work hard with them mitigation and benefits that will help address some of the needs in the immediate area next slide is just a zoning chart again we are located in this new new market 21st century industrial zoning district in the new market creative industrial zoning sub district which is a mouthful under article 90 of the zoning code so the use is actually conditional the self storage use is a technical change of use it is a warehouse use now but under the new zoning code in this area self storage was actually carved out as conditional use under article 90 so we do need a conditional use permit for that we need max building lot coverage the requirement as you can see in the chart is 50 percent it's actually an existing non conformity at 54 percent it were proposing 59 percent with that new building addition and then max building height again no changes to the existing six-story building but we're adding an addition to it like a wing so to speak on the vacant portion and that's meant to match the height so what's required is five stories and 65 feet and what's existing is six stories and 67 feet and we are proposing a new addition to also be six stories and 67 feet to match the existing heights so we do need a slight variance for building height stories and feet next slide madam mr. ambassador this is just refuse a letter I just walked you through the zoning but I'm happy to go to go back through this and next slide Jonathan coined from Roating a few more slides Madam Chair he's just going to show you quickly what we're proposing so Jonathan you want you want to take over quickly you're thinking good afternoon chair I'm the board I'm Jonathan Quinn from Roating Architects 535 Albany Street Boston so as you know that we're proposing in approximately 100,000 square foot self-storage retail and office building mainly self-storage so this is a grandfather plan that you're looking at the the large rectangular portion of the building in the bottom right is the existing building that will be mainly self-storage and then our addition is sort of that triangular shape portion of the building which have the ground floor will be retail and then as it wraps around to the back parking lot it's going to be a office for the self-storage so they'll have you know visibility on the parking lot and control that for sure we've at the addition we've set the building back from the existing and you know to create an outdoor space for that retail whatever business will be in there hoping that they can activate the street with that setback and then and you can see on the site we've kind of set the building back as we've gone down north of street to to create a lot more green space on the site we are complying with the complete streets for the for industrial neighborhood where the street trains are actually set back from the sidewalk to protect them from trucks and then in the back the existing parking lot will be you know we have that and making it more efficient and more useful for self-storage you can go on to the next slide so these are just the full set of floor plans so as I said at the ground floor we self-storage in the existing building a retail space in the addition with a little bit of office for the self-storage at the second floor again we self-storage for my self-storage throughout in the existing building but then at the second floor in the addition will be some kind of office space for you know attend later on down the road and then the rest of the building all the way up is self-storage within that self-storage there will be some set of sites physically for the like collectibles or wine storage there's some existing you know storage spaces on the floor floor for that and then Jasper moment is you know thank you some of the self-storage for business storage I believe on the on the first floor that still will be determined but it will be a percentage of self-storage for local businesses use next slide so these are the the elevations are quickly built through these the self-evaluation on the bottom left is the hamstring elevation so you can see we are reclating the the existing building as you probably saw from from the existing condition pictures this side actually failed and fell into the street so that has been removed made safe but now we will be reclating it putting back grit to kind of see to the to the history of the building and neighborhood and then some more modern kind of industrial materials used throughout the rest of the building we're really using to live in that panel you can see we've set in portions of it to kind of go see about the windows where anybody gets self-storage doesn't really require a lot of windows so you know we wouldn't be putting those back in but we are trying to you know make the the sound a little more interesting and you know go see in those windows we felt like cut to the history of the building but also add all the interests of the facade as we've downhand and you can see it gets a lot more glassy at the retail and office space and above it's more metal-bound the familiar elevations you can see in the rest and more show how the building steps as it moves down north-folk and then the acceleration is a small portion of it on on hamstring there not hamstring sorry um power and you can see we've kind of pulled some lines off of the existing neighboring building which is actually attached and tried to you know incorporate the building especially coated with the the neighborhood next slide of the reason so these are the the renderings you can see a little bit more of you know how we've used materials and how we've tried to incorporate some of the the brick the historical materials and then you know these large industrial buildings are so we're getting around how they are we try and emphasize that and highlight it and use the materials of color to make them interesting and break out the facade so as I spoke to you saying some of the metal panels to go see where those windows were we've added windows at the stairwells where we can and large glass portion at the retail then you can see the addition sort of steps back to create those public green spaces as it moves down hand and wraps the corner and then down north-folk street we try to add color and you know um changing of the materials to create some visual interest there and you know that moment at the corner of north-folk and Howard Street with the large portions of glass in the public uh from which space for the retail next slide please so that's our presentation if you want to get any questions from the board. Questions from the board? Okay uh are you are you convinced that retail use um will work here on this site? Yeah that's a great question um Mr. Berraza you know I think we've worked Casper is pretty confident in that you know we've had discussions with the with the new market business improvement district folks and so Sullivan to have those discussions and then actually as part of our mitigation for the project and our discussion with the planning department and with others we actually are providing the first year free rent for the retail tenant to make sure that there is a viable tendency there so it's a great question um the one that I think we've had those we really had good discussions on already with the city um and in that you know part of the mitigation is that free rent which was included in our um uh with the planning department and then we're right okay thank you no further questions um Dylan Norris thank you Madam Chair members of the board good morning and my name is Dylan Norris and I'm just reading into the record as the project manager with the development or review division of the planning department for the article ADB large project for you today just for reference on November 22nd 2024 the proponent team for 134 Hamden filed a letter of intent under the plan department's policy regarding provision of mitigation by development projects uh which solicited nominations for an impact advisory group which were delivered to local and state elected officials on February 19th 2025 that impact advisory group or i.e. was finalized with five members the proponent then filed a project notification form for the project on February 21st 2025 which initiated the third day public common review period notice and the project notification form were sent to the city's public agency as departments as well as the elected officials additionally copies of the project notification form were sent to all of the impact advisory group members as well as distributed uh through the Roxbury on new market distribution lists um the planning department subsequently sponsored and held one general virtual public meeting on March 25th 2025 and a virtual uh impact advisory group meeting on March 24th 2025 in order to solicit feedback and review the proposed project the i.e. in public meetings were advertised on the planning department website uh distributed through the Roxbury and neighborhood uh Roxbury and new market neighborhood update lists the public meeting and i.e. were also advertised on the website and uh sent to the relevant newspapers the project was then brought before and considered by the planning department board on May 15th 2025 in a group i am happy to answer any questions from the board as may have related to the article 80 the process thank you so much hey it back to you okay Mr. Murphy Mr. Murphy hi my name is Ben Murphy and with the new market business improvement district i'm here to speak in support of this uh proposed project there's a lot that we like about this project caster and this team have an extremely uh responsive and coming to us asking us and all of the abutters um what we think of their project totally open to any feedback on ton of bat they've already shown uh exactly to get involved in the area themselves he's moved his headquarters up to Boston here in order to be closer to this project and to become part of the business community in the area on top of that it's also a great use of a very old building that was very difficult to utilize productively normally we would not be extremely thrilled by new self storage but the fact that a castbird this team are adding this whole new development for a retail space as well um makes it a project that we are very happy to see coming to the neighborhood thank you mr. Rimas you came to see it? oh madam chair i'm good boy in the area mr. council council's office positive uh good bye it's gone right in support thank you madam chair members of the board called our new and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this time the mayor's office is deferred to the judge for this board as you heard this went through a lengthy uh boss simple planning led community process involving good conversations with the community understand the community is excited to see activation on the ground level uh the mountain closing association is also in support of this proposal uh and looks forward to working uh further with the applicant having them at one of their meetings uh if approved by this board but that information will defer thank you thank you madam chair we will have any additional comments okay for that we have motion send to approve madam second good mr. Stumberidge yeah yeah this bed of brazo yes this turno as mr. Collins yes this panato yes chair votes yes motion carries and with that i'm going to ask for a 15-minute link we all need thank you thank you do recording stopped you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you this building became available. They were in need of additional space. They reached out to me, I suggested immediately, that they began outreach with the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay, with our butters, with people in the community, et cetera, which they have done with great success, quite frankly. We are pleased to let you know that we received the letter of non-opposition from the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. We have also, we know there are letters in your file from State Representative Jay Livingstone and City Councilor Durkin in support, as well as many, on the letters of support from people in the Neighborhood. We have an ONS of butters meeting on May 22nd, where we answer questions and receive general support from the folks who attended that meeting upon the answers we provided to them. This use, which is the main subject here, of course, is one that we believe can be conducted without any disruption to the community in a similar way that we have conducted the school operations at 107 Marlboro for many, many years without an issue. The, we have also reached out, so the area to the Back Bay Architectural Commission, which would be the exterior design review element required for this location, just as to keep lines of communication open and in the event there are any issues on the exterior. The main issue here against the use, the dimensional items which were cited are all existing conditions. The FAR, the regular setback and parking, all existing conditions and no additional changes in those regards were made by this application. We believe as we appear before you this morning that we are fully supported in the community and we certainly look forward to taking your questions. I would like to introduce Mr. Hodge. We'd like to make a brief presentation. I know you're very delayed here on this morning with me as quick as we can, but I would like to, I think the more should hear from Mr. Hodge to the operations of MA. Great, thank you, Jim. Thank you. Yep, and thank you to the ZBA for hosting us today. As Dennis said, my name is Justin Hodge. I'm the head of school for the learning project. For those who are unfamiliar with our school, the learning project is a small K-6 elementary school founded in 1973. It is located in two locations, our main building as Dennis says at 107 Marble Street, just around the corner from our project at 263 Clarendon. And this is where we host grades one through six. And our kindergarten is in the basement of the first Baptist church, another block away at the corner of Clarendon Street and KOMF. The learning project is distinctly small for an elementary school, serving approximately 118 students per year, 60% of whom live in Back Bay and its contiguous neighborhoods. And the rest come to us from the greater Boston area, most of whose parents work in the downtown area. Our project today is critical for our long-term sustainability in Back Bay. For one, having our main entry point of kindergarten, subject to a lease is a major vulnerability for the school. And it was determined by our board that it should be housed in a location owned by the school for long-term viability. In addition, the school is in desperate need of administrative office space, as well as space for subject classes like art and science as they're currently in shared classrooms, which often conflict in limit what we can offer to students during the school day. So we've been looking at real estate properties for the past 10 years. Nothing quite worked for us either because of the size or the distance from our main building or more often than not due to the high price point in Back Bay. We've been considered selling our building at 107 Margo and buying a larger building in a different, less expensive neighborhood but ultimately decided against that. 107 really is a touchstone for our alumni and our own parents and our Back Bay location is key to our identity and our mission. So at long last, we came upon 263 Clarence of building a appropriately sized for use within a price range and with such wear proximity to our home at 107 in the Clarence Street playground that was absolutely ideal. It's a five-four building. We plan to use one level as administrative offices and one floor to house our kindergarten classroom of about 18 to 19 students along with their three teachers. The rest is still being considered by our staff and the board but will likely involve classroom space for the school views such as art space for other ones. So as Dennis said over the past year, the board and I have gone through those appropriate steps and this rezoning and architectural process including working collaboratively with the city and the neighborhood association and the neighbors and we feel that we've addressed all those questions and any concerns that were brought up. So we hope you'll support our project today. We wanna thank you for your consideration of our school. We do feel that providing a permanent home for our kindergarten and the space that our students and administrative staff need would allow us to thrive now and into the future. And with that, I'll open it up to any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions? Some of them. And yet I have one question. I think that any communication with the Boston and Mars Commission? We met them with the, that they architectural commission on number of occasions. Yes. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May we have public testimony? Mr. Semino. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. City Johnson, the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process are office hosted in a butters meeting on May 22nd at which a butters posed questions about how the change of use would affect traffic flow, possible vehicle idling, as well as whether there were any impacts on trash accumulation. Petitioners were able to answer these questions. Neighborhood Association of the Backbase and non-opposition to this application with that background, our office deferred to judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Seminole? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Christian Seminole, Boston Grand War Trust. We have both key card letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Very much. I'm sure we have another thing. Some? Mr. Seminole? Yes. Good afternoon. Chair and members of the board, Mrs. Smith, the courage for the Council of Sharon Durkin's office. The Council is in support of this proposal, notably, NAB, voted not to oppose this change. We've been in contact with the head of school. We believe that they've been supportive and good partners with the community, as well as our office. And so for those reasons, the Council is in support. Thanks so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, their validation of comments. Would that be a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. There's second. There's a baraza second. Mr. Steprich? Yes. Mr. Betabraza? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Conato? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries the buck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have through the committee. In any cases, first is case B-O-A 168, 33, A-5, with the address of 240 to 246 commercial street. Along with that, we have case B-O-A 168, 33, A-8, with the address of 240 to 246 commercial street. If the applicant didn't know, and or their representative, the applicant will take place in the form. Thank you. Mr. Steprich, thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego, Dr. Eultescaum, with the business address of 11 B-Constreet, here in behalf of the 240 commercial street LLC. And with me, from the ownership team is Mary LaPoli, a part of the ownership and development team, and then Guy Grossy, who's the architect for the project. What you're looking at in this rendering is the exterior of the existing building. And you can see it's the larger building that houses Billy T's restaurant on the ground level, a just a point of reference with the Juliet Balconies. The proposal is to change the occupancy from its current use, which is restaurant. If you can stay on that others, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. To change the occupancy from the restaurant and office use, as eight office spaces inside plus the restaurant on the ground level, is to change that to a restaurant on the first floor, which would remain, an eight residential condominium units above in the upper floors, and then to add two exclusive roof decks to the top floor units of the building. Just by way of background, you can see that's the existing conditions on the left, and just an aerial view very similar to other buildings in the area during the pandemic, like so many other office buildings. This one fell on hard times. There were a lot of vacancies. My client is a lot of residential development and given the need for residential housing, they wanted to change the use. And so that was where we came up with the proposal. All of the work would be on the primarily on the interior of the building, other than pointing the exterior and adding some Juliet balconies, and then the roof work for the two exclusive roof decks. Next slide, please, Mr. Ambassador. This is just, as you can see, the plant plan just shows the contours of the building. If you go down about eight slides, you'll start getting into the plans, which I'll go over, and the proposal, if you go a little bit further, it'll show the proposed, right after this. This is the elevations. Next slide down is this one more down, and then you'll one more, yeah, this starts to show the proposed conditions on the basement. It would remain as mechanical and utility-room storage area and that storage area for the restaurant. The first floor would remain as the existing restaurant with a common lobby and a new and large elevator system. Second floor would house units one and two, and those would just have those proposed French balcony doors and small railings on front. Third floor would house unit three and four, same with those small French balconies. Fourth floor units five and six, and then the fifth floor unit seven and eight, and then via access by hatch, those would house the two roof decks, the size of the roof decks. If you start to go down in the plans on Mr. Ambassador, you'll see the roof decks are 587 square feet and 545 square feet. These units are large, so their family size units as well, and one of them would be used for family members of the LePoly family as well. So these are all three bedroom, three bath except unit two would be a three bedroom. Two baths, other ones are all three bed three bath, and they range from 1,515 square feet to 1,646 square feet, which is something that the folks of the North end liked because so many times we see smaller units in this district, and they like the idea of condominiums and larger sized units. Just to go over some of the violations we were cited for gene condoplacability, and we did get the sign off from Boston Water and Sewer. We got cited for the roof structure and building high restrictions because we are adding, and you can see it here, the roof deck on the top floor. All of the other end and open space, we were under on units one through six, although the top two units met the requirement with the exterior balconies on top of roof decks. All of the other violations off street parking, where yard setback, building height and feet were pre-existing violations, and so we're not changing any of those at all. And so we were happy to go through the community process. I know Nura sent a letter of non-opposition and new neck supported the proposal as well. With that, I can pause and answer. Oh, and just to point out the BPDAs recommendation, they mentioned that this is consistent with the goals of the city's office conversion program, although this was smaller than what would qualify for that. It did fall under those guidelines. So thank you for your time, and I'll pause to answer any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? These buildings typically don't have two staircases. And them, are you adding a second staircase or is one either two existing staircases? Guy is on, he can go over the layout of the egresses on the building. Hi, my name's Guy Grassey with Grassey Design Group where the architect, if Mr. Ambassador Youth is scrolled to the floor plans, the proposed floor plans, just keep going, because there's a bunch of existing condition plans. There are to answer your question quickly, there are two existing stairs. There were three buildings here, once upon a time, historically, as an office building, there are actually two existing interior stairs where maintaining some parts of it and extending other parts, modifying them, but there will be two interior stairs that go from the fifth floor down to the exterior. You go a couple more slides up, you'll see the plan of that, you keep scrolling down, I'm sorry. But anyway, there are two interiors. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Hello Madame Chair, members of the board, my name is Evan Jones, I'm the floor speaker of services, we're referring to 248 to 246 commercial street, our office to first support stretch from on this matter. A community process was conducted, including on the better's meeting, held on 11624, that was attended by about four community members, where primary and the questions were asked and no support or opposition was expressed during the meeting. The parole also was also reviewed by the two local civic associations the North End and Waterfront Neighborhood Council, as Attorney Draco expressed. They did the express support learning of the proposal, but this morning they did also submit a letter of support to my office, which we took in and provided in this testimony, and then North End Waterfront residents association, then also submit a letter and an opposition to the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services differs to the board's stretch from on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Mr. Sanelli? Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board, cushioned Sanelli boss and we're on the cross, we have both Cicadas lives from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. We go. Gabriel and Ramirez, please, you see? I got a third new Madame Chair, members of the board, Gabriel and Ramirez on behalf of Council, Gabriel and Clara, so about that, this time the Council would like to go and support the Cicadas proposal. Thank you. Mr. John Ketchman, please. Mrs. John Ketchman? I'm not John Ketchman, that's my husband. My name is Adrian Dianne, and I would like to thank the chair and the board for this opportunity to speak to you. I am opposed to the renovation for two reasons, one because of the height, it's already over height, and adding decks would make it even higher. There are only two buildings that are as high, and one of them is the Prince Building, which has been there since forever and a day, and another tall building at the end of the block. The second reason is that once this goes to a residential zoning, then the parking is going to become even worse. That means that there are not enough parking spaces for residents in North End, and add those many residences without any parking, which just make it more difficult for people to live in the neighborhood. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The applicant, thank you for responding to those comments. Thank you, Madam Chair. On the point, so we're not making the building higher, the roof decks repurposed, pushed away from the center, or from the pitch of the front of the building, so they would not be visible in the area of view, and you'll see that whole area, there's a number of buildings that have roof decks, these common roof decks, they're only exclusive to those two units, and it just gives, because there's really no rear yard or usable space. It just gives the opportunity for those top units to have a little bit of outdoor space that the largest units, which everyone seemed to like during the process. John the parking, obviously we're not able to create new parking, we're keeping the building. There is no parking in and around that area in terms of other buildings, really having parking. Having said that, there is what's nice about this location, is we have directly across the street on commercial, a wharf and commercial street from one of the larger parking facilities, and then probably 100 or 200 feet down from us is another parking garage, which is actually a good thing for this area. But again, not able to create parking, but there's an argument I would say that could be made that with that many office spaces, there might be more congestion with employees for each building and there could be less with having folks that are residents that are moving in, that are now aware that from the beginning, they're not gonna have the ability to have parking, and they're either gonna rent a space or they're gonna use public transportation. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Emotion. I'll make a move to approve. Mr. Erseckis. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bervazza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Conato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Mr. Cunato. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Adon. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have Casey B.O.A. 173-023-0 with the adios of three to seven peasants street. If the applicant can handle their representative or president, what they've told us is five. The Z. Endicott. Are you that? Yes, I am. Okay. Please identify yourself and proceed. Good morning, Madam Chair and ladies and gentlemen. The board. My name is Zach Riehndicka and I am the project manager for three through seven Eden Street in Charlestown. We will be combining two adjacent lots at the corner of Eden Street and Main Street. One of the loss currently consists of a two-family home and the adjacent lot is vacant. The existing two-family home will be expanded vertically to be consistent with the high-end style of the other homes on this block. Two of which our team has already redeveloped in recent years with great acceptance and appreciation from the abutters in the community as a whole. The existing building is currently a two and a half story home that is greatly and need of an upgrade. Our director butters have voiced their extreme pleasure in our redevelopment design and are truly eager to have this building brought back to life. In doing so, we will be adding some square footers as well as numerous bedrooms to accommodate the ever growing need of families in the area. The adjacent lot will become a potentially attached single-family home with a garage parking space on the ground level. It will also include four additional bedrooms and expanding the square footage of the newly combined lots and the construction of the adjacent third unit. We will trigger two violations which we hope to receive relief from the board for today. The first being the four area ratio which will be slightly exceeded as the resulting three family will be just about 800 square feet over the allowable livable space as each of the three units will be just over 2000 square feet. The second violation is the rear yard setback which will be triggered by the construction of the attached single family. We feel that this is necessary in order to allow enough room to provide the parking on the ground level. Also the rear of the property only about the large parking lot. The 16th of the rear setback doesn't have a really encroaching well being of any of the neighbors. In addition to that there is a large recently renovated park directly across the street which provides ample outdoor green space to current and future residents. Questions from the board? Can you, the planning department's recommendations and can you state to sort of design the neighborhood design overlay district and how your project sort of has thought about that? Yes, so we did meet with the neighborhood. We had a new boaters meeting. We discussed with everybody that was in attendance. We shared with them the design. Like I said, we did do two other houses on the street so we kind of try to keep the design consistent with the rest of the neighborhood. I actually live in the neighborhood myself. My entire family lives there and we've done several of these projects within the neighborhood. We have a pretty good understanding of what the neighborhood wants to see there and the type of people that will be the end users of this type of structure. So we really, you've given a lot of thought to that. The recommendation was about preservation of this. Apparently it's a green revival structure. I guess this morning we were made aware that the preservation society I guess issued a letter but they never saw us out until this morning was the first time that we've heard of it. So I mean, we've been going through the community process for about two and a half months and we've never heard one thing from them about their recommendations. So this was kind of news to us today. I mean, have we met with them? I guess everybody could solve with them all this stuff. But they didn't really make their opinions now. And so I guess I found out about that. It's on the clock this morning. So Mr. Mingon, can you take us to a slide that shows us the exterior of the apartment? And they say Mr. Hampton is on as well. Yeah, Mr. Hampton is on the way. Can you let the ambassador know where? What's life? We could see the existing conditions. You want to see the existing conditions? Yes, they already think that shows us. Yes. I want to see what it's got to look like, but yeah, we can do it before and after. Just think conditions side is it's a 100. But any photographic images? I don't notice the city photograph. I just have like the renderings from the old town. It's on a 100. I think if you scroll up a bit, it's right there. So that's kind of the existing structure that's there. And then if you scroll down off the bat to page, you'll be able to see what the new structure will look like in the front facade there. Like I said, I mean, I think it's very consistent with the other structures that we see in Charlestown. And the other structures that we see on that street in particular. What's the existing material of the, is it the shingles? Yes, I believe it is. Is it green? Or a clapboard, I think it is. What color is it, did you say? Yeah, what color is it right now? I mean, it's looking at images online. It's pretty decayed right now. It's maybe like a beige color. Okay, but it's kind of like shingled, right? I'm not sure it's shingled or it's like... I think what's difficult is that you don't have any kind of existing photos. Yeah, I mean. And of the house, right? So that you want to demolish. I mean, I don't necessarily want to demolish the house. I mean, I understand it's going to look a lot different. But I don't want to demolish the house. I just kind of want to give it a facelift, basically. It's still okay. Okay, this is the project proposal to combine to the lots of demolish. There's no demolish. You're not blaming. The demolish is just a thing in it. Okay. So you're not demolishing it. You're... No, we're not demolishing it. I need to add it to it. You're adding to the right. Essentially what we're doing is we're taking what's there. We're going out the level on it. We're keeping the existing footprint, the existing house. We're not changing that. And then we're adding to that essentially a single family attached townhouse next to it. Right. Yeah, no. When we do that, it made sense to move like the door over to the left side where now you see the door in the middle. So that the stairways are kind of connected to each other on either sides. So that, you know, you know, you know, you know, have windows and like the stairways. So you have actually more light coming into both the sides of the building. But you're going to be stripping the whole building because it has a completely different facade. Like it has a new door entry. It has larger windows. You're almost stripping it completely. It will look different. Yes. I'm I gave that. Do you want me to try to share a picture of the house with... No, I mean, I have your drawing. I'm trying to understand. I'm trying to understand the BPD's concerned regarding the house. You know, it doesn't have historic. It is under the Charlottes town design guidelines. But the house itself is not a historic structure. Right. Made Son and know like how that works exactly, I guess. Mr. Henton, are you on to way out? Yeah. I'm on the way. Basically, just needs a designer view. Well, I think there are a couple of issues with this, this bed of a rather one in the preservation society. It's waiting. I don't know what that is. If that only came in this morning. So I don't know if they are seeking to meet with the appellant on this because they may have some of the same concerns we do. We're not opposed to the project. We're opposed to, you know, how much of this house is going the way. Right. So, you know, is it being demolished? Is it being renovated? We have conflicting wording on a lot of material that we have. And because it's so old, you know, it's over 50 years old, it would be subject demolitionfully. So we're not opposed to the project. We'd love to see the, you know, additions to the original house and have it be upgraded. But we have conflicting information on, is it being demolished? Is it being renovated? So, you know, I don't know if I just don't know what the preservation society is waiting on this and whether or not they want to have some sort of meeting. We prefer to see the original structure remain and, you know, have designed reviewed through, you know, the alteration of the structure. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Board Members. Sigi Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Petition are completed though and has community process. Our office is listed on the button's meeting on June 3rd at which there was one supporter and no concerns were raised. Our office has received one letter of opposition from the Charlestown Preservation Society which noted a concern related to the neighborhood design overlay district. The society believes that the proposal represents a functional demolition of the structure and undermines the character of the neighborhood that neighborhood design overlays armament to preserve. With that background, our office differs judgment to the board and that letter has been forwarded to the board on the 24th of July. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead, Madam Chair and Board Members. The board, Governor Mears from behalf of the Boston City Council, Governor McCoy, the support of the office at this time we have the Council. We would like to go on the record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. We have Anna Calderon. Good afternoon, everyone. Anna Calderon from Councillor A large hand. We sometimes office. The councilor would like to go on frequent support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And next, we have to work Anthony Gilardi. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Members of the board. I get the Gilardi from City Council and the office of the council would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. And the last one, Juliet. Hi, I'm a neighbor of this property and I've seen the work that they've done on a couple other properties right nearby and the quality is exceptional. We fully support this project. Thank you. Any other raise plans? Thank you. There is one. I don't think that there for this case. So there are no additional comments. Yeah, we have one more. Can you deliver? Hello. Can I be here? Yes, we can. Hi, I'm Katie Lieber. I also live in the neighborhood and I have seen also seen the other work that the endocuts have done. The house isn't severe, does prepare. It's falling apart. We can see bricks falling out from underneath it and it would be a welcome to have something that looks more like the neighborhood and is livable because currently the people who have run to move out within a month. Thank you. Okay, there is one person in the 10th section. Don't you? I don't know if you are. Yes, hi. I'm Delieber. That was my wife, Katie Lieber, our family lives there. I'd just like to echo her comments that the building has been. It's really nothing. It's there to be saved in my opinion. It is literally collapsing onto our driveway. Bricks are falling out from underneath it. The front area is so degraded down that I don't know how you would save it, but I know how great the endocuts are. I know that they'll do an amazing job and preserve as much as they can. So I strongly support it. Thank you. So there are no additional comments now. Thank you. I have an additional question for Jeff Hampton. Jeff, the BPDA states that because it's in a neighborhood design or really district that a complete design review needs to occur. Is the design review led by your department? Yes. Yes. Okay. Then I have a recommendation. Okay. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to make a recommendation that the project is a motion to approve the project with a proviso. That the project undergoes BPD design review, paying closely attention to the neighborhood design or the district guidelines, which has requirements regarding the preservation of a six instructor and to kind of work with the applicant. And what is financially possible in consultations with necessary associations to make the, sorry, this kind of provides us for a long. Let me redo this. I'd like to offer a motion of approval that with a, with a provider that it undergoes BPD design review to look at the neighborhood design or lay district and make recommendations for the exterior of the building. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. Mr. Brasov. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Kanago. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good morning. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 171-9788, which the address is 24 Washington Street. It's the applicant and or the representative of President. What they please, clients of the board. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Lisa gentlemen. I'm Jay Eigerman of the law firm of Rubin, Jr. St. Rose. Well, with me is Project Architect, Artanian Brown of Embark. I'll turn it over to him in a minute. Also on the line is Chris Jamison, who owns the property and proposes to build a single family home here. This site, if you could go to the third slide, please. I'll show you the site plan and zoom in. Is a corner lot. It's still subject to the old Charlestown urban renewal plan. There is the PD design review and we will be entering into a land disposition agreement because the urban renewal plan has been extended in other two years. But you'll see there is no existing building on the site. The original LDA land disposition agreement was for parking and recreational space. So the rectangle that you see running on Arrow Street is a gravel parking lot. So historically since the 1970s, there were three cars private parking at this location. And there's one residence, a butting us about six feet from the law line to the west. It's a travel soil site as you can see. So there are going to be four forms of zoning relief that we need. There's a variance for Laudier area where seven square feet short. It's a 2,000 square foot minimum and we come short because of the weird shape by seven square feet. We also need a conditional use permit and for the head house, for the roof deck and darts and we'll tell you about that. We need three out of the four design standards, but a head house requires a conditional use permit if you don't use a hatch. And then there are two variances for parking in the back. Normally in Charlottes Town, you try to have parking from a side lot if it fronts on a street. That's not possible here as you can tell our side lot is way too narrow. It ours is on a rear lot on Arrow Street. And also the width. Normally they try to limit the width to 12 feet. The existing curb cut is the same as that rectangle. It's of course as much wider and we'll be maintaining that so we can get two cars in. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Dartsanian to show you the drawings and the details. Wonderful, Jared. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Dartsanian Brown Architect from Embark. Thank you for having me this afternoon. If you don't mind going to the prior slide would be great. So as Jared mentioned, we're here today with Chris Arclient, who's worked with us to really create something we think is fitting for the neighborhood of Charlottes Town. I'm just standing again to design overlay guidelines for new construction in the neighborhood. Starting on the upper left. This is a view of the proposed home, which is a single family home with a front door off of Washington Street. You can see as you turn the corner and go down left on the lower image, we'll be going down arrow street here working with the topography and the existing large curb cut, which we're looking to narrow up or enter into garage level parking below the residential structure above. As you move to the upper image, you can see the front entry stoop, which is very reminiscent of the character and the quality of the neighborhood. If you don't mind zooming in there for a moment would be appreciated. And I can show you in the upper right image. Just the beautiful thing working with Chris is he's really got an eye for detail. And because this is going to be his private residence, we've been able to bring that richness of brick detailing, use of cladding at these oryled babies, eventually a balcony with very fine metalwork detailing in addition to the style of windows, headers and cells. Thank you. If you don't mind zooming out, I can quickly run through the floor planes. And as we go to the next page, Jacob, this is the existing lot. So if we pop to the one page below, thank you. And zoom in, we have worked with the model alignment along Washington Street. So keeping the front set back to alignment, though zero is allowable. As we turn the corner and come down arrow street, you can see this is where we've pinched up the curve significantly. And we will be improving the existing conditions along that today. It's really kind of an overgrown line with a lot of gravel. We are looking to kind of bring a clean edge to that with a lot of landscape planting, which I'll show you from a landscape architect. And then with the open space, both on the rear of the light and then also on a proposed roof deck. You don't mind zooming out into the next page, please. And as we go, this is a front elevation just really addressing the building height. So compliant with building height. Just small relief needed on a demonetist's headhouse just to get access to roof deck. And then you can see below, Greg, is working with the gray of arrow street to fit the parking below the first floor. Next page, please. And I'll keep this part here. And so coming off the bear street, you can see parking to the two garage spaces. We have access to the rear. You know, my sliding down on the side, please. Working with our landscape architects and Zen really coming up with a robust planting surrounding tire perimeter and also on the open space. And then in addition, coordinated for the street trees with PIC along Washington Street. And just so gracious of data species types really creating a new edge for today. It's really much an overrun plot of it. Now, if you're not going down. Working through the garage finish basement space. Next level, if you don't mind, is really the kitchen and dining level with the front entry off of Washington. And a small deck off of the kitchen. Next level, please. Bedroom level. Three bedrooms on this floor. And then if you go up one more, you can see a next slide, please. You can see just a really small. It's essentially to get a stair in the door through a kind of a clean workgroup way of building access to the roof deck. We have helped the roof, you know, five, at least five feet. We're going to wrap all ages of the property to ensure that it is set back correctly, both from a building code and of disability. And if you go to the next slide, please. This is more of the architectural elevations to supplement the rankings, but just going through not only the building height overall dimensions, but just understanding window types, break detailing to really tie back into a quality building that we're excited to propose in the saber of the trust. Thank you. And with that, I'll turn it back to the board. Thank you. Thank you very much. May I have any questions from the board? So, who has access to this site in the building to park there under the current LDA? Oh, it was under the control of the owner for decades, and there were private leases which had become month to month. Chris James in the owner is online. He's obviously spoken to the last most recent users, and they've moved. Okay, but it was under private ownership. That's not exactly the same thing. Yeah, it was never public. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. I know you're playing on doing some landscaping, but do you have any plants to preserve any of the trees that are already distinct? Yes. Yeah, you're going into our tenure. No, I have to go ahead, Chris. Well, no, we have to go to the Public Improvements Commission, of course. There's one street tree that's on Washington Street, which is overgrown, and it hangs over the lot. So, we have to go to the Parks and Recreation Commission, and the application was already filed, and they'll review our application to replace that tree. But I don't think the existing tree can be saved. My understanding is it has to be replaced. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Public Test warning? Madame Chair and Board Members, so you're also at the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this petitioner completed the OMS community process, or office hosted on a butter's meeting on June 9th, in which a butter's had questions about the traffic impacts of the proposal on arrow street, as well as water runoff, supportive comments were made about the design, no butter stated opposition, or offices received a letter of concern from an butter about potential impacts on the removal of a mature tree. Our offices received one letter of support and one letter of opposition, which have all been forwarded to the board, with that background we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, without the additional comments. Madame Emotion? Madame Chair, I prefer Emotion of Approval with a proviso that the project undergoes BPD design review, just on the site planning to review the width of the curb cut. And this is following that the applicant receives the BPD board recommendations to the existing LDA to enter into a new LDA to allow for residential years. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Steinmeer. Yes. Mr. Steinmeer. Yes. Mr. Bauerzel. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Kovato. Yes. Caravans, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all for your time. Next, we move on to the review discussion scheduled for 130-18. Next, we move on to the review discussion scheduled for 130-18. I remind you that we are a six-member board today, and we'll ask again if there are any request for withdrawals or the curb. We will pass the first three cases, which were referred, and we will go to three companion cases, which are case B-O-A, 16778-81, the address of 155 Princeton Street. Next, we have case B-O-A, 16778-82, with the address of 157-177, but three. And finally case B-O-A, 16778-86, also with the address of 157 Princeton Street. The applicant and ordo representative, who is that representative? Yes, Mr. Steinmeer. Yes, Mr. Steinmeer. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, and members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. I'm a business address of 51 Dobs and Rowe, and with me today, as an Mr. Jacob Levine, who is the architect for the project. First of all, most Madam Chair, as a housekeeping matter, we are going to withdraw the building code appeal as we have consulted with our building code consultant, Doug Anderson, and the building code relief, there's no longer going to be necessary. So we will withdraw the building code relief. Which of the three cases? I think that's at 157. I think it was the last one read into the record. Okay. And so with that, with regards to the project, we're here seeking relief to subdivide the property and change the legal occupancy of 155R, which from a garage to a garage with three residential units. I'm just going to be done by directing a vertical addition on top of the garage. The subdivision places the existing property and to not conform on that one, 57. And that triggers the violations for a lot of areas and FAR, if quite FAR is 1.0, and that will become a 1.2 at 157, with regard to the FAR. Now to 155R, again, we're changing the legal occupancy from the garage to the garage with three residential units above. Heat here, the zoning subdivision, used to be a 3F2 fouls in. It is now the news process zoning it is an EBR3 in which the maximum height allowed is four stories, which we are proposing, and it allows four residential units, but we are proposing three. Here, again, the FAR is a 1.0, it's also 1.2. The side yard and the rear yard violations are pre-existing not conforming conditions. The requirement of side yard is 2.5 feet. We have 1.5, and rear yard yard is a requirement of this 40. Here we have pre-existing of three. I'll turn it over to Jacob Levine, and he can go through the plans and go through the units. Jacob? He may need to be elevated, I don't know. I'm here, Derek. Thank you very much. Jacob Levine, I'm the architect of record, business address 27 Congress, street sale, and MMA for SLHOS group. Today, we are presenting to you the concept of taking this rear garage and adding three units so we can start scrolling through the presentation. Hopefully, there is some architectural prints. It goes through the house. That's it in this PDF. Here we go. What we want to do is build on top of the existing garage and then project forward with a 12-foot overhang that would be supported with columns, preserving the garage to use as parking and then building our units vertically up with an elevator to meet a V-grass and then a roof deck on top. The overall height of the building would be 35 feet and then about 8 feet for the overhouse for the elevator and for the stairs. So, I'm told when we're shooting for about 42 feet, if you keep scrolling through our presentation, you can see the garage is way in the back. It's not very visible from Princeton Street, obviously putting this on top will actually bring a little bit of care to that garage that's back there. The views from that side are pretty fantastic out to Boston. We help to renovate the building you're seeing on the left at 157. The plans are for two bedroom apartments, about 1,500 square feet each. We want to make them as accessible as possible using the elevator. It will be a mirrored plan and all three floors and then a shared roof deck at 925 square feet. That's also usable through the elevator. The site has a slight slope going towards the back. So, the garage door as shown today is not very visible. This is just my report on the project as I saw it. We really want to bring some glass back there and bring in some natural light. The goal of the project is to not bother or interrupt any of the existing views out of the 157 building on the left you see there or the neighbor on the right. The garage is in such a way suited that so far back that we're not going to have any direct neighbors being blocked by this new building. So, at this time, I'm happy to answer any questions for the project. We've been working at this for a few years now and we're very excited about this opportunity to build here in East Boston. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? It looks like you're paving the whole front side of that project. Is there any landscaping or open space? Permable open space. So, in the back of the house, if that site plan is still available, there's a little bit of green space. As the property sits today, you can kind of see this photograph on the screen now. It is currently all paved. We would look at option of doing a permable paper, but the idea of the roof deck is actually to give all three occupants or tenants availability to get some sunlight direct views. I also put some small balconies on the right side, which you can kind of see in the rendering on the right. So, there's a little bit of... I'm working on the zoning requirement of permeable area. The lot of 3% that's in here. Remember, without any reason, in speaking with the audience, do permable papers in the front. That whole front section is going to be permable paid. And then, what about sea level rise elevation? Have you noted that on any of the plants? It's not clear whether any of the proposed living space would be under that sea level elevation. None of it is. That it would be lower that at all. No living space. Were you able to review the BPD's recommendation? Mr. Small? Yes, I was. And then reviewing the... Just so for the record, they recommended denial. I think that in some instances, the BPD's recommendation is not accurate with regard to the maximum height. I know in the EBR-3, the maximum height is four stories. And I reached out to the BPD with regard to a couple of discrepancies within their recommendation. And again, it's allowed to four units are allowed in this area as well, in the EBR-3. So there were some discrepancies to reach out to the BPD with regard to this, but I didn't hear back. Okay. I mean, so the issue that I see just in regards to the character of the neighborhood is that a lot of the structures are a rate in front of the sidewalk, so it's almost like an infill condition. And so I almost feel that it's out of context in regards to my personal feedback in regards to the variance that you're requesting. So to me, it does not fit the character of the neighborhood. I think if you were to do an infill project very similar to what your adjacent structure has because they're almost identical, right? It's like a mirrored image of a three family, right? Because the existing is a three family, right? That's correct. Right, so, but it's a mirror image of the house next to it. You don't, that you don't own. So it almost feels like you're taking an existing footprint, which it almost feels like it makes sense. Oh, you have an existing footprint of a garage. So let's just go up and make it work with the zoning guidelines in regards to density and shape and building, but it doesn't pass, I would say, the context, like, is a contextual. So I would recommend another attempt, probably not a straight to not, because you would have to start over again, but maybe it's really a sliding issue. Like, I would recommend that you look at it as an infill, or potentially as an extension to your existing structure and finding a really good way to provide plucking access to a smaller curb cut for both of those side by side units. So the topology really is an infill that you almost replicate, or you attach to the existing three family. So I think you have to almost start over again. I mean, I will note it's been reviewed and deferred twice already. This case. And that was when you got through work. And we're not just for re-do. I think there's two ways to go about it. One is, you know, do you deny without prejudice and you redo the cyclanning of it, and knowing that we support like the density is just your cyclanning is off. Or do we deny it completely and say you have to start over again? So let me just add with that to your point, there are several other properties in this area with very similar projects where there are houses behind other units and other units behind other houses, such as we are opposing. And I know this, remember, pronoun of your comment with regard to deferrals. We were deferring because we were trying to work out the building code issues, and then we brought on the code consultant to work the elevating issue and on building code issues. That's why the project was deferred twice before. And again, we did work those out, which is why we withdrew the building code violation and the appeal. But there are several other projects, one of the other buildings in the area with regard to having excited buildings behind other buildings in that section of East Boston. I just make a clarification or maybe Madam Chair, Dom, you can clarify. If we deny it, does that mean that they have to come back after a year? That's correct. Yeah, so if you do deny without prejudice, it's making a recommendation that we are in alignment with the densities proposed, but not the cyclanning. So you would have to come back and provide us documentation that you kind of almost started over again, with a new cyclanning strategy. Okay. Other comments or questions? That's it. Thank you. We'll take public testimony and circle back to a motion. And I'm thinking Madam Chair and members of Board for the name of the zone, so representing the mayor's office, state and services regarding 155. Arkansas Street, our office will defer to the fourth schedule on this matter. The community process was conducted, including on a butter's being held on 11 923. And due to the time between the community process and the hearing work, plus my office did request another butter's being it, which was hosted on 4225 and was attended by about six constituents. And the feedback from the meeting was constructive and the applicants seem ready to work and make a blue with his neighbors. The primary feedback from the first meeting was that there was several concerns regarding high density and increased press off parking. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the E. Go Hill neighborhood association, which can be in the round over of 23 and the association has expressed and voted for and support and 30 or 13 in opposition for a garden proposal. And this time the mayor's office and neighborhood services, diverse for the board of judgment on this matter. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair. We don't have additional comments. Okay, with that, we have a motion. Yes, Madam Chair. I'd like to put for a motion, did not without prejudice to provide the advocate an opportunity to potentially explore the idea of an infill condition. Second, again, Mr. Stembridge. No, I think what I can tell the books have been contested with everything else rather exhausted. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Prado. Yes. Chair Rhodes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, members of the board. Madam Chair, on the day. Everyone. The staff, you're with me. The next two cases have been delivered as the public gate. So that takes us to case B.O.A. 170-9052 with the address of 32 Saint St. St. It's the applicant's and the representative of the present. They've been spreading the case and vote. Mr. Marrallon, and we have two cases from our subcommittee hearing. Hi, I think Mr. Marrall is joining shortly. My name is Kyle Olin, and I'm the owner of the property. Okay. Do you want to walk us through it? Thank you. It just took a little bit from me. Analysts to be approved and turn my video on. I appreciate the patients I go on. Cameron Marrall, Boston, Massachusetts 100th St. St. Business Address, along with Kyle Olin, and Jared from the Bill team. Lasting, Halida is also on with us. What you have before you is a greenhouse addition to the roof of this home on St. St. St. Street, which Mr. Olin lives in with David Bedrin. This is a long time coming last part of a major restoration and renovation of this property. And as part of it, they needed access to the roof. And after lengthy discussion with their team and the designers, rather than doing a traditional headhouse, they determined that a greenhouse in that location would be a nice amenity for them. And so, principally, because the greenhouse will provide significant amount of light that will pass through the greenhouse and through a skylight and into the top floor of their residents. There was a significant project as indicated that did not require zoning relief. And as part of that project, they did go through Boston Water and sewer commission and get compliance for their own. And so, I think that's a lot of conservation. I believe that's page 17 of the attachment. We did have an neighborhood process and the butters were contacted and discussed this project both as internally within the process and directly. The principal concern that we received was about impact on birds. The applicant has discussed this with the builder and some manufacturing recommendations and there are decals that can be added to the glass to deter bird conflict. And they're obviously more than willing to do that. There is no roof deck proposed with this project. It is simply a structure above the roofs that back off the street that will provide access to the roof with a small platform as you exit the greenhouse headhouse from this property. And so, the roof is a very large area. It is a very large area. And based on the size of the stairwell and the skylight, there is minimal space up there. There is not going to be any recreational use of this structure on the roof. It is primarily for lighting access. And also, we're more than willing to do a design review as recommended by the planning staff. Thank you. All right. This is the one that I put forward for full hearing and now that Jeff Hampton's on. I would like to ask him a question. Thank you. And I acknowledge the terminology, the solarium greenhouse headhouse was confusing. It's a greenhouse being used as a headhouse. Is Mr. Hampton with us? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Let's do it. Okay. So, Jeff, you know, to me, the design of the project feels like an accessory structure above the roof. It appears to be like a greenhouse versus a small kind of headhouse to provide roof access. What is your kind of position regarding greenhouses, you know, like over kind of almost historic, maestering type of buildings in the neighborhood design or really district? Not the sounds. Disrespectful of what does my opinion be versus what is in the code, you know, right? Well, that's why I guess it's a house or is it a. Yeah, it is. It's, you know, it all there is the roof line, right? Like you can see it, it alters the roof line and it's. If I see as cited in it's a headhouse for lack of a better term. And they're only subject to a conditionally use apartment because it is that. It's in the, you know, the restricted roof structure district of the Fenway is literally three streets, I think, that they just happen to fall limits. So if they were on a park drive, they wouldn't be here right now. But because they're on St. Stephen and, you know, the, the provisions of the restricted roof structure catch this because. Of what, what it is, where it's low, I think this is a design review only in the conditionally use apartment. So I mean, we can work with them. I don't even think it's that big. I think it's what just over 200 square feet. No, I'm talking about the height and where there are. I think the height for that area is 70 feet. 60. I think we remain about seven feet under the maximum height. So they weren't even cited for height variance. So it's just a conditionally use because what the structure is that they are proposing. So, you know, it's. Okay. I don't think I gave you a clear answer in my. What you did because you, you basically said, I as D cited it as a head house. Yeah. And under that is a condition I use permit. And so typically, my concern would have been the visibility from the street. If it's visible. Just because the structure looks so different, then you're kind of historical, all of the nature and building that you see in the area. So I was looking just for context. Okay. That's why you develop zoning codes, right? So that it's along with the character of the area. Any other questions? Hearing done, Mayor. Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board. So you got to with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the LNS community process. Our office hosted on the butter's meeting on May 28th. Multiple directed butter's were in attendance and were supportive. The Fenway Civic Association is also in support of this application. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we know how to do some comments. Well, that may have a motion. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. OK, next up, how many? Please. Which is case, your way. 1 6 9 7 4 9 6 with the address number 12R union app. It's the applicant to enter their representative. What present would they include? What's the question? Hi, my name is Cyril Gorschen. I'm the representative. It's odd because the person who has a name is the representative. It's odd because the principal practitioner is my partner, Shane O'Brien. And he can't be here because of a relastomy if I can work on the nation. So he gave me everything written down. So I'm just going to read it out to you. Yeah. OK, so the thing is, Madam Chair, whoever is doing the slides, could we go to the first page, please? The one with the picture. The top one. No further out. Is that the first page? Oh, I was just looking at the first page. Yes. OK, just never mind. All right, so I'm supposed to read out these things. There are, I think, three variances. The first is a height variance. Apparently, there's 15 feet that's allowed for ADUs. But we're proposing 21 feet. The second is a side yard setback. That is next to the building next was 14 union ad. The setback that is allowed is 10 feet. We're proposing 5 feet. There's a fence there and a parking lot behind the fence. So it's an open space on that side. And the third thing is a rail yard setback. You allow 20 feet. We're proposing 4 feet. Now, beyond that is 3 feet. The property line is a 20 foot tall warehouse. And next to it is a new construction. It's a five story building. It's senior housing, affordable housing. It's, I think, 3371 Washington. That's what there is behind it. Then there's other stuff here about square footage. But I don't want to, like, use up too much of your time. So you can ask me whatever you have to. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Questions from the board? Can you just repeat your variants that you're requesting? Yeah. So there's three. One is apparently the maximum allowable height is 15 feet. We're requesting 21 feet. It's two floors. The second is a side yard setback. We're allowed 10 feet. We're proposing 5. And the third is a rear yard setback. We're allowed 20 feet. We're proposing 4. So this is, and again, Jeff, this is more free to provide just clarity. It seems like they were not cited for a house, a residential unit being built. And a lot behind another structure as a forbidden use. So this seems like it's an allowable use. Can you just confirm that? Well, so here's the thing. I have two different rejection letters for my ASC. Both dated February 4th of 2025. 12, you needed it. And they're both, I wish I could share my screen. But you're going to have to take my word for it. One is 12-hour unit that has the three zoning violations that the appellate has cited. And I also have another letter that our, as you saw in our recommendation, has a few more zoning violations, including two dwellings on the St. Right. And again, dated same date in February, with the same date filed. So I don't know if, I don't know what ISD, the plans examiner over there, they finally. That's why I came to this, this is why when we, when I heard it in the subcommittee, I said, there's something that there's missing information. Yeah, almost. A legal issue for California to address rather than our appeal and our recommendation. Right. It's not in our recommendation, right? So we recommended approval with proviso that they're being built building code, really. Right. But my, yeah, the zoning, I have questions on the zoning because it almost appeared as if this was kind of as a right potentially under ADU. But it almost feels like it goes beyond the ADU because it, you know, one you have, it's over 15 feet, it appears to be a residential unit behind another unit in the same law. So I think if it's, you're right, it's a question for Caroline. So Caroline, can you clarify what the zoning violations are for this particular lot as it relates to zoning issues? I can, but I understand what both of you are saying 100%, but I can only say that whatever was advertised is what I see as the violation for. It might make sense. I hadn't seen the other refusal letter. If we re-advertize it. It looks like maybe the, was the refusal letter was updated like in July? Because perhaps that's what happened, I think. Okay. That's the case and we never received that updated letter. And maybe those three violations go away, but based on, you know, what we had in front of us, you know, there are additional zoning violations. So I think the most updated refusal letter, which I'm sorry it wasn't hard to this, but does have six zoning violations on it. So I think to move forward, we would have to re-advertize and do another hearing on this with all six. Don't make those violations. I agree. I have to come back in place. And I agree with that as well. I agree. And I'm glad that I kicked it back to here because I think, and this is, since we have everyone here, I think the subcommittee should really be for small renovations, modifications, but when there's a lot of variance of being requested, that's when I think it needs to be in front of the full board. So I don't have any further questions and I can, I feel comfortable putting a motion forward. Mr. Newman, were you trying to weigh it on this somehow? Connor? Okay. Well, let's just go through. Is there any public testimony? Madam Chair, we don't have any. Okay. Let's go with the motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of deferral to allow for the re-advertisement and Caroline can recommend a date. Caroline, do you have any? September 9th. Is the submission brought forward for deferred to September 9th? I just want to confirm it works for the applicant. I'm checking right now. Thank you. It's going to be in the morning, yeah, like around this time. It's hard to say. That's fine. That's all right. Okay. I have a motion with the date. Am I supposed to do something or is she supposed to do something? One of you would have to come back and present again. That's fine, but we have to do something in addition to what we've already done. I don't think so, Caroline. No, it's the base staff will re-advertise the newspaper and you just have to come back on the date. And Jeff, would you be able to provide a new planning board recommendation on the case? Sure. If you would like, yes. That would be great. It may not change. It may not change. It's fine. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. I'm going to have a motion. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. I'm sorry. Are we done, Mr. Stembridge? Yes, we are. Okay. See you all next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.