 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I you you you you you you 84 Boston Street that has had two previous administrative deferrals based upon having a five-member board We would move forward with with the motion for reconsideration if we had a six-member board if there is any way of hearing that out of order I I apologize. It's certainly not your fault This is a problem with just the Make up the board in the extent of cases that it's coming before us But we have to call we have to follow the agenda so Like game time decision on that one as well. I will great. Thank you We're gonna call the first case for 1030 calling B.O.A. 1 to be 5 4 0 9 7 139 This is reduced to first floor deck size and anti-second floor deck to the back of the house with spiral staircase The violate with a new accommodate a new deck entry the violation of article 51 section 9 side-dead Intermission article 51 section 9 the Ray ad is into the patient name and address for the record please I am Alex Menter with any DC representing the clients who own at 139 Parsons Street All right, tell us where you're proposing, please So the project is a minor interior the The client known known occupied you know on the second and third floor. They're looking to Demo their existing first floor deck decrease it in size and install a second floor deck So they have e-vests run their second floor to their rear yard The project of our the house as it is is already Within the setback so any work Goes into the setback which is why we're looking for relief We're originally proposed with a spiral staircase and then after review with the neighborhood meeting and association they recommended Going further into the setback and in order to not have a the spiral staircase and have a Traditional staircase on the side which if you go further down should be the amended plans Okay, but you are there's an existing rear deck there Which you were replacing and if anything you're reducing it in size there's an existing first floor rear deck that we're reducing in size There's not currently a second floor deck. No, no, I understand that So my point is that the rear side yard and rear yard violations are pre-existing conditions correct Okay All right Mr. Robinson how are the plans? Well, shoot, that this is gonna be quick So I only have the spiral plans. I do not have the adjusted plans In my pack so I'm unable to review but I don't see any issue with what they're proposing I understand what he's saying so I would be comfortable if we could move forward with I mean we have the incorrect plans that just don't they show the spiral stair Which I'm fine with anyways, but not sure how we want to proceed on that One way to proceed would be to go ahead and act and then hold the hold your stamp until you can look at the The final bronze five. I'm happy with that We can go. Thank you. Yeah, because those should have been so long after the ONS. I just don't have them Okay, okay, we'll figure this out. Go ahead. Yeah, okay, so you can go ahead Anybody any questions on the board Anybody want to testify before or guest? Morning or good afternoon, rather Mr. Chair members of the board Frank Bendoza here Also rightfully is on the mayor's office of neighborhood services Here to report that the having completed their voters meeting in their civic association at this time Our office is aware that the Brighton Austin Improvement Association voted to support the project With the proviso that they not do the spiral staircase previously mentioned as well as a reduction in Dex size with that said as always with the first of the judgment of the board. Thank you That's for me. This is more of a creation council. Braden's office councilor of like the students speak in support of this project. Thank you I ain't about to go ahead Chairman members of the board and about the Gauss and the Brighton Austin Improvement Association would like to go on record and support Thank you No additional raise hand at the moment. All right, she has secretary. Sorry about that. We do have a few letters before we do have one letter of our opposition Just to propose to the project Okay All right, I have a motion and I think I think we can frame the motion in such a way to The deal with the issue of the plans. I'll give it a try. So I'll make a motion to approve um The proposal With the adjusted stair which appears to be more traditional and rectilinear I assume And I will withhold signature until those plans come through the process for final approval And zero sir Uh, portion. Yes, Mr. Regiro. Yep, Mr. Robinson. Yes, Mr. Niano. Yes Mrs. Logan. Yes, I'm in favor as well motion passes I'll call your next case calling the OA 134 1344 635 high-pock avenue Just to take down the existing structure at 635 621 high-pock avenue Tied down existing house at one thousand two Cantiveary Street which is which are in common ownership The buying both lots will create 11,920 square foot lot And erected new mix used building containing 27 units and one commercial storefront The violation's article 67 section 11 the MFR is forbidden and in an NSF district article 67 Ex-section 32 R Street parking is insufficient article 67 63 graphic risen visibility across the corner article 67 section 8 Retail used to be in the two of five thousand sub-district article 67 section 9 of low-daired ratio is excessive article 67 section 9 to build a head successive stories article 67 section 9 to build the head successive and feet article 67 section 9 to front yards and sufficient And article 67 section 9 to ray out the institution name and address for the record I'll do Mr. Chairman Members of the board attorney john Pogini 10th floor through Odin Breentry with me today is Travis Blake who's the architect together with 24 hour with the applicant 635 park have in Rosendale zoning is closed neighborhood shopping in two at five thousand The lot size is just under 12,000 11,000 neither at 20 square feet And it's located at the corner of Cantiveary Street in Hype Park Avenue This is the former eerie pub building which many of you know Since that it housed the Delicius restaurant Which was unsuccessful and ultimately closed several years ago The proposals to erase the existing bar building and condemn single family to the rear which is located at 1,000 to Cantiveary Street that it butts the train tracks both these buildings are in common ownership and construct a new building Intending 27 residential units one level retail space and 14th Street parking spaces internal to the building access top high park gath to left of the building The parking ratios determined by the article 80 process to the bpda Also, there is a a common roof deck that we set back That is access to stairs and a head house as far as violations that one of the violations which I'm a support you read out Under neighbor shopping that is Multi-family residential isn't allowed use in the neighbor shopping. That's a mistake on ISD So we have lost reparking In this district you have two we're proposing 14 use Multi-family residential and retail are not allowed in a two-family district The entrance and most of the building is in the NS district which the uses are allowed FER Allowed is one with 2.26 height Allowed is three storage 35 feet with four storage 42 feet Front yard is 10 feet existing front yard is zero We pulled that back to widen the sidewalks for a five feet three and a half feet And rarion is 10 feet we're at 13 feet so there's no violation there As far as the unit program our first low retail is 914 square feet on the first low we have bike storage and bike repair That is 533 three square feet. There are 18 one bedroom units where the average size is 663 63 square feet 92 bedroom units and average size of 887 square feet This proposal went to an onical aid process and was approved by the bpda board on June 16 We've worked extensively with the bpda btd traffic engineers and the public approval commission is part of the work The developer has agreed to install additional carbon widen sidewalks and create shorted crosswalks To traverse high park avenue Additionally this proposal far exceeds the affordability climate as will contribute approximately 19% of photo will be a five units which will be three two bed units and two one bed units We want to give good community process and slide the board with 30 Let us is supporting including support from the district counselor as well as the state representative And we're all here to answer any questions Sorry if I spoke quickly Yeah, we're very grateful you spoke with me So um Okay, so this is a pretty dense You're pretty much covering the entire lot And these are relatively small units is was there A particular rationale in designing such small units? Ah yes, they were because of the Demographic demographic of the people that they thought would by here would be skewed toward younger MP nesters So that's why they're skewed toward the one bed's in the two bed units Okay, I mean these are these are not micro units and uh, no, they're certainly not no, they're not like but well, well, they're not macro units either Sure Okay Can you explain it once again, but explain the parking Sure, so initially where it's the BPA with my tire parking ratio however Through that process and the fact that this is right on high-park avenue With four bus lines going back and forth to four sales They wanted us to reduce that to a point five parking ratio. So we're just over that It's 27 14 parking spaces Okay All right um and there is a roof deck here, right? There is there's a roof deck that's accessed through it has built the steer and a headhouse. I know your position on that It would be it's where it's a common roof deck. We can't make accessible hatches um, but That's something we can work with the board on All right, I mean there's no elevator in the building is there? There is there is there is yes the building's small elevator and the elevator goes to the roof deck That's one of the reasons the headhouse Okay, so the headhouse so there has to be a headhouse to capture the elevator correct That's correct All right, well that makes a little different All right, how are the drawings Mr. Robinson? drawings are good, you know, I think it is it's a prominent corner and I think it's it's doing a fairly good job Considering the slope of the site as well because it slopes up quite a bit I think with the increased affordability at 19% I think that the project has some some nice aspects to it. So really have no other questions about the proposals Thank you Are these all rantos, Mr. Pogini? Yes, Mr. They are yes, okay, any questions on the board Just a quick question on the affordability. I appreciate the 19% can you talk about the income limits for those affordable units? Absolutely on all those units Our at the 70% A.L. Right. Thank you Okay, does anyone here to speak either for against the project You know she has been a major offensive neighborhood services I know to come from that we did receive all of those letters including the one from the neighborhood association walk a thousand representative Sorry Representative from the North and South well Yes, I think Russell wants to thank you So we didn't receive those they were all in support. I haven't received Any letters of opposition from the community so far And they will like to defer judgment to the board Thank you. Good afternoon, Matt. I'm sure remember the board joining the producer from council or Ricardo or your office Let's go on record and support of this proposal Um As stated 90% affordability Um, it's what we favor. It's sort of place a lonely big commercial building with new housing and high affordability And as stated Steve Rapunzel also supports this project. Thank you Thank you Oh Secretary here we do have a couple of letters of support but we also have one letter of opposition opposed to the problem Hi I'm Adria Nathilo. I live on Aberfield Road Rosadilla lived in Rosadilla over 50 years or so Um, and I drive through this section every day and afternoon going to work and coming from work I think it's about time that we do something with that corner. It I'm really looking forward And I'm in fully support of this project also All right, thank you But I know is it share remember so the ball minor for us her presenting the carpenters union would like to go and represent for this project Thank you It's a chance of the board also because I like like a player. He's not going to go record and support Thanks Cindy go ahead get a last person Um, this is Cindy. You're just from the town of gospel regions office. We also like to move on to put in what the project Thank you I think we have an operator here last person um, can you I am Alfredo of the lot of six forty-eight park ab I've been here for over 30 years Uh, I'm in great support of the project. I think we need to change on that corner Um, I agree with the other person I've been on I'm in support of the project and I think it's a great idea. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Do I have a motion? Please I'll make a motion to approve with bpda design review Okay Mr. Fortune. Yes, Mr. Geron. Yes, Mr. Robinson. Yes Miss Pinyato. Yes, Ms. Lowe Yes, and I do them in favor of the motion passes Thank you everybody following the next case calling the away 129 5799 63 Waldex Street It's a proposed 15-rare edition We're going to figure out what that means The violations article 65 section 9 foot a ratio is excessive and article 65 section. I am a side-yard is insufficient They may not just so the record please Uh, yes, owner and occupant Jenny Tom yet. Can you agree? We uh on the proposed purpose. It says proposed 15-rare edition. What is that? Uh 15-rare edition. I'm not sure but the total script for the foot that we have for edition was 1080 uh, script speed Mr. Fortune it's there's a it's a 15 foot edition. It's a 15 foot okay. I thought I didn't know what it meant Just said all right. Thank you. Okay. Can you tell us where you're proposing please? Uh, we're proposing for additional part of the first floor second third floor because my parents are handicapped So we're hoping to have the accessibility for them on the first floor with the bathroom and also Basically for the bathroom the they're living room for them the bedroom the bathroom and Basically more accessible for them on the first floor And then there in the second and third floor is because we have a large family So they usually come visit my parents and they can stay over because they live far from out of state Which is in Texas California So we would like to have more space basically for the family Okay, so we're talking about a three story 15 foot edition. Is that right? I can't I can't tell the drawings. It's a single family. This is three story. Yes Okay, are there any elevations in the drawings? Okay, there we go Okay, this is a three story, but the third floor is set back um Sort of offset three story because of the there's they're adding a Walk like a terrorist walk out to from the third floor to the back on top of the edition Uh, okay. All right now now it's uh, it's very clear Okay, mr mr. Obis and any any thoughts on the drawings? No No questions about the proposed scope. I think it fits with the the neighborhood. It's not it's not Oversizing the house itself or anything that it's I think it works pretty well no questions Okay, and there on the side yard is actually different The condition okay All right, um, any questions in the board Does anyone here to speak either for or guess the project? Yes, mr. Chair members of the board of Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services This time the mayor's office like to refer to the judgment of the board. We held the others meeting for this proposal in January um There were Neighbors were mostly in support. There's one neighbor who uh Who is some concerns regarding potential for being used as secondary bnb, but other neighbors were very supportive of the opportunity for The family to have access to their agent grandparents They also received support from local civic association as well. I would that be part of the board. Thank you Okay, what else It's the chair. I have no way to get them. Okay. Can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD a designer view Thank you Mr. Fortune yes, it's your hero. Yeah, why are you driving them? Yes Miss Pignano yes, miss Low yes, I too am in favor of the motion passes I Call me in a case calling the away 1360 to a five three oh one month earn industry Just to construct a new approximately 75,000 but failed house athletic complex would endure a field tennis courts into a walking track fitness training room classroom events base Just also a cafe without go seating in 45 strip parking space The violation dot go six like great Austria parking facility is located restricted parking overlay district article six section three a the Austrian parking facility located restricted parking parking overlay district is restricted parking district article 65-65-15 silvery parking is consistent is conditional article 65-65-15 community senate is conditional radical 65-65-15 an auditorium is conditional article 65-65-15 the use of the accessory cafeteria take out restaurant is kept as conditional article 65-65-15 the use of outdoor place the recreation for profit is conditional article 65-65-15 the use of private grounds for sports above ground is conditional and article 65-65-16 to dole and hide its excessive Name and address for the record Mr. Chairman members of the board out we were using myself from this this is Eric Thank you Mr. Robinson Morning Mr. Chair members of the board all-bombed-y with gulston stores. I live at 27 Parkton Road Jamaica plain I'm joined to need by Bill Richard with the Martin Richard Foundation who together with the boys and girls Club of Doorchester are the proponents for this project We're also joined this this afternoon by rodeo architects the project architect The proponent is seeking relief associated with the construction of a approximately 75,000 square foot House of the property located at 301 Mount Vernon Avenue and in doorchester The project will contain fitness facilities classrooms a teaching kitchen a cafe without door seating and other amenities and programmable spaces The proponent was selected by the Boston College schools as it designated developer the site an entrance into brownleys establishing site control in March of 2021 which stipulated development with this project The project site is located in the community commercial sub district in the doorchester neighborhood And the proponent is seeking a variance to allow height and excessive 45 feet Various conditional use permits to allow certain project uses and an R pod Conditional use permit for the operation of an off-street parking facility containing 45 surface parking spaces We're also seeking conditional use permit for ancillary parking to allow the parking lot at the project site to be Lused for overflow parking by the neighboring McCormick and Debra schools In March of 2022 the BPDEA voted to approve the project an issue of scoping determined waving further review under article 80 And in June of 2022 the proponent entered into a memorandum of agreement with the BPS Resumed to which the field house will be made available to the McCormick and Debra schools for educational and recreational programming to work during school hours As well as certain nights we can't sit during school breaks Thanking for each time south near as I mentioned the proponent and the project architect are available to discuss any Specific questions aboard math All right, well, thank you very much This is a this proposal so long time coming and I know a lot of work effort has gone into it Just a reminder this is a five-member board at this point with with mr. Raps is recusal, but I assume you are choosing to go ahead Yes, sir. Thank you. Okay Yeah, can we have most of the violations that are involved there are conditional use violations Because of the nature of the project, but it would be helpful to have the architect Walk us through the programming of the the project Sure again, this is Kevin D. Bill principal of a rodeo architects mr. chair and members of the board. I'll try to Sum that up the purpose of the building as a field house for Recreation that really maximizes the potential for this this site to To achieve its its mission there are hard courts Inside the facility Then there's a turf field on the upper level on floor three a second floor, which includes a running track So we're really maximizing the amount of recreation that can happen in this building due to the kind of Asperational sort of aspects of this project. We do want this to be a highly utilized building by the community It's a community asset and the community humanity So the pieces that kind of go along that are conditional uses are are things like that cafeteria Which is is the definition used by zoning that we felt would be appropriate for the cafe that we're providing at the ground floor so that if people are spending a long time here Which we hope they will they'll need that and then it eat There's also an auditorium Which we felt was an health growth of the programming that we did With our youth advisory panel That this is a an athletics forward Project that starts study there The nature of adding an auditorium allows for theater and arts to have a place in this building So it's due to the kind of You know, I guess once in a lifetime aspect of this building we did want to Create an umbrella of a lot of different uses. So we also have bill Richard We could probably talk a little bit about the program because that's actually a very key feature about this About this project Well, welcome mr. Richards For this patient if he must contribute anything But I have two questions in particular one it has to do with access and And who who how do people get access to it who will be who will be able to use it one ages And also what what will be the hour's of operation? I Hope probably defer that question to call there was an MOU with bps That specifies that very issue. Yeah, and in the meantime, I can address that I think buildings have you made a Handless I'm not seeing him listed um So that access to the building will be available during certain school designated time slots to all students of bps and then off school hours the The access will be limited to students who are members of boys and girls called joychester Which I believe Kevin you may correct if I'm wrong here that any Boston public school student can become a member of boys and girls cup of doors. Just for just a dollar Five dollars a year. I was here. So so um, so Membership is not required to access or school sanctioned events that are run through the McCormick or Debra schools But for kids that do want to use the afterschool programming or or weekend programming that's available The very four-able membership to boys and girls cup doorchester is available So that school thank you to answer all the during school hours So they're they're not necessarily just from school hours Presuming to the MOU that there's designated time during each school day But there's also a system for allocating certain time during the evenings The weekends and school vacation time that the schools and the boys girls cup of doorchester We'll all be by programming so For example, um, if there were to be a sports event after school hours The school uh in the beginning of the year can can designate certain times That the facilities will be available for exclusive school use All school students can come over during those times um and use the facility for those purposes And are there age limits for uh for use and access? Um That I believe the membership is limited to um Under 18 but that that would really be a question for um Bob Scano the president of boys girls come with doorchester There's no age limit for use during school sanctions event so if there's a student who is above the age limit That's coming With the schools that there's no limit there. I just don't know if there's a maximum in age for the membership in the boys girls cup of doorchester Okay, it's it's really um due to the the process that we've involved um and sort of referencing that that wide umbrella Uh the harbor point community Um nearby neighbors other neighborhoods um will have access to this building is a low barrier of entry So in fact, we do believe that seniors will Um want and have access to this do the walking track and the ability to get access there Was it um another sort of aspect of our program is the inclusion um the the fact that um We are really making concerted efforts for people with physical and neurological difficulties to to have programs here Another reason why a lot of the program sort of started to Take on what we're calling wraparound services to this uh kind of magnet of a building So the elevator access and the easy access to all levels um it is overtly an inclusive and accessible um building Um, I see that uh bill Richard requested to be a panelist can he be made a panelist so he can uh contribute to the conversation I think I made me now You are bill okay Right Well, you know a lot of lots of been said since I was going to try to answer some questions But you know, I try not to think of this in like the traditional club model You know in terms of age limits and things like this think of this as like a as a space that you might know of and you know Uh out in suburbs where sure during the school year the thousand kids next door to the McCormick and the Device School are gonna have incredible access to this as will other kids for bps But in evenings and weekends it's going to be open. It's going to be open for Everything from our challenges sports and and and use for cheese sports with kids with developmental and physical disabilities But also a you basketball and weekends and tournaments and that sort of thing so uh It's while there'll be a membership model because that's how the club works in terms of membership model It's not a it's not a it's not a membership model like the The club currently operates on D.I. Street or clubs of Boston or the West End House or model It's just going to be more more open than that you know You won't be required to have a membership card to get in but membership kind of like the you know The commercial says will have probably certain privileges. I suppose if you are a member and they'd be very little Reason not to become a member, but it's not going to be a requirement This is not your typical Boys and girls club model facility Again to give it more similar facilities out in suburbs where where you go for for team play and that's one thing But but we're doing a lot more here with the with the the flex space is and the You know the enrichment services and Kevin mentioned the wraparound services You know we're gonna have health services for kids social services for kids. We have counseling space set aside We have quiet space set aside for parents who have Who have kids who are dealing with autism? Kids with autism. We know Don't particularly Always like that the loud sounds coming from from a busy basketball court, right? So we've kind of taken a lot of these things in the consideration and really trying to offer something where everyone Take it'll be a great Problem will not be lack of access but That you're gonna have an overabundance of people are gonna want to use facility Think that's why 75,000 square feet. I suppose right Okay, any questions in the board All right, let's take testimony for again since this is a pretty exciting project Yes, mr. Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services The community including the Columbia Savin Hill civic association have been full support of the Since it was first filed September of 2021 and the big board voter to approve and march this time our office would like to go on record and support this proposal. Thank you Mr chair members of the board German atman city council frame bakers office. We'd like to go on record in this support on this We'd like to go record and support strong support Thank you Hmm, but after whom is the chair? Remember so the board mine up arrest her present in the carpenters you need and behalf of hundreds of our members a living work for a city Postal we into siastically like to go and record and support of this project Thank you mr. Chair members of the board pass all of them because I like like a boring Chair of no additional way Okay Motion I'll make a motion or approve of the committee No second emotion the secretary All right, mr. Fortune yes, mr. Jero yes Miss minnardo yes, miss Lohm yes And I am enthusiastic yes as well motion passes Thank you very much, but look thank you very much Calling an x-case calling B.O.A. 134-574-17 chestnut street This is a total building renovation expand living space into the basement and fifth floor The violation of article 15 section 15-1 the floor of the erasure was excessive Even add this for the record please John Moran elpine advisory services that the mail in your dress of 130 beach road all lanes Uh, mr. chair. This is a building located in a two h2 65 zone district on the high side of chestnut street in beacon hill It has gone through a very thorough community process and was amended twice Initially we were proposing a change of occupancy to work to family dwelling which the community had some concerns about And it reverted back to a single family you were expressed opposition to a proposed Hatch roof headhouse for access to utilities that was removed and accessance provided from a sloping roof line The only expansion of living space occurs in the basement Uh, fan that requires a digging excavation of approximately two feet four and three quarters inches resulting in a proposed height of eight feet 11 inches the site is not in and eat A cheap or district it is high on the hill The FAR is true the existing FAR is 4.68 and the proposed FAR is 5.23 there are no proposed bedrooms in the basement So there are five proposed bedrooms in the in the home Which actually is a reduction from the existing bedroom count of eight What is proposed for the basement is a fitness room den storage in utilities Okay, thank you I'm curious as to why you think down two seats to get that being 11 is a pretty high-see a high ceiling height The existing is in six feet six and a quarter eight eleven is to since it is a fitness room there would be equipment that would be higher than normal Okay Okay, um, and this is a single family home yes And it had eight bedrooms yes Unusual But I cited because we are reducing bedrooms to five. I know I understand that but I most single family homes don't have eight bedrooms That's I'm just one I'm wondering whether it was in fact used as a Conventional single family home or whether you sure it was the Residence of the rupture of a local church Okay, okay, that makes more sense All right Mr. Robinson how are the plans? Clans are good no questions the lower level is below grade, but they are digging it out And there is no bedrooms called out so really no questions from me Then the hatches confirmed on the roof as well. So nothing from beyond this And any any questions in the board Any testimony from the public Hello, mr. Chair members of the board at this time or my view and score from the mayor's office of neighborhood services at this time Our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board We held and a butter is meeting in august where a direct-about our voice concerns about the work in the basement Underwriting the foundation of his home But the applicant has since worked with him and he seems satisfied with the insurance certificate that they provided This also met with the Beacon House of Association twice once in august and once October and they stand in non-opposition to this project And our office has received one letter in support of this project Mr. Chair we do have some letters of support So Chair I have no way to answer all right. Can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve It's okay All right, mr. Fortune. Yes, mr. Jarrow Mr. Jarrow. Yes, yes, sorry, sorry mr. Robinson. Yes, miss Pignato. Yes, miss log I'm in favor as well the motion passes Mr. Chair I would like to thank you and the members of the board for your service over the years. It's always gonna pleasure To appear before the board. Thank you. Thank you, mr. Aran Thank you colonic colonic case colon B.O.A. 1346466 73 green street This is a gut renovation interior exterior down to frame and foundation The 300 square foot addition The violations article 62 sex and 19 neighborhood design overlay district change and pipe the profile of the room article 62 section 25 through structure restrictions and article 62 section 8 to really add is insufficient name and address for the record please Hello, my name is sorry, there is building code. Yeah Sorry Let's study three green street This is the violation of the ninth edition 780 cmr our 311 the beans of egress 70 70 cmr at 311.1 unit two only has one beans of egress name and address for the record please Hello all of the child's I'm the contractor With downtown Arbys LLC. I'm also the 50% owner On this property We're looking to Okay, mr. Childs were when we have a building called violation We usually deal with that first so can you tell us what what is triggering that violation For the egress We're talking about can you say more So we don't have a secondary egress for the upper unit And we would like to Uh tend to that by putting in a two inch line for permanent sprinklers um in the building Just because we're trying to make as much use as the space as possible and a secondary egress take up a big chunk of the uh Or already narrowed part of the back of the building Mr. Robinson you see any way to to accommodate the car I mean, I think there should be This is a gut renovation and you know, I don't think From at least from my perspective, I guess as the representative of the board I don't I'm not sure we should be weighing in on this. I think this should be deferred to the state um In terms of the second means they might grant this but I think there's nuances in the code that we typically don't tackle Especially as it relates to the second means of egress from a unit um so i would probably michael reclamation to deny the building code and then i guess we could listen to the um zoning case which i don't have a problem with and i'm Got problem with the proposal in terms of use But i guess then we could potentially make that approved with no building code relief and then they would have to go get it Themselves, I think i'm trying to talk through this out loud. Yeah, no, no What you what you're what you're describing thinking out loud is exactly the The procedure that this board has adopted over the years. Okay, which is um that we would deny the the request for relief and Recommend that the applicant go to the state to get Relief there to see if they can get that because that's more that's a more appropriate venue So i'll make a motion for denial of the building code request is there a second second mr. Fortune Yes, mr. Regiro Yes, mr. Robinson yes, mr. Niano yes Miss. Love yes, and i'm an agreement so now let's Tell us what you go ahead and tell us what you're proposing for the uh Brother the gut renovation and what zoning violations of triggers Um, so it's a two family want to keep it too family but uh, you know condo make them condominiums um the addition is just to really um it It currently doesn't really meet modern living expectations so we just wanted to Make the middle and the back Just a little wider to accommodate a thought plan that we feel is appropriate To families The roof profile We'd like you know make a the classic flat roof as you can see that that In keeping with a lot of other buildings on the street Um, and of course the uh the issue is the outdoor space that um That it violates so there's um it was existing as 678 350 unit We'll be left with 404 Uh with the proposed Um, and deep hoping to make up the outdoor space Or close to it with the roof decks Okay, um, so the new flat roof that you're proposing is how much higher than the existing uh roof Uh, I do believe it's just under four foot Uh Okay, and you will access the roof deck from a spiral staircase in the rear from a uh a deck on the third floor correct Okay All right, and what is the uh what's the given with the addition? What is the rear yard setback The rear yard setback is um um It's existing. They're not actually extending the addition further mark the um It's I think it's staying the same. It's they're just making a little bit wider toward the side yard But not extending further. It's already I think it's already basically zero. I think it goes all the way to the rear Front okay, okay All right Uh, uh, Mr. Robinson how are the drawings otherwise? The drawings for Uh Renovation are fine. No questions. Uh besides us are very discussed Okay, any uh any questions to the board Is anyone here in testify for against the proposal? Yes, Mr. Chairman, there's the board Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services We don't have a lot of information on this proposal as I mentioned before we've had some personnel changes My brother's meeting was held on July 27 and from no to say did seem that the meeting was it's very positive You don't have anything on file if any neighborhood concerns without the purchase of the board. Thank you Anybody else? Mr. Chair, I have no room since Okay, uh can I have a motion please? Sure. I'll make a motion to approve Uh with bpda design review and no building code relief Thank you Mr. Forchard yes, Mr. Zero yes, the Robinson yes We're getting out of yes, miss log yes, and I'm two in favor so the motion is faster that provides oh Calling the next case calling the LA 1390679 112 white street It's a record addition and change our six-unit residential dwelling with group that six-pacet state The violation of article 53 section 8 MFRs have been used in a 3F-2000 sub-division article 53 section 56 out three-pacet article 27 T-5 east bar and iPod article 253 section 90 additional law of areas of vision article 53 section 9 of linear age ratio is excessive Not 53 section 9 the radiated fish name and address for the record plate Graph to name Mr. Chairman members of the board Richard lens 245 Sumner Street Peace Boston on the air on behalf of the petitioner. I believe we have William Lee from Monty Friends Design Studio on with us as well if he could be elevated to a panelist Mr. Chairman this project Involves a pre-existing three-in-a-dwelling and the historic section of the Eagle Hill neighborhood The rendering that you're looking at is obviously the proposed finished product, but if we jump down to um, I believe a slide five we can show the existing conditions um, our goal here is to preserve the existing structure that sits on the site The site is uh 6250 square feet. Go next likely 60 about 6200 to uh, maybe just one more slide for Uh looking for a little further down You might have been back might have been back around slide five-hour call Just looking for a new context. So as a 6250 square foot uh, a lot Mr. Chairman located a 3F 2000 district It's essentially what would be considering a double lot for this district I actually almost a triple lot because uh the minimum lot size is 2000 square feet We are proposing to take the existing three-in-a-dwelling Perform a complete renovation as well as Restoration consistent with the Eagle Hill standards for this neighborhood and change the eye groups to the six units But we'd point out that this lot could accommodate two three family dwellings on the site based upon both the width As well as the wide area We elected to maintain the existing structure at the request of the community and to Restore it as much as we can back to a condition that we feel Is complementary to the Eagle Hill square With respect to the units we have a mix of ones twos and threes the average unit size overall is about 70 square feet our largest three-bedroom unit is a 1400 square feet and our smallest that one better units are about 685 square feet Uh, by way of relief if you want to jump down to the rendering uh, which I believe is a slide 17 Just so we can show what the finished product will look like and I can always jump back to the plans separately So So respect to the relief that requesting because this would be considering multi-family use We do require relief for use again. However, this does meet Uh, and more than enough last days for two separate three-bedroom dwellings which are allowed in the district We do meet the lot width and lot Frontage requirements and our side yard just set at three and a half feet and nine and a half feet Which is an excess of a two and a half feet that's required Our rear yard does come within a 22 feet of the rear property line However, we have worked closely with Body neighbors to preserve an existing tree that is in the back of the property They have specifically requested that we not remove that tree and we An arborist go over view this and ensure that the tree will not be removed in the back Uh, our flurry ratio the allowable limit is 1.0 or just slightly above that at 1.06 Again, working closely with the Eagle Pacific Association members and direct the butters Uh, the height of our building remains the same. We are currently at about 31 and a half feet The height limit is 35 feet Uh, we maintain that height although we are include roof decks with this project with no headhouse Access last but not least we are proposing six parking spaces Total of eight would be required on the code, but we would be providing one per unit as this is intended for our ownership Um, with that I'm happy to answer any questions or addressing comments from the board So the existing structure is three units That's correct and you are essentially leaving the existing structure the footprint and uh, on change correct The front of the building on mr. Shown. I don't have uh, if you can go back to the earlier slide I think we have existing photos of the neighbor context and the well I'm wondering is if it's the same size Building how do you get six units? Here with three. Okay. Yep So our plan shows we are we are adding the addition to the rear of the existing structure but okay The building stays the same So we I think we can go back to the it should be early on in the presentation page four or five Okay, that that that was so it's it's the rear addition that um how What what is the square footage of the existing structure and what is the square footage of the addition? So the current uh, you have just based on the FAR we're we're about 0.72 FAR Currently movie increasing that up to 1.07 so So the total square footage I could do the math really but I think William Lee is on the call could give us that That was Anyway, but it's just like a 50% increase kind of roughly right? They're about. Yeah, and again, it's uh intended to preserve you know, this I know it's in court for Eagle Hill to preserve the existing structure That's there and then to add The the facade and the rendering looks very nice so I get that Okay, you got six six spaces in the rear All right, how are the drawings mr. Robinson? Uh drawings are good actually no no real questions on the proposal. I do Uh, as soon we should probably have here mr. Hampton they they recommended it now. I'll um on this proposal I believe so I it would be good to hear their position on this but uh, I have no questions Really as it relates to the proposal Okay, well first we'll go to mr. Hampton first any questions from the from the board All right, mr. Hampton you want to let us know what your thoughts are? Oh, yeah, actually we didn't really have a problem with the use It was the parking layout underneath the building that we had a problem with but um It's not so much the use really and we like that the exterior of the building. I we just had a problem with the parking Like access and use or later. Then you broke up the massing out back that it's underneath um, just We actually thought if you put maybe some screening or even in closet they don't it would It would be better from our point of view. I mean, I guess that's Not so much a denial, but maybe something that could be worked with through design review But Yeah, I know when you see denial without prejudice it kind of stands out at you and it's not so much the use It's really the parking situation. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. That's helpful All right, anyone here to testify before or just Yes, an afternoon mr. Chair members of the board. That's how I'm going to do the mayor's office of neighborhood services Um, my predecessor hosted the voters meeting for this project in October 28, 2021 Our voters had concerns regarding the initial number of units that were proposed Uh, the applicant also met with the Eagle Hill Civic Association in January and February of this year The association asked for a reduced number of units the applicant then reduced the unit count 9 to 6 members of the community were happy to see that this design Supports the historic aesthetic of people hill as well as the parking spaces the association ended up voting to oppose the project but the applicant worked with the abutters and Respondents feedback provided during the community meetings for office received two letters and support from directed Watters and at this time our office relates to the project Thank you Thank you Anyone else Mr. Chancellor you have one letter of support Okay, I'm ambassador in the right stance Nope no way can't let the moment Okay motion then I'll make a motion to approve with BPA designer view um then to highlight I think look at the Screening maybe in or the buffering associated with the parking and the rear and see if there's anything that can be done in terms of that Part of the project to be more consistent with the designs Mr. Fortune yes mr. Rudero yes mr. Robinson yes Miss Pignano yes Miss Lowell yeah and I Support as well as the motion passes Thank you probably next case behind the only one three eight seven three four eight 55 Meridian Street Mr. Rector new five story mix used building for three local retail foreign shell units at ground level and 14 residential units above In part of existing passway correction of building the two residential units shall be subject to the city of Boston inclusionary development Violet just so we just are aware of the same as these repetitive. I'm going to do two different zones The optical 2565 putt has the districts They're in two different parcels Article 32 section 4 g-card applicability Article 53 section 12 a height is excessive Article 53 Section 12 the ray odds and sufficient Article 53 section 12 before the ratio is excessive Article 53 section 12 Dimensional regulations due to the local space Article 27 t-5 east Boston i-Pod Article 53 section 56 Oscar Paggy lowly And out of the 53 section 57.2 the conformity would exist in building line Even as for the record plate good afternoon mr. Chairman members of the board Richard Lynch 240 facts on our street piece Boston on behalf of the petitioner Alex Bagel who is with us We do have a g-card on this I'd like to see more the g-card first mr. Seminella you there Yes, mr. Chairman members of the board good afternoon Christian Seminella Boston Rowan across and we have both letters from the app I'm mr. Chair we did not have either letter Okay, but but mr. Seminella you have both letters. I do Okay, I have a motion please Motion approve There's second okay, mr. Fortune yes mr. Gerro. Yeah, mr. Robinson. Yes, Miss Beniano. Yes Miss Lou I'm in favor the that part to prove to our let's go to the marriage of the case Thank you if we get jump to slide four to get a community overview Let's see the context of the area this is perfect perfect place to start so mr. Chair members of the board this property is located just on the outskirts of Babbark square it's within close walking distance probably five minute walk To both central square Which provides a lot of retail and services as well as barracks where which is transportation as you can see I'm surrounded by both institutional as well as government buildings. This is a one-story Commercial space that is located with frontage on both paristry and meridian street My client operates a dental practice which is intended to continue Should the cyphery develop but as you can see with the one story structure it is a little bit uh Different than what's in its media surrounding context we've got a next slide please Uh probably jump to the next slide with the street view as well maybe one more slide So as you can see here the one level building does have a local retail I include it as I said this will Result in an opportunity for mr. Shayne only continuous practice, but also Create residential housing the goal is to create a Trans-an-oriented development for this site and based on the fact of its close proximity to both central and marx square next slide please Again different surrounding context views as you can see off the distance about two sites over the board approved a Similar five-story residential building with ground-level retail this site is located in the neighborhood shopping district So the proposed uses that we are proposing for the site including multi-family residential as well as ground-level commercial are A lot of uses so these are consistent with the zoning current zoning for The sub district that's uh that that will probably lies with the next slide please So at this time I'm going to ask Tim arrange to walk through just quickly the program on the rendering for the building and how they've arrived at the The design for the so Tim if you just walk us through that quickly that'd be great Yes, I think the training is this is our timber engine with a park for the upper So yeah The general mass in the building we kind of picked up from the massing set back in the foot of that property I'm already in that We shouldn't have alluded to So in terms of the time that the massing horizontally we broke the facade into these kind of two main bays that are Kind of typical of the scale of the rest of the street from the tree from maintain that tree from it You got the graph before we have a Macy's exposure was broken there Um, and then at the top at the fourth of the level we do set that 60 to introduce some of the things that those top units and kind of pick up on that date and that was established that See if you prefering it you scroll down with them Uh, so here's just a relation of that purpose on the floor reading street. So the chair relies we have that That masonry bridge we have a metal panel for those main Those primary days and then a kind of perfectly oriented Panel for that top and section to create contrast material Thanks, so this is only the peristry elevation Here that masonry comes off at third level pick up the kind of date of the existing property to the right here And then we have that two story already four each of that of the upper companies and then similar to the front But doing it so I didn't even polish down that we're kind of introducing these Series of days I'd be in the site to Um, I wrote the scale with the link there and that'll be in that same Metal panel as the fun Uh, in terms of the plans you keep scrolling Uh, you could go past this Sorry, so this is the ground floor plan where we are maintaining those three Individual retail uh, this is at the front along Reading street uh, before retail crunching there and then we are introducing the residential lobby and elevator at the rear of the building off There's just kind of the quieter more residential street. We're also showing us small Here for kind of transform utility we will not have any below grade Um utility space here I keep going We've got through four pans here We have a combination of one two and three bed units on the second through four fours there are ten total one bed for an average square foot of seven hundred square feet two beds at eight hundred eighty five square feet and two three beds at a lot of 165 square feet So there's generally three to four units per floor you kind of keep scrolling through the center plans We do have party walk conditions on basically Side that then we have all of our front and jlana teris and For reading because this is basically an integral all around. We're holding the street as you unfold Um On both sides On the roof there's no uh the only root access will be for a tenant equipment. There isn't any shared or private With bags at the roof level so we have a small elevator over on The tentacle equipment for units and then They have access from one of the two stairs I Can just I think he's just the I'm not so so if I can just uh point out for the board of sure the board is aware of planning sposton Uh, I'll let Jeff speak to the bpd is recommendation on this but planning sposton Is identified quarters and boulevards as sort of being the transitional areas into other parts of the neighborhood This lies certainly within the area that um higher density And certainly higher heights as being planned or at least recommended by the bpda as part of planning sposton So we believe our plan is quite consistent with the objectives under the new zoning that is likely to be Recommended shortly from the bpda one of the things I will point out as well is that even though we did Show this project as you know and in the neighborhood shopping sub district Um the neighbor shopping did sub district has very flexible zoning regulations currently in place even though the plan is sposton recommendations are likely to allow you more flexibility There is no minimum lot size in the district no side yard setback The only dimensional control of the rare yard setback of 20 feet because this would be considered a through lot The zoning code does permit a reduction of the rear yard from the 20 feet to actual street model on the rear property line So this is a true through lot condition that we're proposing and that's one of the reasons why we were cited for rear yard And I think that's based more on our exact use of multiple lots So I'm happy to answer any questions from the board. I know Because a limited time here Okay, um, so we're here for so um I don't the only question I have actually is for mr. Hampton Who uh says that there could be no building code relief What is that You What is that referred to I don't know All right, tell him I don't know Generally you don't want any building code really, right? Yeah, yeah, I don't want it Honestly, I don't know what that means. I was going to open you were gonna look past that Sorry, can you speak to the IDP units the size of the units and the affordability sure I believe where proposing these at 70 am I um, we will have based upon the percentage of units so we have Uh, I would suspect one will be a two better and one will be a one better Okay Thank you All right, uh, mr. Robinson Yep, I wasn't sure what the building code is I was wondering if it really the vault or something because that is a To challenge to put a vault on in within a building so I don't say anything, but yeah, it's related to the vault One Only one question I think for the proponent I think the you know the the massing is actually I think Knitted in pretty well in terms of trying to sort of Balance between the two two fronts or two streets um, this isn't this was not a more 80 small project correct this Practice below. It's just one of the threshold diet for teachers I see some of them around floor plain and I guess I just want to make sure that um, and barks very familiar obviously with complete streets and things like that so I just want to make sure Um, there is some other street trees and some other thing that kind of are on the street, but then they go away But I'm hopeful that those setbacks are there to accommodate proper Accessibility, planning zone and sidewalk if not then I think that's something we want to make sure it happens um on this project Okay Good yes Uh, is there anyone here to speak for against the project? Yes, good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board until I have a need to submit the mage office of neighborhood service as bonus hosted in the butters meeting in 2021 Some concerns were voiced regarding density and like barking. They were very little butters in that meeting Uh, the applicant also met with maverick centric neighborhood association they group voted to support the project The members asked to have the mural that is currently on the rear end of the building We preserved either inside in the reception of the building or in a new location So we want to make an emphasis on that um, the neighborhood group also asked for new trees In the front of the building our office received two letters in support one from a direct to butter and the other one from the east Boston email the health center and at this time our office would like to be for judgments of what we do Thank you Thank you, Madame Ambassador, we Mr. Chair and members of the board mine are for us with the carpenter's scene We like to go on record on support of this break Yes I'm having no additional race here at the moment Okay, um, Mr. Lens the that suggestions about landscaping and trees is that something that has been incorporated to the uh, Bosal Sure, I believe that uh, we're going to be subject to designer review any house like that's something I'll detect up in that in that process. Okay. All right, then can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with a bpd design review I think specifically looking at complete streets and the urban public room Derab is um, can I can I think just including a proviso to identify um, whichever units are eventually slightly to be IDP units just in ii sts certificate of occupancy or just We can start a working lady project. Yeah. Yes. So also apt into uh, define the affordable housing IDP units Is there a second? Thank you. All right, Mr. Fortune. Yes, Mr. Ruggiero. Yeah Uh, Mr. Robinson. Yes Most of the night on yes, it is low I don't know if you'll be in favor of the motion passes. We're on to 1130 We've only only a couple hours late Yeah Well, just to remind you I'll leave in at 2 30 case B.O.A. 136724614 Godner Street This is seeking to raise the existing structure and erect a new residential building with 38 units to 25 parking spaces The violation of Article 51 section 8 38 units who bid Article 51 section 9 is sufficient additional lot of air per unit Article 51 section 9 excessive FAR Article 51 section 9 the maximum allow height has been exceeded Article 51 section 9 the number of allow stories has been exceeded Article 51 section 9 is sufficient front yard setback Article 51 section 9 is sufficient rear yard setback Article 51 section 9 is sufficient useable of a base per unit Article 51 section 45 Designed the new ring to a aisle parking design Article 51 section 56 r3 loading is Article 51 section 56 r3 parking Expression and I go 51 section 53 screening and offering Maybe not just for the record please Thank you, Miss Chairman, that was the order. Me Jeff Dragon with Dragon and Tuscano with the business address of a 11 beacon street Air and behalf the petitioner and with me. I have Susan design For the architects on the proposal As was mentioned this project is located at 14 Gardner Street if you could just stand that slide I'm out of the master for one minute And the proposal that you're looking at this is a rendering of the new building This area is surrounded by multi-family residential apartment and condominium complex right now We are seeking a raise two very dated buildings And it's a core chop-up with one building behind another Everything asphalt in the middle We're proposing to raise those structures until wreck the four-story residential building with 38 condominium units and 25 parking spaces This will also include 40 interior bike parking spaces as well in a Bichroom that's accessed directly out from the ground level to Gardner Street Just to point out this project went through extensive community process to get here over two years The car proposal is at 21% affordable On this building and that would be eight affordable units this building will also have a lead gold standard For energy efficiency as well Um the particular building is sick the law is 16,286 square feet Um and the layout the mix of the units we tried to have both family style And a mix of different sizes as we have 10 one bedrooms at seven hundred three square-tier We have a 22 bedrooms at 883 square feet and eight three bedroom units 156 square feet if we go to the next slide Or the in the slide after this just so the boy can see the context right here right now Asphalt it has two Existing driveways one of those will be closed up And now it'll all be accessed through an on through a driveway that leads To a ramp that goes down to underground Some surface level parking And that will have 25 Interior parking spaces as you can see in the next slide everything around On those property is a skill of four stories Um the layout of the floor plan so our lower level as I mentioned would have the underground parking with 25 spaces That would house a trash room sprinkler room And storage area as we go up to the first floor that would house our main entrance male Elevator this building would also have a amenity space with a 444 square foot gym for the building and a 276 square foot conference room or media That would help also house our bike room for 40 bike spaces and eight units And four of those units would have exterior patios We then the second third and fourth floors are all 10 units house and those were all eight of those units each would have balcony space as well If we could just go down to the Last slide will just show the board of better rendering of the exterior and the garage entrance Yeah, after the elevations. Yes. Next slide. Great. Next one. Yep. Right here. Perfect. Thank you That would just show the ramp and garage door that would lead down To the garage level just to go over the violations that were mentioned This use violation. It's a three-up district although All rulings all around us are apartment style So MFR would be use variants additional F-A-O at 2.5 and point eight is what would be allowed Our building height is four store. We're proposing four stories We tried to keep that height as low as we could at 41 feet six inches and what's allowable under the code is 35 For usable open space we do have a 20 foot setback. It'll be green space But what's required is 30 rear yard we're proposing 20 Front yard we would now be modelled to the buildings where our existing buildings are sort of a hodgepodge one behind the other an Asphalt and then our parking spaces as we mentioned we are providing 25 So we would have a parking violation as well This did go before the BBA board was approved back in April of 2022 I can pause to answer Mr. Drego can you remind why is this here for rediscussion just It was a small board Mr. Chairman. Okay, okay, so you took it administrative for all correct. Okay. That's fine. All right Mr. Robinson how are the drawings? drawings are good. I think Really, you know, I do think it's consistent with certainly part of the street and there is some poor story building So I think with the outdoors space and the affordability. I think it makes some sense. I think I do think there could be a little bit more work done on the landscape plan in terms of maybe some trees But that's something we can address for the BBA, but I think in general I feel like the proposal Seems to work fairly well for its specific site Okay, I have questions in the board Well, we've got some background noise if we could get rid of it that would be nice Thank you Anyone here to testify you before our guest proposal Yes, Mr. Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services at this time The Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment from the board. This went through an extensive community process There were some concerns raised from community members We're not happy with with the alleged support track record from the applicant Over there's been a number of changes made to this proposal. They're now up to 21 percent affordability Regarding IDP as well as switch over to condominiums With that the Austin Civic Association decided to go a non-opposition And right now some improvements a right now some improvement association voted to support this proposal How about that would refer to the board. Thank you Mr. Chair secretary here. We also have letters of support Good afternoon. This is more of a page in councilor breeds office the councilor would like to go on record in opposition to this project The opponent owns hundreds of units across Austin and Brighton and the proponent has consistently failed to provide adequate and safe housing to also Brighton residents Or the past 10 years that proponent has received approximately 175 building and property violations and code enforcement violations and this includes 50 such violations in 2022 um For that reason we The counselors proposed to this project We'd also like to add that We have had issues where our project goes to the pga review is approved as a condo and then winds up as rental units after construction. So we are concerned with That happening again and also with a non-compliance in terms of owner occupancy restrictions. Thank you Okay, thank you You raised hands here. Um, start with you Tony Yes, good afternoon, uh, Mr. Chairman members of the board Tony Dissator or representing the Austin Civic Association like to echo all the comments made so far uh this project got off to a work east stop uh in the sense that as uh the councilor's office mentioned uh the uh the proponent that was uh proposing the project and some of the past history uh with with certain members of the association and then we also had some of the older members who objected to the taking down of the two buildings but since it has been changed for under the lead project 21% affordable lead going that helps offer the opposition to the project and therefore uh we're going to defer judgment to the board but to reiterate what the council's office said and this is extremely important and we would appreciate a strong commitment for the proponent on this if it gets approved is that condo darks be filed as soon as the building is uh fully constructed in that the proponent puts all the units up for sale on the public market and that they not be simply uh rented out by the proponent as uh as condo units we we want these to go on the open market we want ownership to change on each of these units and therefore we would appreciate a strong commitment from the proponent to do so okay thank you okay and I'm having the process yes my name is Harry Pitilla I'm the business owner from local community I'm in full support for 14 gardener okay thank you MJ I'm MJ yeah um MJ I live in on garden street I'm in full support of this project I believe it's going to be very conducive to the community not only will there be jobs created uh there are condos going to be created and the neighborhood in the area does need a facelift um Hamilton this project's over 83 gardener I believe also 41 right now it's beautiful the town is lively now there's more community support and there's commercial spaces going up and I'm full support of this project uh being finalized hopefully thank you okay let's go uh John yeah hi how are uh I'm immediate about I'd like to support the project where dire need especially for affordable unit I stressed it we need for order okay and then um if you have an email address here a swni eight can state the name and address for the rest of the plans once I'm muted okay yes my name's Abdullah Sway I'm a neighbor of this project is great what's your answer excuse me what's your address eight you seven how'd we do that okay thank you and um it's it's a great it's a great uh full support of this any project improve the neighborhood and this building is great okay full support all right thank you very much okay that um have some on the panel assign minor and anabelle go ahead we're asking the members to the floor mine up for us representing the carpenter you know one of our record and support of this project thank you I'm sorry fair man members of the board anabelle go to the bright and awesome food and association we'd like to go and recommend support this project has evolved a lot um it is consistent with other projects on the street and it is 21% affordable uh for sale home ownership which is important and it is called a lead certified and speaking to the concerns of the other this project is being sold transfer to home owners which I think is important and it resolves those issues thank you thank you you have one audition I went to the victor I sent a request to unmute you name and address for the left quickly can you speak up the cars yeah okay go ahead you can hear a little better my name is electric fan sayker i'm working on 16 garden street i actually rent a unit practically across from the structure i think that this project is a great idea it's keeping with the current trends going on pretty much all around the Austin city and it'll give a wonderful opportunity for some of these newer generations you know coming into the city to have some home ownership here in the Austin area okay thank you very much that's it for me sir all right can i have a motion please um i'll make a motion to approve with bpa design review i guess i don't know we can add something about the the counter unit say simulars will go um yes no i think we can with an additional provides that the the that we understand that these will be uh the kind of million units okay so i'll make a provide uh sorry bpa design provides though and um the understanding of these will be uh markerate for sale condos um besides obviously the affordable housing and they'll go through their process is there a second second it's a fortune yes it's your zero yep it's mr. Robinson yes yes yes my two-minute support and motion passes thank you very much calling the next two cases calling b o a 129 638 0 49 are in re-roder as a companion case b o a 129 129 638 1 49 in re-roder this is 49 hours in re-roder to confirm existence structure as a abar and it converges to a single family home new dorm or renovate two dwellings structures on the one lot the existing two family no work to be done this is one of two buildings on the same lot the bilay's article 51 6 and 9 open spaces and sufficient article 51 6 and 57.2 existing building line conformity article 51 6 and 57 one building behind one another building on article 51 6 and 57.13 two remote dwellings are the same lot article 51 6 and 9 lot withers and sufficient article 51 6 and 9 lot frontages and sufficient article 51 6 and 9 front yard is in sufficient article 51 6 and 9 side yard of the patient uh 51 6 and 9 the mega is in sufficient this is the 49 in re-roder no work to be done violation article 51 6 and 9 open spaces of suspicion article 51 6 and 57.1 3 through more dwellings of the same lot article 51 6 and 9 lot with sufficient article 51 6 and 9 lot frontage same in address to the record mr. forger my apologies for having you to have to read that all into the record attorney Ryan spits out into the morancy with the business address of 168 eight street south Boston we're going to seek an administrative deferral okay I'll make a motion for the deferral I'll second I'll second I'll second I'll second mr. forger um I'm going to talk to legal counselor do we want to do 15th? I'll talk to legal counselor I have to leave it to 30 I mentioned maybe we can do this on the 15th of uh November instead of each of the new year in January so if the applicant is okay with that we can move this to November 15 yes at 11 30 great great perfect I'm just going to leave a get a roll call on the motion okay sorry mr. forger yes mr. hero yes we're Robinson yes mr. Niano yes this love yes I tune in favor okay we got a date I will going to do 11 15 at 11 30 November 15th 11 30 great thank you anybody else going to move forward on their projects are we gonna I'm gonna get some part of doing as fast as I can it is the ministry going to move forward yes and I'm ready to go okay and the calling next case calling B.O.A. 1334 998 213 18 to 1320 river stream this is a rectate four story mix you structure consists of 30 residential units levels two and four and ground floor coffee shops mall take our restaurant and close ground floor parking for 30 vehicles and stacker parking violation tactical 69 69.5 off three parking design stacker parking article 69 section section 30.2 traffic visibility across the corner article 69 section 29 off three loading loading parking loading article 69 section 29 off three parking and loading parking article 69 section 30.1 conformity sensitive billing alignment article 69 section 8 and mf 1 to 3F this would be an article 69 section 8 small take all restaurants would be an article 69 section 9 floor day ratio is excessive article 69 section 9 to build has accepted stories article 69 section 9 usable from spaces and depression article 69 section 9 to build on high success of feet article 69 section 9 aside the out of the patient article 69 69 to ray out the patient name and address for the record please good afternoon Mr. Chairman members of the bill of attorney John Paul Gino be asked if the apple camp body at the tell with me today is Mike Mark joys and john cell a with a team architects this is 13 18 River Street high park zoning is 3F 4000 this lot size is 10,732 square feet this proposal is located at the former juniors automotive repair building at the corner of River Street and business street the proposal is to raise the existing cement auto building and contract a four story mix used development with 30 residential units and 30 off three parking spaces this proposal is directly adjacent to the high park train station violations we have use mf r and retail in a three F district use retail is forbidden a three F zoning sub district FAR 0.5 allowed where 245 height three stories 35 feet with four stories 44 feet open space side yard this building is surrounded by a brick wall excuse me a concrete wall and that will remain in place of that is existing rear yard the same thing with a concrete wall and parking loading it's two spaces for dwelling in it we're proposing 30 spaces for 30 units the program of the building is three levels of residential each floor is identical nine studios average in size 520 square feet 12 one beds average size approximately 650 square feet and nine two beds average sizes approximately 925 square feet it will be a new retail space located in the first floor that will be approximately 1500 square feet this proposal went to a three and a half year process including an article eight process during which built the bpda in transportation as well as the btd asked the development team to use the pix process to discontinue one side of business street narrow road triangle memorial and increase green space for a public park that was a press in the city and they thought two way traffic on both sides of this triangle with the pedestrian has an especially in light of traffic to the community train into the train station itself again this will create a public green park that is not part of this proposal this park will be three thousand square feet and it's used by everybody additionally we've exceeded the required affordability where designated five units affordable at 17th and that's it if this point I'll turn it over to any questions from the board members yeah just remind mr. jr. mind this why this is here for rediscussion it was another day that we didn't have enough members mr. jr. okay all right that's what I thought all right um talk about the parking uh uh walk to the parking again sure so the parking is located on the first floor it's access off business street so this this project is on the corner of river street and it's right next to the train station um you come in off business street and that will be the access to the parking and it will be one space per unit okay all right and this is stacking there is stack parking yes okay all right thank you can you talk about the affordability for and the type of units for the IDP units very good question so it's a mix so we have two's ones and studios I think we have two ones two studios and one two and seventy percent a line thank you thank you mr. wrong we should have one of the drawings uh drawings are fine no question on the drawing and I think the the change in the public park in the corner it seems great I guess I have one question is just point of interest for actually maybe mr. hampton it seems like a lot of parking at a one-to-one ratio for something that's right across from the train and it's stacker so that's causing issues and cost what do you have a sense of why that ratio is so high I could answer that okay that's fine I mean I know it's okay that's fine it's yeah so we started out with a much less parking ratio you know through the elected as well as the community they felt like at least one-to-one we were a five-floor building we reduced the height for stories with one-to-one parking and they seemed happy with that the park itself as you can see in this illustration that's before you that is nothing to do with our project that will be an open park now that will block one side of business dream because if you can imagine you are the triangle coming down business street with two way traffic on one side of the triangle two way traffic on the other so btd and bpda transportation dot that was a pedestrian hazard so they requested this but again this is a public park that can be used by anybody in high park to add a green space I think it's great I love the park I think it's awesome I just was wondering about the park the ratio no other questions from me okay is anyone here to testify either for our guest proposal yes mr. chairman members of the board Connor newman with the mayor's office neighbor with services this town the mayor is also like to deferred to the judgment of the board this proposal has gone through an extensive community process over three years we're off received a number of letters majority in support we had 30 signatures that were sent to the board for review for this project was deferred back in august also received letters of opposition sent to the board um fried in this review one of which was from a family that lives on business street and proposal as well as the high park name for the association and the group park name for the association um people are very pleased about the proposals I have a public park open to the public however there are concerns regarding how the traffic might be impacted during this construction period the bridge is currently shut down and its replacement will not be open at least until the spring of 2025 there's been concerns that trying to avoid this area and taking clearing street will be will be jammed up this can lead to dangerous situation without me deferred to the board thank you good afternoon chair members of the board Jordan and Freya's here from council of Ricardo Royals office let's go out record and support this proposal um you want to point out the 17 percent of affordability the fact that they worked the community for over three years to reduce the height and floors increase the park into one to one and of course the community benefit of the green space in the formal park so we again we're going to record support of this thank you a couple of ways here um this is sending on it um the system is used I would cancel our illusion which illusions office or like one like I can support the project thank you with minor thank you Madame Ambassador Mr chairman members of the board of minor producer representing the carp interest union on behalf of all of our Boston rice is one going to go and represent support of this project thanks okay we have a lot eight raised hand here on this chair do you want me to stand when I now all right well I'm gonna ask everybody to be extremely quick and just say whether you're support or or pose and and one reason why thank you thank you Martin go ahead and maybe I'm dressing oh hello my name is Lauren Spitty I own 1326 River Street which is a direct a butter um to this project I did send a letter of opposition into the board I don't think it was necessarily mentioned when they were listing it but I wanted to point that out um if you compare with I just literally have seven sentences to through um I do strenuously oppose the height the density and the size of this project if all of the variants as are granted a single structure is going to consume that entire lot edge-to-edge rising four stories it's really important for you to understand that there are four other multi-unit developments on River Street itself between the train station and deadham and every single one is three stories and every single one has frontage with landscaping and it also has setbacks um with no side in setbacks a four-story building directly against the abutting properties balloon significantly large and I know I can speak for myself as well as miss pedalgo on business street side when I say that we are going to lose view we're going to lose light I'm going to lose a very mature and established tree and we're going to lose the consistent residential feel of our neighborhood okay but on one side but what's next yeah Peter I'm sorry I don't have to say my name is for a lucky place oh my name is Peter Uzama and I live at 17 business street just next door to the uh the proposed project and uh I oppose it and I sent a lot out to the uh learning board of Fabules and uh I can't person that who spoke and before me was not mentioned I oppose this project because if my house is just next door to it and and there's the view of my house will be would nobody will see my house from River Street anymore and the traffic is it's going to be too much traffic at this way and and the crime the potential for crime around the area it's going to be too much so that's why you're opposing okay thank you very much thank you all right Pat um Pat my name is Pat Chierney I live at 38 milked an avenue in Hyde Park I have lived here for about 50 years I own a building I'm a commercial landlord in Clarey Square also on a business in Clarey Square very familiar with the area the location is perfect for residential development the park is amazing and we'll suit the members of the community very well it you can almost touch the train station so that we're going to have young people that want to come take the train and it's going to enlighten our business district now my kid thank you thank you 6.7.364 14.45 go ahead can you say your name and address your emergency please thank you Mr. Chair and Board members Craig Martin cold justice street Hyde Park I'll speak on behalf of the Hyde Park neighborhood association because of that instead of six of us repeating it ourselves it'll just be me our main content is closing off that segment of the ending segment of business street the African has been the forward to close that segment of business street and redirected to the other segment of business street however the applicant nor the city of Boston owns that other segment of business street MBTA does what should not be directly city traffic on to privately owned land or to land owned by another part because the potential is that MBTA will expand there's a lot of there for loading of the transportation they'll expand this station or perhaps use that in this parking space parking area for users in that case business street would be closed off and no one can use this a through way okay they didn't speak that's a bad idea okay I think we've heard enough both in favor and in opposition so can I have a motion please Mr. Chair and this is Tom I just wanted to let you know the Mark or Lake Resectary Portrait had to to leave first document so it's a 500 report now okay so I'll also have to get someone to read the projects of the record okay so we're five members so it's has to be unanimous all right can I have a motion please I'll make a motion to approve with continued BPA design review I do think that it would be nice to take a look at the river street side and see if there could be some more relief on that edge I see the building is not perpendicular to this property line which I understand but I think if we can pull that back a little bit and look at that and then I guess my I just want to clarify so this project we are not approving the street closure in the park I don't believe no okay that's correct that's all okay I just want to make sure that was clear to the public because I hear the concern this project can stand alone at least if we vote in favor on without with or without the park that will happen outside of this discussion okay so that that's my motion with BPA design review for the project generally all right okay mr. fortune is gone so mr. hero i mr. Robinson yes mr. Niyado yes misslob yes and i two of them favor the motion passes thank you everybody can I ask no yeah yeah joe well yeah take over yeah i i um i didn't keep track of deferrals yeah maybe all your place has been deferred and so is Webster I think we're on a maverick I believe 273 man so it's easy go so where are you so i'm gonna read it into the racket i'm gonna that precuse myself if you know i know if you were using self we were for member board we can't you can't take action on that unfortunately mr. chairman it's a turning ritual as the racket this is our further deferral because we got a notice issue last time probably did not have a five member board the last the last hearing is it possible just these projects gonna allow us a possible to get a date quicker than the typical January date basically mr. broom so mr. chair we do we can do November 15th there's a seven-member board it's actually the same board as today so so here i want to the recuse but it's also a lighter day so it shouldn't it won't be over burdensome i don't think i and i don't want to overstep it is impossible to be the first case on for research just to make sure we have that so that he will to be advanced to have about that i appreciate a lot missilins i'm and and a happy birthday to mr. chairman i wanted to give back i didn't want to record a question thank you that's uh yeah birthday wishes will be to get this meeting over with right yeah understand uh do we do we do we need to uh do this get read the record and then a deferral i think we can read it yes okay yeah joker yeah well joker is already read it in okay no i didn't calling calling b o a 114 4072 and companion case b o a 114 4075 273 275 279 maverick street i'll make a motion for deferral second uh we'll do we're zero yeah yeah uh Robinson yes can i know yes well and you know in me we uh we all we all go to the fur so so we now have any rehearing how are you guys what was that i'm sorry what was that date mr. chairman i'm mr. bro the number 15 to 11 30 a.m. thank you very much i really appreciate that i'm a great bet all right calling next case b o a 117 3599 5 35 5 37 b Washington street and more 22 uh this is a rehearing of pure oasis to open a recreational cannabis establishment at the above reference vocation both previously denied dissapelled but opposed to reconsidered uh on september 13 after the hearing at of after hearing on the applicant's request one of the terms of the zoning bold cold zone Boston zoning code in the following respects variance conditional use permit and or other relief as appropriate okay uh the on the applicants for pure oasis here is there anybody representing pure oasis here they they're the catalysts here i think you're being eliminated to the panelists okay maybe look he should be i see his name on there that might it's my cross no it's uh they haven't do it certainly it is mr. chairman bangers and encroachment yeah there apologize apologize just a good minute to get elevated um all right mr. president before i get before we start we are unfortunately at this point a five-member board so i know that this is this is a rehearing and you've already gone through the process but i just do want to warn you that uh any motion would have to with required unanimous decision of the five members so again i need to tell you you have the opportunity to uh to choose and demonstrate the for all should you wish understood mr. chairman we appreciate that uh conferred with my client expecting that that might be the case and they've decided to go forward tonight you want to go forward we do okay all right shoot then go go forward uh thank you mr. chairman members of the board uh Brian Grossman about it can do a 200 crossing bill of art sweet 300 framing hand-mastage shoots at 01702 is my business address uh council for hero aces llc the applicant mr. chairman you know that this is up for for reconsiderations i think the board is you're generally familiar with the project i'm happy to go into it that become in-depth description of that but i don't think you need it no i don't think so um it just as a reminder to the the proposed location meets all the buffer zones so there are no variances required it's only a conditional use as the board noted was voted to reconsider the prior denial that happened in july uh primarily based on the motion for reconsideration or request reconsideration submitted by prior council that was based uh primarily on the two two cases that were decided uh one by the schc and one involving the board of appeals um after the decision was rendered in just to highlight a couple issues from those cases that specifically relate here um and how and how this motion for reconsideration or the reconsideration um should be considered and the and the facts in favor of reconsideration and out a positive vote um as the board knows that the focus is the criteria set toward the article six section six three but those findings concerning compliance should be informed by a prior decisions um of the words allow similar establishments with similar facts um in addition other uses that may be permitted by right um that may generate comparable or greater impact um should him also inform the board vision when determining whether a proposed use would have an adverse effect so if there are uses that would generate use significantly more traffic um significantly more parking need um but would be permitted by right with no review would speak in favor of having no adverse impact think in you know in holland brands the court noted um you know a number of others similarly situated retail cannabis facilities that are located near residential uses where there's very little or no parking provided this site does provide four off-street parking spaces and a look for employees it does involve or a loading area that will be off-street um so provide secure loading ensure that there's no truck or delivery truck that is blocking traffic or it was required to take up parking spaces on the street um in addition multiple similar facilities throughout the city have been permitted near residential uses in residential districts um and on this side of Washington street uh as the proposed project mostly commercial as you go you know to the left and to the right of the property poppajans and so once and you have uh restaurants and barbershops on the other we do note there are residential facilities in the area um received opposition from from some of those folks but in terms of its location it's very similar it is similarly situated to a host of other applications that have been moved by the board um in considering effect for those uses that are permitted by right uh there are a number of uses that are permitted by right that would generate comparable traffic and parking demand uh to the uses that are to the use that is proposed uh uses that are similar that would be permitted in the NS1 district include local retail establishments uh banks or even a small takeout restaurant um which the the ordinance defines as a restaurant that's 2500 square feet so it would be even a smaller rest checkout restaurant um as compared to the footprint of of the proposed retail facility okay it should generate the very similar traffic um okay so I mean I so I mean the sequence of events is and you can't please feel free to correct me it came before the board we uh denied it I think largely based on this notion of it was in a heavily trafficked uh business district and there were a lot of opposition and and that was uh I think the logic of the folks who voted uh to deny and then it was been a came uh for reconsideration it was present again and we voted to reconsider it but to what we're doing today but we're essentially a new hearing to reconsider so um I think I want to stay away from the various legal arguments about why it's appropriate to reconsider because we're reconsidering when we're here at that point so I think what we need to do is just summarize again the basic facts about the uh the proposal you know uh the the buffer zone issues near school the the proximity that that kind of stuff and then we'll take testimony and we will reconsider which is what we voted to do okay that's correct that's fair and I it just point out that what I was trying to articulate is not additional reasons for reconsideration which you've already you know agreed to do is that in looking at the criteria and applying the criteria of whether or not um the use is appropriate considering those other issues that I just highlighted um inform that decision as to whether or not the use is okay for I think very briefly and then we certainly move on to the questions but the only other thing I highlight there is is I know it'll have to top the site complies with the required you know setbacks to schools and other other similar uses like the the YMCA so it is only a condition to use permanent it doesn't require variance from those provisions the proposed use will have very similar hours to businesses in the area as a matter of fact in some case that that's significantly lesser hours than others from a parking and traffic standpoint you have expert testimony you know report in the record that demonstrates the Ruby no adverse effects on parking the traffic that the parking inventory is efficient for this kind of for this kind of use and as I noted similar by right uses that wouldn't even have similar and one last thing on traffic is that it'll have no no effect on the level of service you know out near the site the current level service is level B and the proposed use will not change that that level of service okay so um and to answer the questions I asked what's a distance to the nearest school and what's a nearest distance to a comparable business um to the nearest school is I don't know the exact distance to the nearest school it's over 500 two which is the which is the requirement okay in terms of nearest business the nearest business is across the street across Fairbanks to to Papa Johnson's 3040 okay so um I mean I realize that line this on that side of Washington Street okay I mean I realize that there there's been a serious offening of that as an as an issue but I want to ask it in any case okay all right um uh any uh well there's no point really asking Mr. Robinson about the drawings you've already been through this uh any questions in the board about the uh the nature of the business and the issues involved I just I just out of the customers that attend pure oasis is there like um any like your target demographic like geographically like do you expect people to come from water now do you expect it to serve most people in the area yeah just being down along with dispensaries how does that work hi this is um Koby Evans and one of the owners um I think that what the goal of the city is to do is to have a cross section of dispensaries across the city so you're having neighborhood dispensaries so you're alleviating traffic of someone from Austin going to brighten someone from Roxbury want to doorchester the goal is to have at least 52 dispensaries across the city so a debate against traffic and be it makes a convenient for constituents so that they're not traveling outside of it and they're with the old neighborhood dispensary and I think okay is there anything like I'm trying to compare like let's compare to like liquor stores right is there anything with your dispensary that would compare it to like a total wine as opposed to the neighborhood back to straw or is this more like it's your average just yeah it's a level playing field in the end of the day cannabis becomes a commodity it's just you know it's like going to the supermarket for flower you don't necessarily go to cross the town to go get you know for like a better term sugar flower you just watch your neighborhood supermarket or it's corner store wrap flower and go back home okay thank you okay anybody else any any questions all right let's take some on it can there is there anybody here to speak on behalf of the applicant yes mr. chair members of the board of corner they move with the nearest office and neighborhood services at this time and there is office to reiterate his opposition to this proposal as we previously testified there was a lot of concerns expressed from director butters regarding potential for congestion on this very important artery neck to neighborhood with the rest of right and as well as contingent regarding safety the noncourt intersection the way that Langley road was at Washington Street the road also bends into some wine spots well we've received 90 letters in opposition as well as opposition and breakoffs improvement association the local state reps we do also want to recognize so that we have received roughly 200 letters of support in support of this proposal that will provide by the applicant with that we turn it back to the board thank you thank you you hello is this is the member of the marines uh eight you know speak hello there hello can you hear me this is my welcome yes there you go hi this is representative michael man um i've i've been serving this district for approximately 18 years um and i again we're show up at this uh zoning board thank you to the chair and the members of the board but um as as i said this not much has happened and this proposal compared to what happened the last one um and uh the neighborhood is clearly this is something that they're not supporting myself the mayor uh Kevin Bowman um are actively uh against this location it's not that we're against the issue because we have supported other locations in the community it's just this this one in our in our opinion with our expertise does not seem to fit the character of what we would want there as far as traffic flow um and and not being a something that's going to an adverse effect on a community that lives around there so i would hope that the the board would do what they did last time and uh and and reject this uh this proposal because of all the four stated reasons thank you thank you i'm done who's next hello oh yeah William Schupehr um fuck i'm Washington street bright and um i'm how's can you can you hear me yeah go thanks mr. Erick um i'm in the house right next door um 30 inches away um i have expressed all my concerns at the previous meeting where it was so thank and i think if the members look in their files they'll also see documentation i'd provide showing many of the claims euro aces false with um both of the no parking we're going to show that there's parking here as well as uh false time stamps on the photographs if you can go back to that slide also documented if you're looking here files that uh the cases the three cases that they cite that uh were approved they claim that those are exactly like this and that they had less parking whereas i provided documentation in there from public records that that's not the case at all um an ample parking and they have office three parking yes if you go back to that slide because they've downloaded those those photos from google maps and um they're at the bottom three photos are of a no parking zone there's a no parking sign right under the word laundry and i've made a blowup of that in my documentation to you um uh slant cleaners always had a no parking zone there so of course there's no cars there and if you look at the time stamps they they mentioned months they don't mention day those are invented time stamps those are from google maps and if you notice too they all end in a zero or a five so this is misleading they're trying to mislead the board okay okay um uh what we made your point very clearly and i appreciate that um which we want to try to move on and get other people to uh trust and thank you for letting me speak thank you sir thank you mr. erick um my name is Edmund Alcock i am counsel for mr. shakir and actually his brother ed shakir um we submitted a letter in opposition um i think the thing to really point out and and hopefully people look to the letter is at the last hearing pure oasis traffic um uh engineer indicated that they were they expected at least 300 trips a day to this site more than half of which would be by vehicle the concern that we have is the this site backs up to uh residential neighborhoods and and there's no on site parking all of the parking from those 300 trips a day are going to have to spill into the residential neighborhoods uh where there already is scarce uh on-street parking which is used primarily by the residents of those neighborhoods okay no no thank you we don't need to belabor this point we get it there's a serious question about whether this can absorb a level of traffic that you were uh that it's being suggested and and i think just one last point uh chairman is uh section six section six dash three one of the criteria is will the use adversely affect the neighborhood i don't think they've satisfied that this citation of of these cases uh the one issued by the sjc and the one issued by the superior court the sjc case in taunt um was the the city council allowed a dispensary on the same street half a mile down then denied a dispensary on the same street where the traffic impacts of the one they allowed were twice what uh of the one that they denied okay those cases are not similar all right we did okay thank you thank you everybody else hello hi this is i'd like to be um from five three three one three which is right across the street for proposed property um we are strongly opposed to this um not just for safety and traffic but um just in general to the feel of the neighborhood um other that ones are already mentioned also their seniors with hospital right there and if there's not much traffic and everyone's trying to get through the block i would not want to be a patient there the other thing they didn't submit any safety and efficacy um you know trials or an effect on babies for you know cannabis and the effect of people just okay okay we're not we're not going to relitigate that whole cannabis question this is specifically about this site so thank you very much everybody else chairman members of the board and abel's office for the bright and awesome food association we'd like to go record opposing this uh to pretty much it has been mentioned uh the traffic impact on a very high rate of traffic on that street and having any double parking or anything is going to cause a lot of safety issues and like a parking thank you okay thank you all right i'm not ambassador right i think we're hearing most of the same thing over and over again is there any other any other any other way of sounds hi this is Sheila Jason can you hear me yep go ahead yeah i i'm at five fifty one in Washington straight and we have our office there and um all we really we have to choose with the parking and the double parking and we can't go out of the driver because you can't see because cars are double parked or delivery trucks and so we're strongly opposed to this we'll be happy to support co-op or any other proposal at a location where there's some parking that's more suitable for it it's already dangerous on this street thank you very much okay i think i think we've heard as much testimony as we need to so um i was uh asked uh somebody to make a motion please i mean i'm just i'm going back to if an if uh if another business goes there i i don't see how that other business would have any more our less cars than this business yet so i'd like to put a motion to approve with uh bpda bpda design review and an operating time from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. seven days a week so at least maybe i'll mitigate any morning traffic concerns that the neighborhood have but like again again i don't see how any other business would have any other traffic in fact this one so okay is there a second to mr. juros motion mr. juros is tom can i can it also be this petitioner only this petitioner only yep sorry oh this is this is Eric just one quick i mean we can't put sunset closet like come back in a year to see if this is not working yeah we can i mean i i guess i mean yeah you know this i think i've been on all three of the hearings now i appreciate the concern and neighbor and i joe i think you're i'm with you on your you're also positioned so i mean i'd like to support it but i wonder if we should put a sunset proviso or they come back in a year we see how things are going and then you know yeah yeah from market yeah i'll accept that okay then i will second that motion okay then um let me do the roll call mojero i uh Robinson yes binado yes low yes i'm gonna go no i think the opposition has been very clear and the motion therefore fails to pass because mr. hirley can we can we do a motion to denial of apprehendidists or yeah we can i would entertain such a motion i'll make it just so that they can come back we can do we can do a motion to differ i suppose but uh well then we'll just keep you're getting the can down the road i mean i don't think that makes sense so i even deny without prejudice this kicks the can down the road i just i just don't think that i think this is too much opposition uh for a business like this ticket to go in and well Joe's point is extremely well taken which is just about any business that's gonna have foot traffic and vehicle traffic some will have more than others and this is more likely to get vehicle traffic than then mojero i guess disagree with that i think it's uh uh uh uh uh uh well we're now in chef one in there and i'll be left with a restaurant you know i agree yeah i agree with that you know well okay well people we are i mean the only way than the only suggestion i would make is we may have motion to defer because this is a five member board maybe they'll have a better chance in the seventh member board so if we uh so why don't we have uh how about someone makes a motion to defer i'll make a motion to defer i'll second the motion to defer okay then mojero hi Robinson hi can i know yes low yes and i will vote in favor of that as well so we'll you'll hope you can try again with a full member board maybe let better luck uh mr. erick um for dates we can have him come back in the november date over 15 there will be a seven member board it is the same as today or we can come back in the new year which uh i don't know who will be on the board can we hi this is kofi can we do no member as long as the board is fine with that date uh how are we going to do it yeah okay thank you thank you the member of 15 uh at 11 30 or at 12 p.m. will be your next next date thank you john thank you people thank you okay mr. erick i want to read the question yep calling next case b.o.a 117 7 9 1 2 80 to 84 Boston street board 7 uh this is a reconsideration hearing uh vote uh for a vote on whether to reconsider the voice decision on May 10th to deny the relief because the vote to approve the relief fail to reach a quorum um so right man i'll just go to the bracket we do have their council here yeah i'm here i was just i wasn't sure if you had done mr. erick also yeah yeah like that it was pretty mr. chair members of the board attorney Ryan spits atoms and maranasi with the business address of 168 eight street self-boston um as you may recall we had a hearing on May 10th uh 2022 there was a request by a few of the members of the board for elevation drawings uh for some reason the elevation drawings were inadvertently left out of the file then they were not transferred over to the board for review at that point we weren't allowed to supplement uh since then we have supplemented the file well well well well we weren't allowed to supplement we didn't have them so so let's let's it's a now now we go ahead correct so so let let me let me go back to so they were originally submitted with the original application uh but for some reason they were inadvertently not transferred over to the zoning board from ISD um again that's without our faults uh so since then we have uh submitted resubmitted those elevation drawings for your review so at this point where we're asking to respectfully reconsider having a another hearing in order for the board to review the full set of plans and to base their decision on the full merits of this proposal okay now as I recall yes I recall uh this one uh the the the there were drawings that there were issues that we felt we couldn't really resolve or answer or uh form an opinion on because we didn't have enough information because we didn't have the drawings I don't really keep whose fault it was that's irrelevant uh for these proceedings um but we didn't have that information I also recall there was a significant amount of community opposition to this uh proposal as well um mr. Relic if if you don't mind me uh jumping in I don't believe we really had any opposition we had support from elected officials I don't think that's that's not my recollection but again I do mind you're jumping in um and so what we so what so today what we are present with is the option to reconsider in meaning that you will come back if we vote yes that you will come back at another date and we'll review it because we have more information that we did not have at the time of the original hearing and presumably it can make a more rational intelligent decision based on the additional information so why don't you tell us what you why don't you tell us what information we're now going to have that we didn't have before so there were a few questions of seeing where the sign was according to those elevations from different perspectives uh because the only thing that was received by the zoni board was the actual plot plan so it was tough to actually have a visualization yes um and that was made I believe the the motion there was a motion to defer to the law supplement was made by mr. Robinson and mr. Relic and I think you actually I don't know if you second that motion because there was a discrepancy on the actual vote itself uh as well I know there was a motion in front to support um that failed to from four to two votes in one person potentially asking for deferral but the deferral was not allowed to supplement those drawings so again you know those were more or less visualizations um and I'm waiting so okay okay okay so we have the we have all the rendering we do now yes we have all that stuff okay so now what so thank you mr. Spitz so now for the five of us the question is do we do we want to reconsider this case because we now have additional information that we didn't have at the time it was presented to us initially or do we simply want to let it what's done is done and move on so any comments thoughts from the board well yeah I mean I remember that hearing I remember Mr. at the motion originally not caring to support and then I remember mr. Robinson asking for and correctly from Ron but for motion and defer in for some reason that motion was not allowed so I think we should reconsider this so I'll make a motion to read so I'll second that motion the information is in the packet I do have one additional if we're going to reconsider this there maybe is a little bit at time but and this is a little bit selfish as a doorchester resident one of the bullet points for the propane is that three existing billboards will be removed and I know it says they will be determined by Councillor Baker and the McCormick Square I guess from a selfish point of view maybe I am allowed to do that I don't know but it would be great if there's any way that those three billboards could be maybe documented or decided on in the interim so we can make up you know it's a big difference if there are just some small ones that are in the neighborhood street or if they're actually substantial ones that really are an isor in the community so that's a big piece for me personally and one and a mr. Robinson that is not a selfish thing at all but the garchester resident I mean I was I was stunned when I heard that I've never heard that kind of proviso before and I'm very curious as to how that actually is going to play out that's it that's a broader issue of policy that all of us should be concerned but so thank you for resurrecting that okay so this has been a motion this has been a motion made and second to reconsider and I will do a roll call mr. erichero hi mr. Robinson yes miss bignado yes miss low yes and I too agree let's read let's devote to reconsider and so mr. spits to the applicant we would ask for two things one is the additional renderings and visualizations which together we have and the second would be an explanation of how the this business of the other boards coming down would actually take place yes absolutely and just if I can just just add so so it's three locations which actually turns out to be more faces of actual boards itself two locations okay but you'll have your opportunity right we'll be delighted to hear that so we have your opportunity here that all right with that I believe we are done with the people's business for the day so see y'all see y'all next time mr. chair we need a hair date yeah what's the date oh yes well so for the reconsiderations everyone we will re-noticed those under the term of the actual we'll be mailing the notice for the time to do some time to do the same meeting okay great okay bye everybody