 you you you the the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for August 23, 2022 is now in session this hearing is being conducted and appointed with the approval provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year on its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 23. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Members, applicants and their attorneys and representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As for our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. Order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to to our comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, for those of you connected by telephone, press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know when to call you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. I will make a point right now saying thank you to all of everybody who offered comments to the board via email. We see that we have a lot of projects today, a number of projects today where there is lots of opposing positions on a specific project. So I recommend in the time prior to you are having to present that you decide which members of either support or not position gets to present because we will be limiting comments to five people. This will exclude elected officials and representatives of elected officials. So I am giving you a heads up right now. Okay, so let's call, take a roll call Mr. Fortune. Good morning Madam Chair. Morning, Mr. Erling. Here. Mr. Dog. Morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Ms. Finado. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. And may I ask the board member to put a tie on identifying yourself as board members. BPD representation from Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning and BTD representation from Mr. Domingo. The President and Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Domingo. Mr. Fortune, it's all yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd call the first extension calling the 08104-345-21 Shepherd Street. Name and address the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board are turning Chief Trago with Trago Tuscano, with business address of 11 Beacon Street here from Extension. Thank you, Mr. Trago. Regarding 21 Shepherd Street, the board originally granted its release on October 21, 2020, and it remains valid until October 21, 2022. COVID-19 does not apply because it's released granted after the start of the COVID state of emergency in March 2020. The applicant now requests its first one-year extension. I recommend that the board grant this extension and determines that it's appropriate under the circumstances. And this is a request for an extension until 2023. Yes, Madam Chair. So this is 823-23, is that the request? October 21, Madam Chair. And 21, okay. May I have a motion as such? Motion to approve? Is there a second? Welcome. Fortune? Aye. Oleg? Aye. Dong? Aye. Rogero? Aye. Robinson? Aye. Pinato? Aye. Rao Joe's also in support. So motion carries good luck. Madam Chair, can we just make it clear that it's October 21, 2021, 2023, whoever does make that motion, that they make it very clear? Okay. State the date, in other words, thank you. Thank you. Following the next case for extension calling, the OA667111151, the Liverpool Street. Amen, add this for the recommended flight. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Tony Lachice. I'm an attorney with the law firm of Cropetus and Blue Steen. 600 Atlantic Avenue in Boston, representing City Point, Liverpool. Thank you, Councillor. Regarding 151 Liverpool Street, the board originally granted its relief on May 26, 2017. The board has subsequently granted three extensions to release, step two expire on August 25, 2022. Although the second extension was unnecessary, the third extension covered all applicable polling toll. Tolling, the recommended the board for the record that the prior extensions covered all applicable tolling. The applicant now seeks an additional extension because of the circumstances around the difficulty of committing their project. I recommend that the board grant that extension if it determines that it's currently available. I'm getting a certain chance to keep in mind that it's the only out of the inserted necessary extension. What's the termination date is from 823-22? It's set to expire on August 25, 2022. Okay, so the request is for 825-23. This is just a note to the attorney. Can you please make sure that this project proceeds? It's been on the works for quite a period of time and the board does not give indefinitely approval. So, please do what you can to encourage the applicant to proceed on this. We understand that, Chair. And we actually have obtained a foundation permit. So the plan would be to start on the foundation straight away. Thank you. Can I have a motion, please? Motion approved. Motion for one year extension with an expiration date of 825-23. Is there a second? Okay. A fortune. Aye. Oleg. Hi. Dong. Aye. Rijiro. Aye. Robinson. Aye. I'm not out. Aye. A round, Joe, is all since the board. Some motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thanks very much. On the last extension, calling the 08-928-83628 Monument Square. Aiman Adres to the Ractor, please. I have to go to the stand here. I'll call the 857-452. Are you here to put this before? No. Just a minute. Jeff. Paul. There are Mr. Harris on the side. Yeah, I'm right here. Can you hear me now? Aiman Adres to the Ractor, please. Jeff Harris, 28 Monument Square. Regarding 28 Monument Square, the board originally granted this relief on September 28th of 2019, so however that extension was a mess here because of cold we're told and applies. With telling the release does not expire until December 26th of 2022, I recommend that the board firm the expiration date for the record. The applicant also requested extension until September 20th of 2023. I recommended that board the board grant that extension that defines it appropriate under the circumstances, keeping in mind that it's the applicant's first necessary extension. Make a motion to extend until September 20th, 2023. Second. Fortune. Aye. Early. Aye. Long. Aye. Was zero. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Fernando. Roger Alson supports it's been extended to 92023. Thank you. Following the next case, the board final, obitor, following day of BOA 102969435, Brookley Road. Aiman Adres for the record, please. Morning, members of the board. My name is Matt Hensy, I'm a development consultant on behalf of the owner entities, Stone and Brookley LLC. So tell us why you're here. I'm here because the Boston Spectral Services plan review are recommended that we change the permit application for the project, so that's consistent with the requirements of the fire department. The entry of the design is on Stone and Brookley Road. The original permit, which we inherited from a prior developer, was submitted at 35 Brookley Road. So this is a request to clean up correct and put the proper address on the permit application. What's the proper address for the record? So the proper address will be 10 Stone and Brookley Road, which you make the plan. Okay, 10 Stone and Brookley Road and front doors, face 10 Stone and Brookley Road. That is correct. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good, no questions on the proposed proposal. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to help the repeat. Thank you. Fortune? Aye. Oh, right. Aye. Dong. Aye. Rijiro. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Anato. Aye. Aroudio Alton's points, a motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. I'm going to call the 930 Haring Strait, need to furl, so with throttle, 930 cases only. If you can give me the address first, you have to furl or withdrawing a 930 case. 67 out of 10. Thank you, Councillor. Well, the record calling DOA 133-979-867-Hallful Street. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Summage Street, East Boston, the African Titianer. We're requesting a full, we have some plan updates to make and get reviewed with ISD, so we're asking for the furl, 12 hours time to complete that. I have a motion, please. We'll cut it to furl. I'm going to give it here. Fortune. Aye. A Link. Aye. Gauwung. Aye. Regiro. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Pinato. Aye. Aroudio Alton's points, a motion carries. The date, please. Good luck with date of October 4th at 1130. Also, 32 out of 133. I'm sorry, say that again, Councillor. 32, hold on. Okay, thank you. For the record calling, VLA 135, 1215, 32 to 32C, hold on to street. Amen, address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, good morning again. Richard Lins, 245 Summage Street, East Boston, the African Titianer. Madam Chair, we're requesting the full. We have some schedule issues with the EAA, with their Summage schedule. We didn't want to have an opportunity to present the most updated plan one last time. That's why I think we're going to have to be in charge of that. We're going to have to be in charge of that. We're going to have to be in charge of that. I believe they're able to accommodate us at their September meeting. And therefore just asking for a brief deferral to allow us to do that. This tends to be a historic problem. This is a notice to community groups that we are going to be slowly approaching. So there's not a reason for applicants to request the farlds or the board to be scheduling and then deferring. In this case, may I have a motion? Do we have a motion? Yes, Madam a motion? No, we didn't have a motion. Motion's in the fur. Thank you. Fortune? Aye. Alec? Aye. Dom? Aye. Michiro? Aye. Robinson? Aye. Robinson? Aye. Benado? Aye. The date, please. We love a date of October 4th at 1130. And also for the record to say that our vouchers also support the law. Thank you, Bromford. Are there any other deferrals that were brought up to 930 cases? A ringnut will call the first case. Following the VLA127638242 West Eagle Street. This is adding a walkout jacket, a dollar of violates.53, section 12. The height is excessive and article 53, section 52, roof structure restriction, name and address for the record please. Morning everyone. Jason Ken, 42 West Eagle Street. The tells what you're proposing to do? Yeah, the proposal is to add a roof decking to 100. The tax is out of my account. You know. And is this a one family or two family? What is it? The building is a multi family, but the roof deck is explicit to the unit. So, see, so zoning it. So this is, is it a two family? Oh, let me just go back. So it's a three family dwelling. It's a two F district. And it's a three family dwelling and you have the top most unit. Okay. And tell us what the occupancy of this proposed dorma would be. Sorry, I don't know what that means. I'm chairman. It would be private use for the owner. Who is speaking? Sorry, this is their exact same context. Nine Sanctual Street Charleston in the architect. Hey, so it would be, I'm sorry, what would it be again? A private occupancy for the roof, for the top unit tenant. Jason and his wife. Okay. And does that look like it's actually what is the access to the roof deck? So there's an existing unused, a static space. And because of that configuration, we're kind of extending it into kind of half of the head house in order to. To be a access to the rear unit to the roof deck for the rear. Do you know how fond we are of head houses? Was there any other option that you could conceive of? Then we could, we looked at a way of putting the hack on the low surface of the existing roof. But it actually wouldn't open for now. It would kind of create a situation where you'd have to duck under it. And that we created a custom hat that would work with that or will move apart from the roof and put that app. With any existing attic space. Okay. Let's see, and this unit will have four bedrooms. Yes. Okay. And what's the dimension of that deck? The deck is just to the six inches by 19 big three inches. Okay. How are the plans with Sir Robinson? Plans are fine. You know, I was wondering the same thing. The roof doesn't actually slip back toward what they're trying to do. So I was interested to know also if the hatch is conceivable. It seems like you could build a knee wall and maybe raise up a hatch and make it work. Is that not correct? To create more head room to get up there. Why would be in line with the slope of the existing roof line? Right. We should revisit that. Okay. The ones we looked at did not open far enough to. Okay. I don't have a problem with the roof deck necessary. But I think maybe we could reconsider the roof or the access point. But other than that, there's no questions for me. Any questions from the board? Just to reiterate, I mean, in the drawing on the left there, the top of the head house is actually higher than the high point of the roof. So I mean, we really don't want to extend the height of the building. Yep. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of the Superclosel? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Ms. Overboard. And I tell you, I've been using this with the mayor's office update, the host services. And about us meeting was housed on April 12th of this year. No, about her was in attendance for the meeting. The applicant also met with the Eagle Hill Civic Association and the Association voted to support the project. But they did say that they would like to see a hatch instead of a head house. At this time, our office would like to refer to the judges. Thank you. I have no way of saying this at the moment. Even though I may have a motion, please. From motion to approve, to provide, to provide, I guess, the removal of the head house for a hatch and the EPDA to sign a review, which can make sure that that happens. Very second. Second. Fortune. Hi. Erlich. Hi. Dong. Regiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Benado. Hi. Aroujo. Also in support. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Following in the next case, following the OA, 128205571, Willowwood Street. This is a change of article from a two family to a three family. Instruct new dormism, third floor of the violation, Article 60 Section, body, Office 3, parking, and suspicion. Article 60, Section 9, the side yard and suspicion. Article 60 Section 9, the light area is suspicion. Article 60 Section 9, the light width is suspicion. Article 66 Section 9, the light crunch is suspicion. Article 66 Section 9, the FOIA ratio is excessive. And Article 66 Section 9, the use of lock and space, is insufficient. The Indian Address is correct. Second. Second. I close and are you here for this case? Is that anyone here yourself? Yes. Hello? Yes. Can you guys hear me? Yes, put your name in the address on the record and tell us what you're proposing to do. Okay, my name is Clisten and I'm representing 71 Willowwood. And what's your last name and who are you affiliated with? Clisten Lewis and I'm the owner of 71 Willowwood Street. Okay, excellent. Go ahead, tell us what you're proposing. So we have a two family at 71 Willowwood that we would like to turn into a three family. So on the third floor, there was an additional three segments upstairs, and with a separate entrance from the front of the house. And then we started working to turn into a three family. Okay, so tell us what the floor to ceiling height is, and if you are aware of the dormers proposed for the rear or the front of the building. So we ended up not using any dormers, so we ended up doing it to like what was already existing before. So we didn't add any dormant. So tell us what's the floor to ceiling height then? Give me one second. My architect should have been on this course from March, sure if he's logged in. What's the name? Fred Menigat. So those dormers being shown are not part of the proposal anymore? They're not part of the proposal anymore. So because when we got to permit to do work, we ended up not meeting the dormers. So does this mean you've already started work on this? Yes. It's a complete. It's actually where we got all the rough, and then we're actually waiting for final inspection. Okay. Did you pause construction while this was during, while this was proceeding through its appeal process? We kept on going, but like I said, you know, we just were at the ending of everything. So we're just waiting for final inspection. And that's a very risky thing for you to do, to proceed because should we deny this, then there would be no third unit in there. And you would be out. So, but in the meantime, tell us what the floor to ceiling height is, what the square foot of that unit is, and how many bedrooms are there? So under third floor, I see I'm not trying to, I really apologize, but I'm trying to see my architect has all these information, so I'm not sure if he's honest, because I can't see if he's on or not. So it is during that room. So there's three bedrooms. Yeah, and what's the square footage proposed about? Is it a little smaller? It looks like than the second floor? Yes. It's somehow, I would say it's about 950 square feet, the whole entire unit. Right? And it has a separate means of egress? Yes. And how does that happen? So, I guess on the thing, he had proposed that we put a sprinkler system on all the other. How does the potential owner or resident of this unit get up there? Do they have a separate door? Yes, they have a separate door. Okay, so it's not going through somebody's unit. No, it's not. Can you please help us out? Sure. Can you send the floor to ceiling height in this? No, I don't have a section of it. I guess I do have a question. The proponent indicated, I mean, there's existing dormers on the house, but they're low dormers. They sort of sit on the eve. So, in the plans we have, it shows the dormers and the bedrooms to the rear, which I don't understand how he would get enough head height in those bedrooms to be legal, but I don't have a configuration of what they laid out, so I don't really have a way to assess this. It's a little bit unclear, because this shows two bedrooms, and it does show the extended dormers in the back, I think, and it shows the existing dormers. So, a little bit of, not clear in the drawings to be honest, what's going on. There is an access point, so, I mean, we could, I would be probably okay with, if we approve of no building code relief, or something of that nature just to restrict it, so there's no issues with head height and other access points. If that's what we want to proceed with. Okay, is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Eric James of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant for 71-Rillowood had no butters, meaning on May 18th, as I understand, it was a pretty straightforward meeting. They also met with the Woodrow-Av Neighborhood Association, where I believe they gave support. At this time, the Mayor's Office would like to defer to the judgment of the Board on this matter. Thank you. I'm going to start. I have no additional wraithness. I'm going to cut the BPA. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Jeff Hansen, BPA. We recommended approval with design review, but like Mr. Robinson said, that was based on the plans that we saw with the dormers with the extended living space and the attic. So we do have a recommendation of approval with design review. I would echo the sentiment that if the Board were to see this to be approved, that there be no building code relief as the dormers are not out of this project anymore. Thank you. Can I just ask the proponent a real quick question? So I understand you already built and it's roughed in. So there is no exterior changes on the current bill, right? From what is existing? No, we ended up not doing the exterior changes at all. Okay. Thank you. Hey, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with no building code relief. I'll second that. Fortune. I. All right. Don. I. No. No. Not in sport. Opposed? Robinson. I. Fernando. I. Rojo in our position because I think that this is, should not have gone ahead. But motion carries. So it's been approved with no building code relief. And since it's now just waiting for inspection. And I asked. Staff, please to make sure that everything is conveyed to the building inspector. What do you do about there? Thank you. On your next case, counting the OA128, 9438211, west, third screen. So at a story, a trope, the existing building, creating a fourth residential unit, differentiates, remembers the organ of the building, which is placed on a Jewish site of the main building system. What it looks like, when you access it to a brick wall or soft bunker neighbors. And the company provides full addresses where not only windows, but more for just building creates making for Boulder. 360 in an area they have access to, that's right back there. I, recmont into freeze. Stat of St. ents district.住ou City. Parliament district largest. Garfield? Mark. who's joining us today, Jason Morrison, and the architect Doug Stuffinoff will be joining us as well. As just stated from Mr. Secretary, this is a proposal to change the occupancy from a three-family dwelling to a four-family dwelling by adding an additional story. This is currently under occupied, and will continue to be so. Rio Dax will also be constructed for egress added to each unit. Currently, the three units are two bedrooms of peace ranging from 1131 square feet. That's what the unit will actually be a carbon copy of the first three units as well. This proposal is located within a multi-family residential sub-district. We have violations for building height. As you can see from the existing condition, that there is an existing headhouse that brings the building height to approximately 40 feet. Hold on, come, so can you tell us which drawing we should be looking at? Doug Stuffinoff, if you could just interject as far as the actual page. Oh, sure. I would go further into this. Right there. That would be perfect right here for the height, if we could look for a lot. So this here shows that the existing headhouse and the chimney on the top that brings us to approximately about 40 feet in height. That will be eliminated from the new proposal when adding the fourth story, which will bring us to 41 feet and 11 inches to the roof line. Because we have to continue to run that chimney up on the existing, on the new proposed building that we're adding the additional four feet and six and a half inches, which will bring the total proposal to the height of 46.5 feet. We have a violation for the side yard. As you can see is that we're not changing the existing footprint to the building. So those are all non-performing. So I'm just leveled on a minute. Can you tell us how, if this is contextual, is there additional four families within this block? Yes, there are multi-families in this block. And as you can see is from the roof line here is intact and is certainly a fit with other roof lines in this neighborhood as well. Yes, can you tell us which drawing we should be referring to? Is so this is the new drawing here that will show the new existing height, this here. So you'll see that where to the roof line there, it's at 31 feet and 11 inches. And then the chimney that which has to be extended in the property will raise it another four feet and six and a half inches. And that's what brings it to the proposed height of 46.5 feet. Estetically that roof line is in line with other neighboring, the budding dwellings on this block itself. Hey, how are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine and I do agree that there is a series of four story buildings on this street and seems fairly consistent with the urban block. So no questions. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wei at the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Owen S. Halden, the butters meeting for two eleven and less third street on June 9th of this year. We have no letters in support or opposition to this project. At this time it likes to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here we do have second letters of support. Madam Chair, members of the board. Owen, the Council of Law and Micah Larry, was his stance towards Article 68 here since we make assistance. There are a part of it that you weren't married and you would defer to the board this matter. Thank you. Anna, I'd like to get this one here. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Anna Caledon from Council President Flings Office. The Councilor would like to go on recording support based on our truth community process support from our bothers and no outstanding issues reported to our office. Thank you. Thank you Anna, and I have no additional words. I'll make your panelists in as well. Thank you. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to do it. I agree with the BPA design review. Thank you. Anna, watching? Aye. Oleg? Aye. Um, aye. Rosero? Aye. Robinson? Aye. Pinato? Aye. Arral Gil also, aye. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you all. Following the next case, Collegiate A129-698-625 Ever Street. It's taken by two lots. It's a 1, 2,707 square feet, 1,925 square feet, resulting in 4,632 square feet. Raising existing single family home and garage are a lot in erect a four-story six-unit residential dwelling with six odds to be packing. Violates to Article 27G. This is in the East Boston iPod. Article 232, Section 32-Dashmore, Groundwater. This is in G-Card, Groundwater Conservation Ovalid District. Article 53, Section 8, the uses of the bidden. Article 53, Section 9, the preliminary ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 56, Poster Street Parking. Article 53, Section 57.2, Corwin Existing Building Alignment. Article 53, Section 9, the additional areas is sufficient. Article 53, Section 9, Bill and Highs Excessive and Stories. Article 53, Section 9, the Bill and Highs Excessive and Speed. Article 53, Section 9, the use of local spaces is sufficient. Article 53, Section 9, Prudgad's insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the bill is insufficient. Even address for the record. Morning, Adam Chair, members of the Board, Richard Lens, 245 Summars Street, East Boston, the half of the petitioner. With me is also Will Schell-Effett from Calls of Design. Madam Chair, procedural history on this. And while we're back before the board in August of 2019, this board actually approved this project for six units at four stories with eight parking spaces. That was subject to BPD design review and comments from PTD relative to the number of parking spaces in the rear. When we had gone through the BPD design review process, BPD and recommended a reduction in parking from the eight spaces that were approved down to six. As a result of that, when we conferred a VSD relative to the process for that, we had requested the board final arbiter to make that modification. IZ indicated this need of the new hearing based upon the reduction of parking spaces in addition, because now we would also be subject to G-Cod. We're back before the board for essentially the same project of the reduction from eight spaces to six spaces. I can run through briefly just the changes, so we actually are on the air. Can we hold on for a minute? Is Christian on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, Christian Seminari, Boston Ruralist, and we have both letters from the app. Ben, can we have the letters as well? Okay. Okay, so can you tell us what has changed then? Sure. So, I'll run through each of the items. And, sorry, please remind me when this was approved. August of 2019, and there was an extension of time from the en masse approval. Okay, so go ahead. So, the proposed use is a multi-family description. That was what was originally approved. There's been no change. Neither will, no change about a lot size lot with or building items from what was previously approved. A rear, except that does get modified about two feet based upon the building design change. However, I will point out behind the property is the private ways. Do our buddy rear properties actually further be on the private way, so there's minimal impact to that. And don't change anything with respect to the setback in the rear. We do change the side here from an original approved five feet to 2.5 feet, however, that is a combined condition based upon a three up 2000 district. We reduce our FBR. Oh, sorry, sorry, Councillor, so the side here concerns me because I just wonder what is the distance to the abutting buildings and how basic maintenance will be maintained on that building, not just no side B artisan. Sure, actually, if we go to the site plan to few slides further down, and actually advance, yeah, correct. Keep going. Further, we have a landscape plan as well. One more, two more. One more. There we go. So, as you can see here, and this again is based upon the process thus far with the BPDA regarding the redesign of the building footprint. As you can see, we do have two and a half foot side there for most of the building on the narrower portion of the lot. The rear portion a lot, obviously, has a much greater side yard based upon the expanded footprint that is that lots of the rear that's being combined. So we are proposing that change of condition as well. But you were approved, however, for a five foot side yard. That's correct. And I will point out three out two thousand district, however, or two point five foot side yard is combined. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No questions on the plans. I guess I just had a question. Did I see the BPDA's recommendation on this? I just trying to remember. I thought there was a reason. There is a BPA, yes, exactly. But I just feel the record is around to the far main. So the genesis of why we're back here ironically, is because of the BPDA's design review. I understand that. I understand that kind of what I'm thinking. Hold on, everybody. Hold on, we will have the BPA speak for themselves. Yep. So let's just any questions from the board. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Jim, and Mr. Boyd, Jeff here at the BPDA. I think this might be one of the rare cases where I think there was something lost in translation. I mean, Mr. Lins is correct. We recommended in our past recommendation when it was an eight unit, we recommended six. Yeah. And we stayed consistent with the denial. We stayed consistent here. Mr. Lins is right. I cannot switch our recommendation to approval because it was approved by our board. However, I just think it was something that was lost in translation on this. And that's really all I can say. OK. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes. Good morning, Madam. Here, I'm on the board. That's how you need to put the mayor's office of neighborhood services. But a butters meeting was held on April 2018. Based on my understanding, there were initial concerns from a director of the butter. Over time, has shifted to support a project. This is an unique case that I'm sure, because there has been a lot of turnover with the Amazon's inner office as well as civic association membership. So the information I have is very limited. So it's time I would like to the for all judgments in support. Thank you. OK. I have my own. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with continuing BPA design to do. I'll second here. Fortune. Hi. Alec. Hi. Dom. Hi. Michiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Benado. Hi. A round goes also. I some motion. Carey is good luck. Thank you very much. Following an XK's Colleague A1307734. A122 Saracogistry. Sikapurama, I can have the one family and change for a four-unit residential dwelling. Open closed directly in a rare addition with new red X and roof deck. The violation is Article 53, Section 56, Austria-Foggy is insufficient. Article 53, Section 8 be used as the bid. Article 27, T-5. This is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 52, Roops, Structure, Restriction. Article 53, Section 9. The Florida Aracial is excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the building of the High Successive and Stories. Article 53, Section 9, the building of the High Successive and Treat. Article 53, Section 9. Side-yard, sufficient. And Article 53, Section 9, the way that is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. LeBord, Richard Lennon's 245 Sumner Street East Boston B.A.F.R. Petitioner from Chessnaf's Faulty. With me also is Chris Drew from 686 Architects is the Project Architect. Madam Chair, brief overview of this project. The site is located in the lower Ego Hill between the central Ego Hill section of East Boston. It is a 2F-2000 district. The building we are proposing to renovate is a semi-attached single-family dwelling with six bedrooms. Our proposal would change the occupancy and complete a complete renovation on the existing right side of this building that we're looking at, and change the occupancy to four units with an addition of a rear. One of the things I will point out is that we've worked very closely with the funding property to the left, as you can see. The existing building itself sort of has its own style to both sides. It doesn't seem like there was any economy of scale and siding the building, et cetera. So we've worked closely in a rendering showing what the finished product would look like. Because the plan here would be to make this building look much more uniform than it currently does. We respect to the units. So we are proposing two one-bedroom units and two two-bedroom units. The average unit size of 957 square feet, the one-bedroom range from 7 out of 22 square feet to what the unit has square feet. The two bedrooms are a little over 11 square feet, so very generous in the size. This reflects the relief that we require. This is what we're looking at. So please tell us how, where is the addition? I think in jump back to the site plan, it might be about two slides back. So we see here the existing building here with our proposed addition and our proposed patio with a roof deck. I will point out the roof deck is actually below the highest point of the roof line since being proposed in a rear portion of the building. The building itself has a pitch roof to the front. So the roof deck is pretty well hidden, accessed from stairwell, not from the headhouse. So if I understand this right then, one half of the building will be elongated and pretty much consume all the rear yard. So what do you do? We do actually step the building back out of chairs to the lower levels, the furthest most portion. We do have some elevations that we can show the board. I didn't go to the next slide, I'll see a side elevation. So we see here the lower level is the furthest point back and the building does step back the second and third levels well and you can see the orientation of the proposed roof deck. We do have a 20 foot setback and we do have an overview plan. This is very consistent with the adjoining buildings of the left that we talked about earlier in the presentation. So our building itself would be consistent depth with the adjoining building to our left. The adjoining building, sorry, so the adjoining building to the left matches this and rear yard extension. Yeah, we do have an overview. You can see the overview satellite view of the building in South and you can see the extent of that addition. Can you tell us for first the correct page we should be looking at? I'm sorry, the BPD abstract would work. You can scroll down and see the relative distance of the building that's for our left and that proposed addition as well. So I see the differences that you're going, how far will you be from the side property line there? So our setbacks on the side, currently is zero on the left side and about four and a half feet on the right those existing conditions. If we can jump to the side plan jump forward maybe two slides, two of these lines. Yeah, so we can we maintain that zero setback on the left and our four and a half foot setback on the right. Okay. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plan surf, fine. I guess my only real question on the proposal is that the shared property line because there is windows in the addition of the abutting property. So I don't quite understand how that's going to work to be honest. I believe Mr. Oz, I believe where the windows are on the buildings at the left and do you believe they have this sufficient setback of three feet that allows for that opening to be maintained? I don't believe where. Correct. Sorry, I'm Chris Trudeau. I think that's the target test. Yes, on that abutting building on the one 20 star focus. That from our zero property line is that about three half feet on the existing extension. We were right, but I mean, in all honesty, you're not being very neighborly smack and red against your property line. It's still going to be open now and it will be down to two and a half feet for one, two, three, four, five windows on their parcel. So you agree with that? Yeah, it will be about three and a half feet basically from the edge of our proposed addition to the edge of their extension itself. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Well, just to continue on that. So currently those windows from the abutting building look out on open space and now they'll look out in the wall. It's correct. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good morning Madam Chairman, I'm the president of the board and I'm the deputy office of the people in service. We hosted in the butter's meeting for this project on April 11th, no issues were raised at the meeting. The abutters did say that they believe that this was a good addition to the street. The applicant also met with two associations, the Eagle Hill City Association, which they opposed. The members are against getting rid of a single family homes and they would like to, they'll not until the war in historic and also mention the lack of open space. My very central and even association approved, they believe it is a good addition to the payment. At this time, our office will to the participants of the work. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have seven letters. You do have three of them in addition. I'm gonna try out two ways, Hans, yeah. I'll start with Maria. Can you switch your name and address for the work of friends? Hi, yes, my name, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. My name is Maria Catino. I live at 111 Prison Street by parents also live here until you're in Calcutta, they could not attend this morning. They own the house because they're away. We oppose the addition because of looking, understanding that it's going from a one family to a four unit. Our concern is that we have a balcony that looks over and has the view of the skyline. Our concern is that if you're putting a roof deck and that going back out into the yard and extending and building up, our concern is that you will be obstructing our view to the Boston skyline, which we've enjoyed for over three decades. So we would like to oppose that or understand how high that build the roof deck with the units are gonna go high up. And in comparison to me and some of the neighbors of that view, will that be obstructed now? Did you know, I'm sorry, did you have an opportunity to participate in any of the community meetings? I did not know. I was not aware of any meetings or when they were discussing this. I just received a notice a few weeks ago and then that's when I submitted an email opposing. So I don't know if they just fit to be immediate. Thank you. Can we hear from anybody else? I am going to be sitting here and I just for the second place. I don't think this is someone I want to comment on. I want to comment on the Cross Street project. Lower your head and then everything. One more to Tim O. Hi. Hi. This is a 396 B.S. Street Boston Massachusetts. I think that having more people live there seems a lot more important than the British. Sorry. Which neighborhood are you in? Calden, Rosendale. Okay. This is an East Boston project. As I mentioned before, we want to hear from a virus. We will be directly impacted. So can we just go ahead and is there anybody else? Can you test them? Are you going to get tested on them? Yeah. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Francesco is in the project for Connor. He's the project for Connor. Okay. That's a motivational baseball. Okay. Mary, I hear a please from the BPD. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of Board, Jeff Hampton, BPD. We recommended to know without prejudice. We think the extension is a little excessive. It really takes away a lot of the open space in the very eye. Okay. So given all that information, may I have a motion please? Only a motion for the denial without prejudice. Is there a second? Second. Question? Hi. Oleg? Hi. Don? Hi. Rochiro? Hi. Robinson? Hi. Benado? Hi. Aroujo is also eye, so it's been denied with that prejudice. If you're following calling an exchange, calling the DOA 13094653964 Washington Street. This is the converting existing basement into a new unit, change art from three units to four units, violation of Article 67, Section 8, a multi-failment use to forbidden, Article 67, Section 56, obstreet parking, insufficient, Article 67, Section 9.4, the location of the main entrance, Article 67, Section 8.2, basement units, Article 67, Section 9, the lot of areas of submission, Article 67, Section 9, log width is insufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the four of the erasure is excessive, Article 67, Section 9, log front, section 5, Section 5, imminent address for the record please. Madam Chair, is there a—can I just—I don't know if I can step in now, not—there's not really any information on the height and clearance in the basement unit. If that's what the proponent is, I think we need to probably request more additional information. Thank you, Mr. Vasilis. So, what are you on? I would like to see a hand, is there any—is there a point here? So, I'm at the front. I'm at the front. It's good. Done? Okay. I do see a right here, second. Please, sir. Such a request, sir, and there you. Oh. Hello? Can I hear you? Can you hear me now? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Go ahead, put your name and address on the record. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. My name is Caesar De Silva. I'm a fact representative, owner. Actually, I would like to ask for the furl on the executive scale. Hold on. Hold on. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to the furl. Is there a second? Second. Watching. Hi. Oleg. Hi. Dong. Hi. Grisiro. Hi. Robinson. I'm a manado. Hi. Haraujo. Also motion carries. The date, please. You'll have a date of October 4th at 1130. And please, Mr. De Silva. Mr. Robinson, can you clarify what a jisro-machemini? Yes. I think if you can give some information on the existing grades as they relate to the basement height, as well as the clearances in the basement. And I think you probably will understand that the board isn't so excited about that. So excited about just window egress wells that just doesn't seem to really work for us. And I think the grade is very tight as I see it in the sort of site or Google Street Views and things. So if you can take that into consideration next time. I will. Thank you. Thank you. And what's the date again? October 4th at 1130. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. I'm going to next case. Calling the OA132-0835-9-U in Street. Disadrect a new four-storey four-unit residential building proposed for Austria-Pocking. The violation of Article 10, Section 1, limitation of parking areas, I do not offer. Article 66, Section 9, the fluid area ratio is excessive. Article 66, Section 9, use the open spaces, suspicion. Article 66, Section 40, the Office of Repocking, Design of the Reability. Article 66, Section 9, the additional law of areas and commission. Article 66, Section 9, the Demential Regulation of a halemable story has been exceeded. Three stories, the max. Article 66, Section 9 is sufficient. Frontier, I'd set back. Article 66, Section 8, four-family is good. Name and address for the record. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney to go to the Easter from the law firm, obtained Torpy 175 Federal Street, 1500 Boston 021-0606. Thank you very much. This matter has come before the board previously. At that time, with all of the continuous support of the mudders and the Napier Dissociation, which I will mention at the moment, the board at that time denied this because it had bedrooms in the basement unit. That has changed the proposal in front of you from the applicant. The applicant continues to have the support of the mudders and the area villages. Mr. Smith, if you say, please tell us what is being proposed, how it's going to be accomplished. I'll talk about the violations, please. All right. Well, I certainly have a person who's more efficient than I in that matter of chair. So I'm going to have the architect, David Fried, do that for you. So Mr. Fried. Yes. Thank you. My name is David Fried and I'm an architect at Chewing Company. The proposed project is a four-unit building. The units are designed as two plaques with two bedrooms, two and a half baths and a study. The lower units have the living area in the basement level and the living spaces exceed the code minimum for light and air. And then the bedrooms are on the first floor level for the lower units. The upper units are designed with the living areas on the second floor and the bedrooms on the third floor. The units range in size from 1370 to 1451 square feet. There is open space in the rear yard, the side yard to the right and in the front yard. The to the left of the building is parking for four cars. Mr. Fried, can you please talk to us about the. What was the first two units on the ground floor talk to us about how far below grade they are and just talk us through that. Yes. If you could please kindly move forward to I believe it she's 21. Okay. That's great. So the so high in the living areas is set at three foot five. And the windows are four feet tall. So the window head is basically at seven foot six. So that's the relationship of the lower unit to grade. Okay. And so then talk to us about the parking. Yeah. If you would kindly go to eight, she pays zero. So there's parking for three vehicles. About in the rear lot line. And there's a fourth vehicle that has its own parking space. Send back 20 feet from the others so that the part is based number one has a new probability. The fourth parking space is not in the front yard. It's in the side yard. And so if we look at that, the occupancy in the I'm going to just call it in the in the basement. Where does the where do those windows open to? Does it open to this parking lot? Yeah. The windows in the unit a do open on the side of the parking. And there also there also windows in the front as well for both unit a and B. Okay. Okay. Yeah. We're not thrilled about occupancy in the basement. So you know, just keep that in mind. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? The plans are going to, you know, I think the switch of the four plates, I guess, meets the sort of a spirit about we were trying to avoid. But, you know, there is some great change from right to left. So I think the left hand lower unit is probably in better off than the right. But then I think my only other kind of question is obviously is a lot of paving for the parking lot because of maneuver, ability issues. So maybe we should get some really should have a horizontal look specifically at this parking configuration and the paving on the site. So for no other questions on the public. Madam, I think Mr Demiko spoke on that. So I don't know if it helped Mr Robinson. Okay. Go ahead. Madam Chile, members of the board of the me go. I'm also trying to take the patient. And on the two create some screening and buffering that improve new ability. I'd like to recommend that space number one be removed. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yeah. I have a question. It's one thing when you have renovations and existing building and you're going into the basement. So I'm going to ask you a question. Why was designed in such a way that there's just a low grade living space? I mean, there's really no need for that. And is there some logic that I'm missing? And this is a question for the applicant. I guess I can answer that. The owner of the property wanted to design four two bucks units. He wanted to be able to provide units that would be for either a young family or young professionals starting a family. And I wanted to be able to provide sufficient space in each unit for. No, no, no, no, that I understand why not move the whole building up? This would be then they would encar second another violation. A height violation, a 35 feet and two and a half stories. You know, it would be the 35 feet that would trick or it is a 35 feet right now. Yes. 349. Okay. Yeah. Can I also Madam Chair, turning Feaster, can I just answer that explanation? I during the neighborhood process, a lot of this Mr. Early was embedded in exactly what chair, a module said the concern was to keep consistency in turn to the height and not to go to desire to have the height. So that was the basis of hard question. Notwithstanding the applicants desire to provide the space for the units that provide that space was to be able to maintain the height consistency in the neighborhood. The other curiosity did the applicant. This is a three of five thousand district. Did the applicant actually check out what the options would be to have one unit on the ground floor and honest to goodness. You know, unit and then the, you know, the split units on the other two floors. And in fact, we were working in the completely in the spirit of this excluding basement occupancy, but also respecting the height, etc. I would say Madam Chair, I believe not that did not come up in any of the conversations. I, my sense was I thought that the board was concerned about having bedroom space in the basement as opposed to having a musical space in the basement. I'm trying to understand how this differs from many other developments where they may have family rooms or play rooms in that space. And so that's we, we reversed the bedroom space to accommodate those concerns, which the board expressed back in the 2020. So I'm not clear about the inquiry at this particular point in time. But to answer your question directly, I would say that the applicant did not consider the option to just propose that. If I could, Mr. Feaster, I think the issue is when we look at family rooms, we're typically looking at existing buildings where it's already below grade. This is a different situation where you have the possibility of design fresh because it's a new building. So I think that's what makes it different. And Mr. Ehrlich, I, you know, that is very, very illustrative. I would just say in my opinion, if appropriate guidance to my client, I was unaware of both the board's ammunition with regards to that. And which I also learned at the last hearing was the one for bedrooms in the basement. And we tried to address that. I think that your point is definitely well taken. This was clearly a design feature which was supported by their butters and by the neighborhood association. So I would ask the board to give some credence to that. And if there is a particular design concern here, well, then I guess the board will act as it determines its choice. But I think that this has gone to an exhausted process on two occasions. And this is the one that we are presenting. Thank you, Councilor. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board. Denise Desanceles from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The beginning process of this proposal was conducted by a liaison previously, liaison prior to me. But they did have support from direct butters and as well as the association. And they went through a few different butters meetings with the community as well. Thank you. Madam Chair of the Secretary here, we do have three letters of opposition. Chair, I have a raise and a callers 7-816-36. I'm a State Chairman and I just put that request. Oh, I'm sorry. I did that by hand, but I have no comment. And I have no additional raise hands. I mean, given that information, may I have a motion, please? I could see a possibility of approval for three dwelling units. This is a 3F by 1,000. Okay, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with no living space in the lower level. And design review? And design review. Okay. Is there a second? Is there a second? Okay. I said, there are you sound like you're on the verge of saying something? Yeah, I hear the very broad concerns, but at the same token, we asked them not all bedrooms on the basement, they put bedrooms on the basement. We've approved projects like this before. Yes, but this is new construction. And usually what we do is we usually see retrofits. And that's what the difference is. Okay. Mr. Chair, I understand Mr. Chair too. And I'd like to do that. I think my issue on the lower level one is the one to the right as you face is all the way under. It's not the one to the left does take advantage of some of the site context toward the driveway side. And those windows are a little bit better, but the one on the right is basically under ground. So I just I'm not sure how to like, it's a little bit of a split decision. I'm trying to move it along. Yep. I'll second that the love. But the question that becomes then, is this, you know, given the fact that the unit on the right is entirely submerged, should it be a three family? I question to you with some expansion space in the basement as far as a playroom or whatever, whatever. So that in fact that is a more complete unit. And then, you know, the other two continuing to be the split levels. I mean, I did a quick take off. I don't have a problem with the four family. They could be one bedroom units on the main floor and still provide four units. So, but that's not up to me. That's the problem. So I wasn't going to address the number of units. Okay. So you're and your motion is for approval with design review with no basement occupancy. And also did we want to address the house or did we want to look for a permeable surface? Yeah. I think the design review specifically to the site planning and also Mr. Gimiko's comment on the parking maneuverability. So I think it can just have a site plan review with the architect. Okay. So there's a motion. There's a second. Did you second that, Mr. Rizuro? Yes, I did. Okay. Fortune. Aye. O'Lake. Opposed? Dong. Aye. Riziro. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Pinato. Aye. Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. I'm going to call it a motion carries with all those providers. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's now 1042. I'm going to call the 1030 hearings for any deferrals with Brawls. But this will be 1030 only for the Brawls with Brawls. Give the ad to first. Madam Chair, can I just make a quick comment if anyone's in the attend the section. I'm going to call the next case. The 930 calling the away 1327827130 Bremen Street. Change of auction with three families who are more family. Renovate the existence structure by adding a new fourth story. Also construct new red Jackson. The first one is the first one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one. The second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. who scored in the second corner. The second one is the second corner. The second one is the second corner. The second one is 14. The second one's the second corner. The second one's the second corner. A1 dash. A1 dash. at 890 square feet also with rare deck and egress stairs. And the new added floor on top is a proposed two bedroom, two bath, 870 square feet that has rare egress stairs and a rare deck. It does have a five foot three inch coin from the front of the building. There is no deck out there that was just the dead space for the building. So hold on, so you're within the flood lane. So is there any occupancy in the, in no, with the base flood elevation? There is no, we're not touching. Okay, good to know. Okay, and what is, what triggers root structure restrictions? It's the addition of the fourth floor out there. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. I think that, you know, this is, I'll say, I guess we're maybe setting a precedent. I mean, the entire block is a three story block. This is a fourth. I do appreciate the removal of the basement unit as even though it's illegal, I guess, but I guess the little bit of the question is are we accepting the, basically, moving that unit up to the fourth floor, floodplain issues, I guess. So I think there's some interesting questions in this, but I have really no questions about the actual proposal. If I may address your comment, Mr. Robinson, does fall within one of the main thoroughfares identified in Plannis, Boston, of recreational height density across the street. There isn't a proof right across from this. A 69 foot, a 69 foot six-story building, the one through BPDN and other one proposed. So we would be lower than the building, the buildings across the street. Yes. I understand. Thank you. I appreciate that. Please move. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I have a meeting with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, and a member of the committee was held on April 11th for this project, only one of our attended the meeting, and no concerns were raised. The applicant also met with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association in June. The group voted to support the project. They liked the layout of the units, as well as the facade of the building. Our office has received four letters of support as well, and at this time, our office would like to defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters. Thank you. So we need to just keep in mind that this is within the flood lane, even though there is no construction proposed in this area. And for this particular proposal, I do think we need to put it on the record that we are not supporting any occupancy within the flood lane. So can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review and no occupancy in the flood lane. Did not, did not either request for relief from Article 25 Section 5? Okay. Is there a second? Second. Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. No, I. I. I. Rosero. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Anato. Aye. Aroujo is also I's a motion carries with those provisos. Good luck. Thank you very much. Paulie, next case, Colleague LA 1344548653. This is a change of October from a six family and retail business to a six family and restaurant 36A violation 6. I have a 64 and a 68 restaurant takeout restaurant. Both additional uses. Amen. Add just to the record. My name is Nancy Lau. I'm one of the owners of the building. Joining me is Cari Lau, the mechanical engineer and Karen Cove, one of the business owners. They are proposing to have a small sushi restaurant at the grounds for level of this building. There will be 12 seats. And we, because there's a conditional use, that is why we're here for the board. There will be minimal construction and just, you know, my. Just a quick, a couple of questions. What is the official name of the restaurant? It is 311. 311 is the name of the restaurant? Yes. Okay. And you're providing 12 seats. Is the, does the applicant have a, does the proposed owner or operator have experience with takeout in the city of Boston? Yes. They have operated restaurants in Chattatown. And they have served sushi and that also provides takeout. Okay. How are the plans, Mr., and what's this is an NFL, a source of the condition. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are good. No question. And just for the board, the accessibility was relieved by the state. As well, one question, is there, doesn't appear any, there is cooking here or no cooking? Well, sushi is very minimal cooking. Yeah. The rice and soup. Sure. And the fish will be raw. Okay. So the fish is very soft. I just know there was some concern on some of the butter is about smell and I just wanted to confirm it. It seemed like I did not see any major cooking in here. I just want to. I'm assuming the refrigeration will be excellent. So any questions from the board? It was curious. What is the retail business in here now? There is no retail business. Since we reopened the building, we've had difficulties renting out the space and then with the pandemic. So there is no retail business there now. It was vacant. Thank you. Okay. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chairman, it's the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Services at this time of Mayor's Office. We have to defer judgment to the board. Our office held in the butter, meaning in June, we're unaware of any concerns in the community. Don't believe this will be a significant impact on the neighborhood. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, what is the support on opposition? Good morning, my hon. V.S. Members of the war. I'm a colleague from Council President Flings office. The councilor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm no good. Thanks. Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Fortune. What was the opposition based on? Close to the Sushi restaurant. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion approved. What the usual take-up of RIP. Verizon for this applicant only. Okay. Fortune. Hi. I'll leave. Okay. Done. I. I. V.S. Hi. Robinson. Canado. I. Ground Joe's eye. Robinson. Sorry. Motion carries. You're all set for those providers. Good job. I have to do it. Can I have the applicant? I'm assuming the applicant is not in this low. The owner of the restaurant. Yes, it's 3-1-1. The restaurant name. Can we get a vote for the roll one? Yeah. The federal roll. We don't want LLC. Or what's the corporate name of the restaurant name? I. Can we get a vote for the roll one? Yeah. The federal roll. We don't want LLC or what's the corporate name of the restaurant name? Mr. Low, you can send that information to ISD. Okay. In the meantime, let's move. Thank you. Thank you. Call your next page. Call your B.O.A. 134025. 1153-1155. Washington Street. This is directly a new five-story. It makes you use building with 24 residential units over 18-packed faces. With accessory amenity space and roof deck. Small retail space. Violation. Article 53, section 56, obfee parking. It's insufficient. Article 53, section 56, obfee loading is insufficient. Article 56, section 16, excessive FAR. Article 56, section 16. The building height has been exceeded. I'm an address for the record. Madam Chair, I'm going to move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, I'm sorry. This is a note to the applicant. This is a six-member board. And for approval you need five members in support. You have the option to proceed or to defer to a later date when there is a seven-member board. Good morning, Madam Chair. This is a board. My name is George Ferranzea. I'm an attorney with the Business Address, 350 West Broadway and Celopostin. This time we opt to proceed with the six-member board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Members, I represent Joe. We are Carrie, the first third-year inter-belver of this property located at 1153 Washington Street and George Hester's historic lower mill neighborhood. Add the concluence of Washington Street and the Adam Street. The site consists of a 12,101 square foot lot, which is currently occupied by a single-story commercial building, which is a convenience store and liquor store, with a large surface accessory parking lot. What is supposed to do is a new four-story mix use building to contain 24 dwelling units, including 4IDP units, for an IDP percentage of 17%. I'm sorry. Did you say it was a four or five-story? It's a four-story building. The zoning recunstual letter does recite five-story. It's four-story with a recessed amenity room on the roof that doesn't reach, actually, the size of being a full-story. Okay. Additionally, it would be approximately 1,655 square feet of ground floor commercial space with 18 accessory residential parking spaces located in the ground floor. Garage access from Washington Street and a total 29 residents in visitor bicycle spaces. And I said there would be a rooftop come and amenity room with a large common roof deck with elevator access. This is an article 80 Small Project, which was approved by the BBDA on July 14th. I'm chair of the unit mix consists of four one bedroom units of approximately 660 square feet and 22 bedroom units ranging in size from 852 square feet to 1221 square feet. The company zoning is article 65 and the site is located within an NS neighborhood shopping zoning stunt district. The company proposed project requires four variances. The zoning refusal letter site violation for insufficient hot street parking. 18 spaces are to be provided while pay-belette would require 35 spaces for the residential use and the commercial use. The provided parking ratio was determined by the BBDA and the transportation staff during the article 80 review process. In sufficient off street loading is also a site of violation building garage and its contained uses also one under what the great deal of review of the BBDA and city transportation staff. While not an identified loading doctor is an on program garage area adjacent to the elevated which can accommodate periodic move out and commercial loading activity. Variances needed for excessive floor area ratio with proposed FAR 2.4 in the maximum under zoning of one and the building requires a high variance with the maximum of 40 feet under zoning and a proposed height of 46 feet to the roof of the building and 57 feet to top of the smaller rooftop amenity room which is well set back from all public ways. Building height and massing are derived from careful study of the site context and urban conditions. Architecturally the building's expression is regarded almost as an extension of the historical Baker chocolate new buildings from which the proposed project takes significant design and massing views. Adam here, Michael Delafay from Rode Architect is here and both he and I are available to answer any questions that the board may have. Yes, tell us again what the ID come me IDP units. There would be four IDP units unit 204 and 968 square foot two bedroom unit 208 at 661 square foot one bedroom unit 305 if a 1,070 square foot two bedroom and unit 307 a 1,024 square foot two bedroom unit. So that's three two bedrooms and one one bed correct and let me see how the plans are Mr. Olic. Plans are nice. Just a couple of questions. I would respect to the height excessive height. It is concerned considerably higher than the immediate about in buildings but you know if you take the whole neighborhood as a whole with a chocolate factory I suppose it does fit in but that's an issue. So my question for the architect has to do with the amenity space is not clear how that works and what that is and how high it is et cetera. I'm sorry to say like this is the rooftop amenity space. Yes. Yes. So if the architect is. This is this is Mike Delefay from the architects business address 535 Albany Street in the south end. Madam ambassador can you go to page nine please. Thank you. So you can see in the lower left hand corner right hand corner there's a small amenity space of about 900 square feet. This is basically to provide a conditioned area for the elevator to exit out of for the common roof deck which has two. Can I just can I just hold on can everybody just hold on for a moment. I understand that the citations on this are all in accurate article 53 is East Boston article 56 is West Roxbury. This is something doesn't add up. Yes. I'm an chair. I do see. I refuse a letter citing article 53 and 56. I'm sorry. So you know what can we have this deferred to the next meeting please. No I suppose it needs to be advertised correctly. So how long will that take for advertising? I'm out of chair this is on the place of about 30 days to advertise we could probably do at this point. October or five. Thank you. You can be advertised. Okay. May I have a motion for the for all please. Motion to the federal. Dr. Taylor. Fortune. Hi. Oleg. Hi. Don. Hi. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'll just all say. So we are looking at Mr. Fortune. 10 for at 11 30. That is correct. Hey, sorry about that. Good catch. I don't care. It wasn't me, but thank you. Okay. I didn't catch it. I'm going to call the hearings that we have. How about this, Mr. Fortune. Let's finish high park ab and then we will do everything together. Okay. Full pleasure. Following the next case, going to be on the one three five two three eight six 72 high park avenue. This is demolishing existing structure. We have six unit residential bill with six parking spaces. The violation of the article 55. Section 40. be packing his insufficient. Article 55 Section 12 of the Florentine Ratio is excessive. Article 55 Section 9, a lot of whippers insufficient. Article 55 Section 9, the Bill of the Hens Excessive and Stories. Article 55 Section 9, this idea is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Derek Small, have a business of Jessoth on the option road. With me today is the architect for the five-jack David Choi, who was also on the call. Madam Chair, just one correction with regard to the relief you are seeking. We are seeking relief to elect a building for six residential units, but we are providing no off-small apartments to bases. And I'll come to that and I get to the parking submission violation. So again, we're here seeking relief to minus the district structure, the record building for six residential units. The zoning sub-discbric is a BF-5,000, our lot size is 6,200 for splurgery, and the violations are as follows. Off-speed parking, we're required to provide 1.2, 5, we are providing none. So Madam Chair, originally in the original plans for this proposal, we had provided six parking spaces underneath. But in meeting with the community, you name it Council and your butters, there was some issue with regard to entering and exiting the parking spaces off of high-part avenue. As you know, high-part avenue is two lanes, in that section of park, that's two lanes, both ways, and with the community thought that would be an issue, getting in and out of excitement. That being said, in addition, we are located directly across to the White Hills T-station. So Madam Chair, it's a guided go ahead, talk about the additional violations. So we're also cited for FAR, the required FAR is 0.6, E are proposing 1.3, lot width, lot width requirement is 40 feet, our lot is 50 feet wide. So we think that we were cited here, erroneously, in the Special Services Department, with regards to the building height, Madam Chair, in this zoning sub-discbric, the building height requirement is three stories at 35 feet. We are providing three stories at 32, seven inches. So we're coming in below 35 foot requirement as well. But as far as the number of stories, you're at three stories. That is correct. Okay. Then the final violation was the side yard requirement is 10 feet, and we are providing six at the smallest base on both sides. Okay. So tell us about the units. So the first two floors, we have three bedroom to bath units in our approximately 1,300 square feet. And on the third floor, we have two bedrooms to bath at approximately 1,300 square feet as well. We are providing no living space at the basement, as that is going to be storage and like rats. Parliament, regard to the proposal. And how design is the design contextual to what's going on on that end of Hyde Park Avenue? Because I know there's that new construction across the street, but there are some older houses on this side of the street. Right. So I propose a four six unit dwelling to the, if you're looking at this picture, currently showing there's another six unit building left of us. Directly to the right there's a four unit and directly to the right of that is another six unit building as well. So if you scroll down a little bit, I think let us control my monitor. You'll see in context, just go down I think two more slides. You can see how it fits into the, that's the existing picture. But yeah, it contextually fits right into the neighborhood with regard to the other six unit. And I'm assuming that you will protect that street tree on, okay. We're just planning on some Mr. Robinson. Plains are good. I think it is consistent with the block in the street. And I think my only real question was, is the front yard setback in terms of looks a little bit further forward than some of the adjacent buildings, but we can address that with the BPD design review. No questions from me. I need questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at the Supervisor? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and neighborhood services. At this time, the Mayor's Office referred judgment to the board's background information on the community process. ONS Health and the butter is meeting on January 27th, 2022. The meeting was very likely attended, but questions were raised by direct butter's concerning green space, tree maintenance, as well as concern related to the building height and affordable housing. There's a lot of feedback this meeting, but no opposition was expressed by attendees. This proposal received support from the Jamaica Plain, the JPMC's Elin Committee, and this time an air source for judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have two support letters. Okay, Mr. Small, you know, the site may prevent this, but will any of those units be handicapped accessible? David, do we have any handicapped and sustainable units on that? We do not have a handicapped and sustainable unit, but we have a medical vision to add anything that would be required to. So, I mean, I'm just thinking about access from the street because you are, you know, you didn't have a little bit of a slope, but okay, so we heard from everybody. Madam Chair, it's Paul Sodium City Council, Michael Ferry's office, Council Head to Long Record and Support. Thank you. Okay, thank you. VPD8, the VPD, I have a recommendation. Thank you, Madam Chair, I'm disappointed. We recommended approval with desired review. You may have a motion, please. Motion on approval with VPD and design of it. Okay. Fortune. Hi. Helen. Hi. No. Hi. Michelle. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Benado. Hi. A round you as also I, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. I'm Jim. Support. I'm good day. Madam Chair, it's now 11. I'm going to call the hearings that we had last Thursday, on August 18th at 5 p.m. at 1010 Mass Ella. HBOA 5654 8226 Union ad was deferred to the full board today. HBOA 1265152 10% cost of repeat was deferred till its September 15th, 2022 at 5 p.m. HBOA 12955987 Rock Road was the removered old Red Deck and built a bathroom addition in New Red Deck was approved. HBOA 1332 110 200 Turtle Pond Parkway reprimanded a second floor extended second story. I was approved with BPD. A HBOA 13519515 Maple Street was was to replace a 77 foot with 6 foot fence with a 77 8 foot fence. It was approved with provisos BPD review for visibility and exterior and plantings. HBOA 1337104 25 Rosston Road. It's a second floor dormer addition and half bathroom approved with BPD.A. HBOA 1337466 438 Main Street is an addition of the third floor and attic playroom approved with BPD.A and no basement, no renewed space with basement space. HBOA 1339956 127 Train Street was the proposed second floor addition was approved with BPD.A. HBOA 134148274 Baga Street was attached to Tiger Rage playroom was approved with BPD.A. With no bathroom above garage and a half bath. HBOA 13433014 The Lionel Park was renovating existing third floor was approved with BPD and attention to the design of the dormer. HBOA 13506936611113 was extended up living space was approved with BPD.A. HBOA 13518122 a million terrorists is adding an addition to the top of the bill and second floor approved with BPD.A. HBOA 135968025510 Road. It's a spectacular three-story addition was approved with BPD.A. and Park review and the other P pod. Then on the rediscussions case B.A.A 1336189254 Chester Avenue was extended driveway to the park vehicles on the side of the house who was deferred to the full board on 10-4 HBOA 1343120330k Street was denied without prejudice that concludes the subcommittee before motion to accept the recommendations of the supplement second watching oh like all right dawn hi green hero hi Robinson hi minato hi round is also ice emotion carries everybody wasn't on early i'm going to call attend 30 hearings for any deferral withdrawal dot hear me earlier you could just give me the address you are going to defer your project at 10 30 hearing none will call it for his case all done mr. fortune uh man make just make a quick comment um there are a number there some of the projects coming up we have received a lot of comments in support plan in opposition i will recommend that each applicant figure out five people to speak in support five people to speak in opposition we would like to hear new information from each speaker and these five exclude elected officials or representatives of elected officials it is now 1115 the board will take a 10 minute break and we'll resume at 1125 you because i notice there are a large number of recent attendees i will read portions of my opening remarks for for this virtual hearing um so the city of Boston zoning board for peel hearing for eight twenty three twenty twenty two is continues to be in session it is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law uh going on to a later part of the opening comments as with our in person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition the order of comments is as follows elected officials representatives of elected officials and members of the public the chair may limit the number of people call upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require for that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project you wish to comment on an appeal please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform click it again and your hand should go down when the host sees your hand you will receive a request unmute yourself select yes and you should be able to talk if you are connected to the hearing please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself again star nine to raise and lowers your your hand and star six to unmute yourself as i mentioned before i would like to have five people on those projects where there is a great demand to be heard five people in support five people in an opposition use your time before the case gets called to organize um mr. Riziro um i may have to ask you if you can continue to be if you can function as secretary um because our um we uh our secretary has a previous commitment at one o'clock um and definitely that madam chair just so you know um time is stepped in if you take the debate okay i i'd rather have a follow protocol and have a board member read it um secondly i know for the reconsideration in the event that a six member board is not um will will be um if a six member board will be seated when the case for 82 to 84 Boston street ward seven is called um i just will put you a notice that i know you had requested a full board so i just will put you a notice about that okay um given all that let me do a roll call mr. fortune okay around here mr. o'lake go mr. don as a mr. Riziro mr. Robinson here mr. fanato here and i do see mr. Riziro mr. riziro sorry i was muted no worries let's go ahead thank you madam chair i'm going to call the 1030 the first case probably case bla132 0542 114 t lice district this is directly new two story high school structure by laced article 51 section 56 Audrey Pagny's insufficient article 51 section 9 the floreter ratio is excessive an article 51 section 9 beside the uh is insufficient they may add to the record later. Morning madam chair uh members of the board attorney john philgini uh tenfolds wrote on behalf of the uh the other hint uh Austin mess if to high school uh with me on this call is Richard Peselli uh the project got to get architect together with rabbi Moshe well-hound who is the principal of the high school miss if the high school is an all-boys Jewish high school which has been located at 114 light s's reef opposed to a decking currently the high school houses approximately 53 students and the proposal before you was to erase existing building and construct a new two story school with five austere parking spaces the violations is mr. fortune stated f a r 0.5 or a two four one austere parking 13 spaces required we're at five i should note the boys are not allowed to drive the school and is most uh from the immediate area of the boys take bikes and school to school each day uh we have a side yard the violation of um required is 12 feet we're 12 feet one on left side seven foot three on the right side the purpose of this proposal before you was to allow for the addition of approximately 17 students and allow for some social distancing issues discovered during the pandemic faculty will not be just uh increasing and there are no really five faculty members of the school for any given time the faculty also carpost to the school to make use of or make use of other transportation to get to and from school the proposed layout is the basic level of potato lunchroom kitchen lockers bathroom storage and mechanicals the the sailing height is nine feet and there are two stairways to egress the first floor has two classrooms and some offices and the second floor has a classroom allibrating bathrooms in open meeting space um that's pretty much the proposal um you get to answer any questions like I stated the principal together with the architect corpus call flow uh yes so um so there's five off-street parking provided there's five faculty um how much other support staff how many staff in total including faculty that is it that's so anyone given time they'll only be five um I'll say adults but staff on premises okay got it okay um how are the plans um mr. Robinson uh plans look good no questions very straightforward in terms of the proposal i don't have any questions for or the proponent any questions from the board is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal good morning madam chair members of the board Frank Mendoza also brightens liaison to the mayor's office of neighborhood services here to foreign to deferring to the judgment of the board the applicant that had in the butters meeting July six uh the butters had some questions and concerns which the applicant addressed and answered and offered to meet with the butters offline the applicant also attended the July 14th meeting of the bright and also improvement association civic group and received the support of that civic group as well at this time i'd like to defer to the judgment of the board thank you madam chair secretary here we do have one letter of support before that is an opposition that's one yes uh uh uh um mr. fortune what's the opposition based on they're opposed to the private road and problems um keeping up with the texture of the area okay okay thank you um recording stopped recording in progress this meeting is being recorded for given that information man i'm a motion please madam chair secretary oh yes thank you for reminding you yet ready yet to speak either in support or in opposition okay a few breaks can't hear and um new station name and address for the work of the police once i'm here perhaps that was very brown next station name and address for the other people please can i hear from if anybody who has a raised hand and who is not and a butter to the project please lower your hand if you're in a butter please keep your hand raised Sarah hi can you hear me yes okay can you say your name? sir yes i live at 1776 comma well-to-have in the embrighon and my son attends the msifta high school thank you sure um i am very much in favor of the project um the building is obviously already a school thank you thank you mr. Holland okay we do have mwe from councilor um mfuse office i'm gonna go ahead you're looking to get testimony here you're on you okay i'm gonna mean some i'll go to call her uh 7 8 1 8 8 can you say your name and address for the work of those come here all right go ahead are you looking to get testimony here okay i'll go to the bed and then can you say your name and address for the directors sure what the issue is you're looking to get testimony for this project can you hear me yeah are you in a butter? i am on a butter yes um please put your name and address on the record i need to say uh 96 good enough to read uh then he helped in bian upto and um i'm also representing 25 of the butters i have signatures so i've submitted to flirty brain counselor Murphy's office is um basically you submitted it to the board because that's where it counts yeah i uh email the co-calling companies because it's on board thank you so are you ready to travel you're in support i'm in opposition i'm in opposition on for what reason uh rodents and over-proven over-crowning and uh explain that a bit um well there are 55 years there i don't understand why the cancer's keep at 55 you're not the 70s and successive and the room problem in all is the great has been out of control due to the 12 commercial structures that basically are sprinkled right around our neighborhood and it's it's been pretty bad that everyone has that put money into their house or wrap through their homes or the economy i think it's a wide problem but thank you yeah um next next column please Benjamin Ramos thing um i am the second director of Torah Academy representing 100 plus families of which 80% live within a mile radius of the project and you're in support i am in support i also have a child in the school and live within a three four-minute walk i'm sorry to rush along but we uh we uh just jammed hot today so uh thank you for your patience um so that's good hi i'm Roberta often i live at 96 good and on straight i am in a butter um my husband was just talking before i just want to comment more on what he was saying oh thank you we are we are good thank you but can i have it there a representative can i have everybody muted and there a representative from ba i am okay um so given and um bpda did you have a recommendation uh thank you madam chair members of boychef answered bpda how we recommended approval with design reviews okay may i have a motion i'll make a motion to approve with bpda design review second um fortune hi alec hi dong hi rjiro hi Robinson hi pinato hi arousa also in support some motion carries with approval with design review and we will ask um the applicant to make a strong effort and do they have everything to the best of them ability in their construction management plan to um to deal with the road issue in the community thank you thank you falling into the next case calling the L.A. 132 355 8 63 deliberate avenue this is the race of one story building in erected four story 31 unit of pop and children with amenities space of 34,096 square feet 30,150 square feet with 22 garage parking spaces underneath with elevator act calling that's all the violation dotical 67 612 sets of height on the 67 section 12 the number of a lot of stories has been exceeded on the 67 section 12 except for that they are atical 67 section 12 inscription side yard setback abouting the residential subbed for atical 67 section 12 inscription really at a setback atical 67 section 11 one story residential conditional is conditional atical 67 section 32 inscription parking atical 67 section 32 inscription lowering bay areas that proposed an atical 67 section 32 parking space design sizes and maneuverability amen just for the record hold on before anybody gets on um this is a project we've gotten a lot of feedback on via email i would like to ask five members of the community it warrants support and five members who are in opposition to use the time now to raise your hand and to decide who will speak i will require and ask everybody to give us new information okay new information only if something new has our our interest in has already been commented on just put your name and address on the record okay so thank you um applicant put your name and address on the record madam chair members of the board attorney Ryan spits out into maranxi with the business address of 168 H street south Boston with me today is the advocate Michael fluid and as well as the architect Jason highland the project was located on two passes of land located on Belgrade ab and Rosadil neighborhood which consists of approximately 13,100 square feet the coincide is a vacant one story from nor hall is the holes or the proposals to construct the new four-story residential rental building with 31 units totaling approximately 34,096 per-story area there'll be 23 below grade parking spaces and 31 advice for parking spaces this proposal went through an extensive bpda article eating small project review so please talk to us about the about the what is being proposed you know go go and talk us through it we'll hear about community process elsewhere so there are 15 one-bedroom units and 16 two-bedroom units all ranging from 779 square feet to a thousand and eighty square feet again i'm sorry the two bedrooms range from what all of them are range from from even the 15 one bedrooms range from seven hundred and seventy nine square feet to one thousand and eighty square feet and how many IDPs we're going to have six we're going to be in line with the mayor's initiative of a 20 percent so four of those units will be at 70 percent AMI and two will be at 100 percent AMI project is located within the neighborhood shopping district will be in need of a conditional youth permit for the first story being residential FAR which being proposed here is a 2.6 allowable by code is a 1.0 as you can see is that we're seeking a variance on the height what's being proposed is four stories at 43 feet the fourth floor you can see from the plants is actually set back in the rear towards the train tracks which is our butter in the rear of the loft the minimum the minimum rear yard as you can see is which required is a 10 feet is allowed we're proposing four and a half feet to the abutting MBTA tracks we're actually 10 feet away from the from the dwelling to the property line but because of the decks and the rear brings us brings us to five and a half feet parking violation we it was an extensive process through the article 80 work together with the Boston Transportation Department which derived the actual parking spaces at 23 total spaces including the 31 bike stations there will also be an additional bike station but what is required and is owning for residential use it is it's two spaces per unit so that would be 62 okay okay and then talk to us about the side yard set back from the abutting it is listing residents hi this is Jason Arctex this is atrocious 350 in a street Boston the buildings aren't going to load to each other but the building on the left is ranges from 14 to 17 feet from our our building and the building on the right would be 19 to 21 feet and so from the adjacent residential use what's required from zoning from from the adjacent residential use yes the there is a residential structure adjacent to this property what's what's required by zoning for the side yard so if we can pull off the to the side yard hold bear with me one second we are not seeking you know a variance on the on the side actually we ask you know but we are seeking yes yes and I don't know it's and it could be both both sides because I notice that you are to the property line on the that's you're looking at sorry you're looking at the existing survey if you can go one more down we're that's the proposed so Jason if you can give the exact dimensions of of what the chair woman is asking for the side yard yeah so we're at 14 foot nine on the right here where we're going to have a proposed driveway which is actually where we're reducing we're eliminating the set back on that side from the existing building which is up to zero law line and then on the left side we're at with berries once again because of the property but we're five feet from the law line up to 8.2 at the front and number 57 ball grade I noticed was on is on the market there's the there's the propiona intent to purchase that no no because it looks like this building is almost a property line to property line so tell us is there any outdoor deck or anything like that proposed yes madam chair there there is an outdoor deck on the roof which will be a common deck which can be accessed by elevator and there's also two stairways that will be asked one thing I also do want to notate to going back to actually the parking is that there's currently two existing curb cuts on this property one of the curb cuts which is on the left hand side if you're looking at the building head on will be restored and that will provide additional parking spaces back to on street in the neighborhood okay um the property owner owns a lot across the street will that is there any plan for use of that um Michael is here with us today I can I can speak to that so that with that property actually we do not own it was purchased by I believe a tcd bank in rothville square okay so so we can expect another development on that side I assume I very currently using it for parking the bank purchased it I don't know what their intent is but right now it's being used for additional parking because there are a lot at the bank I think it's smaller than what they need for the customers okay so can you show us what the proposed building look like when all is done so Jason we'll just leave the exact page number I believe it's towards the end of the yeah I think you're not to keep scrolling here yeah this this is a perspective looking down though great I don't know this is the entrance of the building we're taking design cues from Ross and Del Square with some of the articulation with brick in addition grabbing some other rhythm from the buildings further down Belgrade Avenue that's the a little bit of the context that we're grabbing from in Ross and Del Square if you go down three or four pages from here there'll be a collection of renderings um uh real quick I'll just sum the uh yeah the front elevation here and then there'll be a couple more as uh the following pages and the rendering up in context. Madam Chair as you can see from the front elevation is is that the four is set back and then also as you can see is that the the front of the building has been set back to comply with the front elevation back of the ten. It's a model setback okay um let me see there was one other thing um loading what is their loading provided on site. Jason I'm going to defer to you regarding the loading and sure um if you look at a one hundred of the uh plans we are proposing at the bottom of the garage ramp there'll be a 17th foot um place where someone could pull off their truck to load and unload a 17th foot truck is that adequate for for providing loading and unloading for a two-inch on the parking lot oh sorry that's one yep okay and so the roof deck is open are there restrictions on hours of use of that roof deck. I'm not quite sure it might be led to the community process uh it was their conversation attainable to the actual use of the hours of operation. There is no there is no conversation about that but that is something that we definitely be open to um hearing. Yes because you know we ask the board here a lot of issues about use of roof deck especially if this is going to be um rental and and access would be through how many means if I eat actually three means of access so one would be accessed through the elevator and then it's to uh to two two stairways through the two headhouses that are on the top. Yeah I think we would be willing to restrict access starting you know nine or ten o'clock at night. Okay okay um how on the plans Mr Robinson? Plains there um plans are good and you know I think the the context on the street is it is consistent it's obviously bigger than some of the surrounding buildings but I think the base on the front and break with the setback help mitigate some of that height and then I just I I did want to make sure that there is a you know the side yard on the right is increased a visible unclear in that site plan because they had the existing overlayed in the news so there is quite a good setback on the right hand side the left hand side a little bit tighter um but in terms of the proposed project in terms of configuration right and the real questions and I'm not concerned as much about the rear setback just because it is up against the MVTA track so yeah this the the thing I think about though is the residents from those units um you know feeling impact every time one of those because it is raised at that point um feeling the impacts of that grill or that line going by I don't disagree with you but I think that's um I don't think an extra ten feet is going to help with that either so I think that's okay because I know the building up by um pulling by um west rotsbury parkway because it's setback and it's a grade you don't feel it um but um I think and we approve the ones on quarry that seem to be but it was a seem to be um almost completed um but they had um access to the garage on that end of the it's kind of thinking through what what we've seen good point thank you um is uh any questions from the board now chair I think Mr. Dominguez both and I don't know please on oh yes uh Mr. Fortuna it's uh blocked the meco-bossal transportation department um and like to request the proviso um that the proponent worked uh myself with regards to clarifying the parking design the turning radius there are several concerns I have I'm not going to avoid the board with this but I don't like that the proviso to work with the proponent just to uh turn the vice the issues I have with the parking design thank you um okay um any questions from the board um is anybody here to speak okay so get out the money right in chairman was a requirement is to go to the mayor's office and the services um he paid how the meeting for this and my study first from the community there were concerns about okay there were some concerns about parking um a lot of people weren't favorite this as long as um that was going to parking uh by the way it moves parking spots there were some people that had some concerns and wanted it to be smaller because it didn't go with the look of the community due to the green space some community members went favorite our first project my office received uh two letters of opposition and one letter of support and the most office applied to the project to the grid. Madam Chair secretary here we do have members of the opposition and on support. Good afternoon Madam Chair thank you so much uh good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Jordan free us here for counselor Ricardo Royals office which states to go on record and support this proposal thank you and chairman's board of policies to the council lodge Michael Flarety come with your own right in support. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Emily Paul Stanton from counselor Louisiana's office we would like to go on record and support. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board actually if you counsel on Murphy's office we've heard voices full support and opposition uh support from local groups and organizations in the area opposition from some of the small businesses as well as directed butters with all that consider we like the deferred under the board thank you. No. So John's relevant and then Alan right. Anybody who's not in a butter please lower your hand and miss and anybody who's um I and notice there is not enough representation from people who are on the phones so if anybody who's on the phone and is interested in speaking please raise your hand I will again ask that you keep your comments to um you as as direct as possible okay so go ahead. Hi my name is Alan right I live less than three blocks away I need support of this project as it's proposed I want to ask please put your name and address you if we'll address on the record. 98 Verge Street Rosalindale Alan Wright thank you and I'm going to go on record and support of this project as it's proposed I want to address briefly the issues about not enough parking this building is one block from the commuter rail station thank you thank you thank you thank you for the long while I will ask anybody to not use transportation multimodal transportation because we also know that the cost of transportation on that commuter rail is high and beyond the reach of some residents with limited incomes so I would like to just leave that aside and just go and please talk to us about about the project can I hear from the next person. Stuart Henry me can you say your name and address please. I don't Stuart Henry 18 clip to know it's straight from Rosalindale I'm at full support of this also I think this is going to be great for the community it's a three minute walk down to this to the square it'll be a great support for the new coffee shops and restaurants down there and all the shops in general thank you. Dr. Irene can you station your name and address for the record please. Dr. Adam name and address for the record please which one you used on. Hello. Hi. Hello. You may be seated. This is Dr. Irene Gauron-Eitis I am a director of the butter I own the properties next door 55 and 57 bell grade up I have an office of 57 bell grade up I will invite this on a occasional basis and I am in full support of this project we've lived in the area for the past 50 years and I think we'll be looking for Rosalindale and there are some residents and also the square thank you thank you. Dr. Irene Gauron-Eitis Joseph Harney. Dr. Irene Gauron-Eitis Joseph Harney. Dr. Irene Gauron-Eitis Joseph Harney. Dr. Irene Gauron-Eitis Joseph Harney. Hello. My name is Joseph Harney I live on 317 bell grade up I'm a lifelong resident I am in full support of the project I believe will bring more professionals to the community like myself and I am in full support thank you. Madam Andrew Henry. Madam Andrew I am in full support of the only issue is I think it has too many parking spaces and would have a few free frames but other based support. Are these static styles? Hi, my name is Elizabeth Saras. I live at 85 Bell Grade Avenue, which is three doors down from where this building is proposed to be put up. I am in the opposition. There is already a lack of parking for the residents who live on that street. There definitely should be more parking spaces for the amount of units proposed. If anything, you should reduce the unit and increase the parking spaces. Thank you. John, I'm going to move in at this for the back. Hello, can you hear it? Yes. Thank you. I'm John Dresden. Thank you, Brookfield Street. I'm speaking in opposition. In addition to the things that have been mentioned, the lack of commercial use on the first floor. The way you can see along the use before is important. Also, I have a bedroom that faces where the deck will be. I'm very much in opposition of them building a decked freeze. And so a restart building more in line with what was built in the next floor. I think it's a great avenue with more parking and with commercial use. I think it's a neighbor who's a lot better. Thank you very much. Okay. That's none user. I'm sorry to move in. I just got back a phrase. Hi, my name is Megan Alpus. I'm here with Josay Alpus. We are both residents and property owner at 75 Gold Great Alps. Obviously, the building is way too close to our property line. We are actually the current fence is actually in the current location. So it's even closer to our property line than in these designs. We have issues with parking. Obviously, there's a lot of parking issues on the street. There's not enough crosswalks. The amount of families going to be put inside that building to be crossing the street to get to their cars and the other time the street. Multiple times it has been nearly hit by cars on the concrete out. Because of that. And yeah, basically, we very much opposed this building. Yeah, and the height of the building is also issue. It's going to completely block our building. And if we fall, falls high, you know, we're going to be totally losing out the view that we want to look at, Rosendale Square. So it's really, I don't have any problem with the building there. This is just too big. And it has to be worked out better than that. So we have opposed to that. Lauren Murray. Yes, 49 August this afternoon, we're in Rosendale good morning. I wish to testify in opposition. I'm going to summarize the opposition of the Rosendale Square small business community who submitted letters that you have. These are the letters that I'm aware of. 15 different small businesses are represented by the owners managers and employees who submitted the letters. 75% of the 12 owners who oppose and write in your Latinx black Asian immigrants. 83% of women. Other owners and boys are opposition. However, they will not submit testimony for fear of losing customers. You received 40 letters from customers, the majority of which are Rosendale residents. The vast majority and they oppose the development. They support their businesses. The square and the last three one two are parking spaces as a result of the BTG. Street changes and around 10 or 10 are lost in the units for a lot. And the vast majority of the 31 losses were experienced by immigrant and black owners. The most important thing is that the state of the state is not the only one that is affected. We'll make the parking situation worse by my calculations that we'll redo the BPD. The streetscape changes will likely cost another four to six parking spaces. So we're asking you to deny the variance. Thank you very much. We only have a couple more people. Alex G. Boko and Mr. Perez. Fine. All right. Okay. I was going. Hi. My name is Alex Chiburgo. I live in own seven oldest place in Rosendale. And I am in support of this crowd. There. I'm here. Thank you. That's the community. And this is. Thank you. All right. So. Let's see. Good morning. I know. Good morning. I'm one of my one shared members of the board of mine. I'm a place where some of the carpenters in New York will like to go in front of the car. Thank you. Okay. So I think we've all heard about support opposition and the impact on the neighborhood. I think that this. My. My. My concern is the four story and the impact on the abiding residential use. But I do think there's a lot of American in this case. So may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to improve. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. With BPA designer view. And I think. Not sure it's possible, but it would be nice to. If they could focus on the left hand side yard to see if there's any opportunity to increase that side. As it relates to that abiding property. At the white with BTV Mr. Alvarez. Oh, yes. Sorry. And Mr. Domingo and BTV on. I think with that side yard increase. That shouldn't include any option for. Moving that the fourth floor backs. That's a good. That's a good. That's a good. That'd be helpful. Yes. It's not just a thick wall that the abadder is looking at. Yeah. Okay. So. Let's see. Okay. Okay. You'll second that. So 14. Hi. Are you? Hi. Are you? I'm a dog. I. Do you know? No. Robinson. Yes. And I know. I. Is it the time? The road gel is I. But I do have reservations about the look of the building, the closeness to the railroad tracks. And the obvious parking impact it will have. And also the fact that there are no three bedrooms to accommodate families in our neighborhood, which may be tipping the scale somewhere else. So motion, however, carries so good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's not so old. Five. I'm going to call the 1130. We discussed in the key. One can make it. And we will have a point. Yes. So again, the this board will within an hour lose a member. So to other to other requirements. So we will have a six member board. If anybody is uncomfortable with a six member board, can request the deferral to a later date when there is a seven member board. Soon after that, we will lose another member to some other commitment. So just have that in mind. So if anybody, so if you want to request a deferral administrative deferral, please feel free to do so. And especially making note to the applicant who is scheduled for a new time. We have your appropriate discussion. Still prior to that. But so go ahead. I will call the 12 o'clock and go on Madam Chair, but this is the lay 1130. Re-discussions or anybody who is deferring or withdrawing it. Give it the address, please. I'm sorry. Madam Chair, I'm actually not deferring, but I'm more of an inquiry. I have a matter that I believe one member will need to recuse. And I know that's on further down the list, 1130. My concerns we've deferred several times before because of a five number board. I'm fearful that we'll also have a five number board again when that case is called. I'm just wondering if it's possible to call that while Mr. Fortrune is still present. What is the address? 221 East Eagle Street. We will call that out of sequence after 40 to 42 cross street. Are there any other just deferred or withdrawals for the 1130 cases? Yes. Peter, I see your hand is out. I'm sending your request and you're looking for the floor. Are they okay? Are you late, sir? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair. Peter Comhansky from Ghoston and Stores, 400 Atlantic Avenue at Boston. Representing the applicant in common for 40 street. We respectfully requested deferral until a hearing date in December. Either December 6th or December 13th to continue to work on the issues raised at the last year. Can I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Second. Second. Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Long. Aye. Mr. O. Aye. Robinson. Aye. Monado. Aye. Raukja's also aye. Motion carries. The date, please. We can do either whatever the council would like to see the 6th or 13th. We can do either one. Whatever is going to be happy. Make them work. 6th or the 13th. Aye. The 13th for the applicant, if that's the question. December 13th at 1130. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals over throttles to the 1130 cases? I would, Kevin Joyce, a 2901 D.C. street, 1-5. Okay. Will the wrecking, calling D.O.A. 1336832, 2901 D.C. street. Namenedad, just to the wrecking. Kevin Joyce, to all you know, I was 50 Frank, a street monster, a mass. This case is a bit controversial. I'd prefer to have. Okay. You're requesting a deferral. You say, okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Is there a sign? Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Oleg. Dung. Aye. Rosero. Robinson. Anato. Aye. Around the Alps, aye. The date, please. You can do a couple of short at 1130. I'll tell them before the 1130. Okay. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? 31130. Oh, hello. I'm unable to get on to chat. I don't know why. You're requesting a deferral or not? Yes, for 26, 28, you can have. Okay. So may I have a motion, please? Kevin for deferral. Thanks, sir. A sign. Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Dung. Aye. Rosero. Aye. Oleg. Robinson. Aye. Anato. Aye. Rojo also in support of the date, please. We can do a total of four to 1130. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Thank you. For the 1130 cases. Okay. I see a little bit of me. Thank you, Senator. Can you please call 12 o'clock. I am. I am. Madam. I just want to make sure there's nothing else for 1130. Okay. I'm going to call a reconsideration for 12 o'clock. Are you going to defer or withdraw? Are you going to move forward? Hello. Hello. Yes, we can hear you. Okay, I'm sorry. So I'm breaking up with me. I've been on the whole of the 1130. But it's coming in and out. I'm here for 295 west of street and opposition. And I'm not sure if they defer to us. Madam, chair. No, sorry. I want to take care of that matter. Here. Up to the street. We will hear that. So stay on. I'm right, right. Yeah. Right now. Yeah. Right now. She must be. We will call it. Okay. Okay. Call. Call the next day. Call. Call. Call the next case. Calling B.O.A. 132-829-634-O. Street. The sick construct a three-story 20-unit residential building with 11 underground parking spaces. And posing one elevator. Highly statical 69-section 11. The residential use on the first floor has been Article 69, Section 29. Osterie parking and loading. An Article 69, Section 30.1. Performing with an existing building on. Okay. Before we start getting any testimony again, we have a mixed bag on our emails about support and opposition on Oak Street. So before we get started, I will ask people to raise their hands, five in support, five in opposition. And I want to hear from butters, please. Okay. Go ahead. Mr. Bullt. I'm not sure I was on mute. I apologize. No worry. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Paul Gini, 10-foot road on behalf of the applicant, Mr. Gregor, also with us is Ryan Sprague from Embark Studios, it's Team Architect. 30-foot Oak Street in Hyde Park, the zoning in this neighborhood, neighborhood shopping two. Lot size is 9,747 square feet. This is an article 80 project. It was put early this year. The polls before you was to basically existing funeral home, which has been vacant for approximately 10 years and built a three-story 20-unit residential building with 10, actually the 11 Oskie Park and spaces. Residential, go to the violations, Madam Chair. Please explain to us what the project is before we go to the violations. It's a raising and existing defunct funeral home, making sure that a 20-unit residential development with 11 Oskie Park and spaces. So please tell us the breakdown on the units. Is there a root park? There's no root park. Okay. There is no root park. There are 9 two bedroom units. There are approximately 970 square feet. There are three studio units and they range from 550 to 600 square feet and there are 8 one bedroom units and there are approximately 664 square feet. Is there a common space? We have common space. This is not a compact living. I know. But just asking. Tell us about the parking. Is there what should we look at to see the parking? I don't know if you're on. If you could be on the unit, Ryan Spray. Yes. Because we have coils, so we go into the parking. It's a remote healthcare facility. And it's the segregate center. Can you get get a shit. You can scroll down. I could show you while waiting for him. train station, the access to the parking garage is off of the business street. As we went through, this is kind of an important piece, as we went through the article A process, the BTD is together with the Boston BPPA transportation engineers. The fact that there's a triangle parcel that separates the divides business street, there's two way traffic on both sides of that triangle. The city requested us part of that during this project that we discontinue the side of that that would be closest to our building because a Zadilis pedestrian hazard and by doing so, and by doing so we would provide a public park for the community and night park. largest this proposed park. It's probably the width of a street because of a triangle. I don't know Brian's Greg maybe on the street. I miss projects. I'm not a giant man of gee I miss project. So the parking on this project is accessed through the maple street. You can see it on the bottom left. That was a little confused. Sorry about that. Okay. Okay, access through maple for 11 underground spaces. You're going to use a system to accommodate all of those. Yes, this was again came as a result of the BPDA process with the number of cars. Okay, and is this an elevator building? Yes. So we have a lift just from the parking level to the first level. It's discontinued from there on up. Okay, so let me just put that down and then see what else did I have. Can you tell us how many IDP units? Sure, this is actually we're 20% affordability on this one. So we are providing for IDP for the units. What's the breakdown? It'll be a cross section between two bedrooms, one studio and one beds. And was there any talk to looking at three beds on this? Some of the two beds are bigger. What was a concern that we had? It wasn't something that we heard from the community. I mean, you're going to hear from the community obviously as you know, but there really wasn't much time. It's three better needs. Okay. How would the plans Mr. Robinson? Plains are good. No questions in terms of what those people propose. Any questions from the board? Can you just be a little more specific about the IDP? How many two bedrooms and what bedrooms in the affordability? Yes, so there would be probably two one beds and run two beds in one studio and I think those four abilities are 70% to 100% somewhere in that range. Okay. Mr. DiMico? Yes, Madam Chair, Lady. It's a member of the board about the Mico BTP. Because of the proximity of the Pankham area, I'd like to see the proponent and the Instrauling body and a visual alarm to one of pedestrians oncoming vehicles. Thank you. Thank you. And last question for the councillor. How, what does this look like in context of the abutting properties? I'm mixed. So there's some, a diagonally cross the street from this Madam Chair is the most precious flood church. If you are looking at this building or the proposed building to the last of it, there is a funeral apparent in operating funeral home. To the rear of it is the Blue Hills Bank parking lot, central paint, all that strip of storage that you see along the River Street, and to the right of it is residential. So we've wrote a residential on the right-hand side, so we can fly with this side yard set back then. Okay, thank you. Mr. Robinson, did I ask you how the plans are? Okay. Yes, you did. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either, and support or an opposition of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office has received several letters of opposition that have also been sent to the board for review. Some of the abutters of the project have stated that there's a concern for the number of units that are being proposed. In addition to the potential noise pollution, trash, and additional traffic in a congested area, there are some abutters that have concerns for the building, not conforming to the character of the neighborhood. They have stated that some schools, churches, residents, and all organizations in the surrounding area depend on favorable traffic flow to provide their services and feel that open maple street would become too congested. And again, parking would become an issue with the addition of this project. We've also received a letter of opposition from one of the leaders of the Group Park Neighborhood Association, who has stated she believes the project is too large and dense for the area and fails to provide against efficient parking. The property abuts them out in the Ponce of Design Overlay District, and they believe the project's design is inconsistent with historical nature of the neighborhood, as well as there not being enough green space and tree canopy. We received a letter of opposition from the High Park Neighborhood Association. The concerns expressed by the Group echo the concerns of other letters we've received in opposition and received, again, residents noting that developers they promised further site plans, addressing residents' concerns. But the groups that the plans were not provided. The Neighborhood Association believes that applicants have not shown the required elements to justify the exemption of the zoning code, specifically special conditions of the land and iron reasonable use, demonstrable hardship and finding harmony with the purpose and intent of the zoning code. And at this time, we would like to defer to the Board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have those letters, the mayor's office, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Edward. Jordan here from Councillor Royals Office. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Thank you. So, the Councilor White, Michael, where echoing the letters that the mayor's office received, receives the letters, some letter in opposition. And do that fact the Councilor, to own reckon up position. Okay. And I'll go to the attendees' start with Kim and then go to Ryan. Once I'm muted, can you state your name and address other reckon please? Yes, good afternoon. This is Kim, Eastervido. I am a butter at 58 Oak Street. And I'm also speaking for Joe Webb and Valerie Webb, who were on this morning, but had to sign off. She had to go back to work. She is an agreement with the things I'm saying. Her particular issue was concerning the setback that is adjacent to her property at 38 Oak Street. So, so, so, so, so, you may just interrupt your in opposition. Yes, that's correct. Okay, so please bullet point for me. So it's, it's, you know, bullet point for your opposition is. Okay. The close proximity to our house and the excavation required for the garage. In appropriate building size and scope for the neighborhood because we're in historical and protected neighborhood, oversized number of units on a lot sizes, 9,740 square feet, over just 11 parking spaces without any visitor parking spaces for 20 units. This is already a very congested street and a permanent street. Moitering just public safety. Thank you. Okay. Here we go. May I ask other speakers to add additional information rather than repeat what what the first speaker has has articulated. Yeah, go ahead. Brian. Yeah, I'll deal you. Are you looking to go testimony for you just needed yourself? Not a great any station name and address for the record please once I'm muted. Do you see a yeah, I'm not going to describe looking I'm down to 4%. Please everybody has so long and just give us but you name and address and tell us you want to order opposition. Okay. This is. Okay. This is. Okay. This is how this is where I am in the department. I'm a director of butter directly across the project from. And I live at 36 maple street high back. And I'm in opposition to the I'm in opposition to the project for several reasons. I will get into something. I don't think anybody else has gotten into on the plans. They show on the plans they show is a slight one of the plans. They show basically that the existing sidewalk on the corner of Okan maple is actually encroaching the property line. They're they're they're planning on shoving out the corner there a few feet. Thank you. Thank you. Can I hear from the next person and can we get Mimi Mimi unmuted please. Slash Mimi unmuted. Okay. It's 176 for. Thank you Madam Chair. Madam Chair and board. Craig Martin. Coaches Street High Park. I just wanted to let you go board now. The community process was one in that just being a neighborhood design overlay district it meant it meant that they see Boston light Boston landmarks mission of you. They refused to subject us to a Boston landmark mission review. That is in violation of on 169. Thank you. This is a neighborhood design overlay district. I thank you. I don't see that name. She's an I mean she's an I see. I saw a chat from her that she's for lending the high work. So see. Okay. Go ahead Eve. I use a question. You. Thank you. Good morning to the board and Chair Arrujil. I am the president of the High Park Neighborhood Association. The Neighborhood Association has been working with the residents at 34 Oak. We spent a significant amount of time discussing the project meeting with the developer proposing alternatives. We waited and waited and the residents waited for a response to the alternative proposal that was sent to the developer in a community meeting. Never received it. They have a vision for this project site which comports with the neighborhood. I think that the residents have stated that so smooth to the chase. Are you was the vote in opposition? Okay. Thank you. We are definitely in opposition. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So um Mr. Ambassador anybody else? Okay. If there's anybody else, Mr. Paul G need to give us a minute. Right. Oh. This is Brian. I want to have a chance to speak. Um, did you speak already? No, I didn't. You cut me off. Uh, no, no. What happened to ask? I'm done. Okay. I'm done with testimony. I need to hear a quick rub battle for Mr. Paul Gini and let's go ahead with the vote. Thank you Madam Chair. You know, I appreciate all the comments that came through. If you listen to what the concerns are mainly they're talking about height and density of this proposal. If you look at what the reflective violations were on this, we did not have a height violation. We do not have an FAA out violation. Our violation, the most part is related to first little residential which commercial was not desired in that neighborhood in parking which as came and you all know as a result of the article 80 process. So the argument that you know, this building is doesn't come forward with what the community is asked for. It works with the underlying zoning and the building itself is not in violation of either size or height or FAA or any of that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So give it all that information. Um, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to improve with BPA design review. Thank you. Second. Second. Let's see. Fortune. I. Alec. Perhaps. Long. Oppos. Rijero. Robinson. I. I'm sorry. I'm in support. I was muted. Sorry. Okay. So that's foreign support. I'm in opposition. Some motion does not carry. It's been denied. Madam Chair, the panel, can I get the board to vote again until it's uh, maybe maybe it's filed out prejudice or. Okay. Um, I mean, we, uh, it is denied because we did not want to see the project as it is again. Okay. Can we move to, um, cross street and then which was the other case that we said we'd make leave here. East Eagle. East Eagle. Okay. So we are running out of time. Um, so I just want to move to cross street. In cross street, whether it's in support or in opposition whoever makes the motion. I, um, need you to give me more information about why we're in support or in opposition when there is a motion made. Okay. Again, because there's a lot of, um, information and a lot of emails that we've gotten both in support and opposition. We like to limit, uh, into five of butters in support. Five of letters in opposition. Um, and so let's, let's move. Okay. On the next case, calling the LA 133749 40 to 42 cross street. This is new construction of 134 room hotel with round floor opening a public house with way, the Kettillo Park hotel lobby restaurant, tenant restaurant and seasonal rooftop dining terrace. And they also include major redesign of cross street, positive improvements to modern street violation. Article 25 section five, five thousand district article 32 section 32. That's more this is in the groundwater conservation overlay district article 54 section 12 restaurant views on the ground floor. It's been article 54 section 12 restaurant views on 10 thousand group law is within article 54 section 12 hotel uses conditional article 49 a section three. This is in the GWOV our applicability article 54 section 13 maximum floor area article 54 section 13. The maximum building height is a lot, it's been a lot. One story. Article 54 section 13. The minimum radio in sufficient article 54 section 15 establishment of the free to trail, unable to design all the way. Article 54 section 18, group structure, restrictions, amen air just for the record. This is what the promoters of panelists of the up to me have so shortly. Madam chair, I just must keep on G card Christian, some an alley, Boston, ground. Good morning, but I think I'm sorry. Madam chairman was bored Christian, some an alley, Boston groundwater, and we have both others from the applicant. Thank you. Madam chair, we have those as well. Thank you. Madam chair, my attorney, Johanna Schneider is the foodie promoted to panelists. This is really important. Okay, making that panelists as well. Can anyone else is on the attendee section and they need to be a panelist because they will be speaking on behalf of a project or you're out of an elected officials office. Please raise your hand so we can get you in the right place. Okay, last for you, Madam chair, members of the board, Johanna Schneider, attorney of MLA, and barn 75th eightth street on council for the developer. Whitney is, they'll call her the developer and might already from TATR project architect. We are proposing a new five story, 134 room boutique hotel with accessory restaurant uses on a lighted parcel, prominently located on the edge of the green light and the answer of the north deck. Along with the hotel, we are proposing to dramatically improve the public realm, investing more than a million dollars in improvement to cross great plaza and Wharton Street to make these safe and welcoming space. So council, can you go to the the crux of the matter because these are a lot of violations and I need to just have you as the expert on this talk us through this. Yes, Madam chair, there are two things that we're asking the board to do here today. One is that we do require a series of conditional use permits for the hotel use principally, but also for the supporting residential use of a variance is from the board. We also submitted to the board a detailed legal memorandum asking the board to take another look at the refusal letter issued by ISD as we believe that they incorrectly applied certain provisions, respectively 5418 of the coach of the project. Okay, is this just going to be 134 room hotel with which is condition use the forbidden uses are restaurant on the ground floor and right restaurant use on the penthouse and the roof deck, right? That is correct. I'm not a chair with respect to the uses we do also require relief because of the provisions of 5418. The board must approve any height in access of the historical height on the site existing as a two first 1985. We also require two probably have submitted the appropriate documentation for that. Okay, so tell us about the height. What is the report? What was the established height on June 1st, 85? I'm sorry, Madam Chair, and we are now proposing to go up to 55 feet. This is our which is the maximum height allowed under Article 55. This is where we do take issue with how the ISD has cited us because this is what we know what just give just give me the facts. Okay, so the height. What was the height in established under in June 1st, whatever what what was the height was at 55 feet? Now it was one story 70% of the site on June 1st, 1985 was a one story building and the balance of the site was actually a vacant parking lot. Okay, and we are now proposing to go up to 55 feet with some rooftop structures, which we believe are less than the 10% required by the code. And we are doing this to accommodate this. The key for tell 134 units again as you noted with our for restaurant and over time. Okay, so can you talk through let's see the parking maybe an issue so talk through the parking and what parking you're providing. And then we are not required by zoning to provide any parking in this location and in fact we are not providing any parking. Is the where where will hotel stop and restaurant stop or well, we believe that we can leverage the fact that this site is extremely walkable and well served by multiple modes of public transportation. We also believe and have entered into some discussions preliminarily with some other garage operators in the area to provide what valet services might be necessary and concert with the proper fact. Okay. Okay, I should also know that I'm sure that we have been in discussions with BTD about working with them to identify additional overnight residential parking locations currently because this site is vacant and lighted. There are folks who do use it as a parking lot and we recognize that some of those spaces will be displaced. So we are as I said working with BTD to find other places for those folks to park in the neighborhood. Okay, and tell us about the flood has a district will they be any occupancy within the flood has a district there will not. Okay. Okay, how are the plans Mr Robinson? The plans are good. I think that there's obviously a lot of discussion around this project. I think that this is a somewhat of a gateway project. I think the goals of projects and this kind of condition need to be respectful of all abouting the neighbors and sort of what their sort of impact might be. I do think there could be some more additional consideration on the rear of the building is a face of somebody about properties, but I think that the merits of the project seem to be there with potentially some additional work as it relates to the public. Parking some shadowing as well as the buildings around. And because the images of the project if that would be possible and and and you do any shadow analysis in this. There is shadow analysis. I reviewed those through the article any process those are online on friendly, but you review. There's you know there is around the park existing six story buildings actually. So there is minimal impact on the park in terms of some of the additional state from my review of those documents. Okay. Any questions from the board? I'm just curious we haven't seen very many hotels come before. As people have argued that in fact they've shifted from hotels to residents is what makes the applicant think that a hotel will work in this location. Well, we think that it's a special location for this because it does about the greenway and further down the greenway. There are other hotel uses that have been successful. We know that Boston has high demand for hotels right now. We also heard from many of the folks in the neighborhood who do support us and I just want to note that there are 385 letters and signatures of support before you about this project. There is a real airbnb problem in this neighborhood. So we hope that in addition to being able to provide hotel rooms for you to support Boston's growing hospitality industry that allowing a hotel in this location will alleviate some of the pressure within the neighborhood. We understand a lot of folks are bothered by airbnb within the neighborhood. Hold on, Ms. Snyder. I've just got to cut that right shot right there because this is a boutique hotel. It's a different price point from people who stay at Airbnb's. So, you know, I'm not sure that that is a viable argument. But in the meantime, any other information that might be a plus on this. Does the MIGO have any other questions? It's spoken on this Madam Chair. Go ahead, Bob. Put your name and address on the record. Yes, Madam Chair. Bob, the MIGO Boston Transportation Department. Madam Chair, members of the board. I have several concerns. I work with Joe Pacti for 11 years at this site. And I know it very, very well. And Pacti has always been a vital issue. And I would like to request that the proponent give me specific details on how they go on the word address. The parking demand. Secondly, the resident Pacti program surrounds the disability completely. And thirdly, the ones that park in the parking lot are the owns of the parcel. I know because that's where I used to park. And finally, I'm very concerned about the 70-foot distance from the drop-off point. To the front door. Because this is going to be tough on the elderly and persons with disabilities, as well as maybe a woman using the carriage to just take her child to the building. And so handy-capped issues and elderly issues and parking issues are my concern. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I respond? We did show very early in this process in a DICO through a full-article-eating process with the BPDA. We did show a variation of this with parking on the site. And what we were told by BPDA in no uncertain terms is that their vision of this site and across the street was to create a pedestrian space. And so when we ultimately sought to respond to comments received from the BPDA, we removed parking and instead decided to invest in landscaping and other improvements to the property. I got it because we tend to be very cognizant of the needs of handy-capped people and people with carriages and things like that. So that's something that needs to be kept in mind, maybe because we are in the older end of the cohort. So we can show the other plaza improvements. So no hold on hold on. I need to go any other questions from the board. Can I just start hearing testimony and support her in opposition? And I really need people to raise their hands if they are about us. Everybody else lower your hand. Five in support, five in opposition. Let's hear from elected officials. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're calling our new member of the Mayor's Office to be able to serve us. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks at deferred judgment to the board. The supporters are aware. It's went through a community process led by the BPDA. We heard from a lot of residents that were in support of this proposal, as well as a lot of residents who were in opposition to this proposal. Including the two active civics in the area, New Ra and New Nc. That were expressed strong opposition without we deferred to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have those ones that they have no one to spoke up. Senator Edwards. Yes, my name is Eric. I am an abstaining Senate Edwards today. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. She would like to go on the record as a co-limits project. Madam Chair, can everybody hear me? Yes, please go ahead, Councillor. Thank you. My name is Gabrielle Cawada. This is my first appearance for the board and my new capacity as Bob and City Councillor. Before I begin my remarks, I acknowledge that gravity is important here, so I will be quick. But I would love to provide them without any disruption to provide my opinion and full context of my opinion. The location of the cross street proposal is a gateway and I cannot emphasize enough of the importance of the site to the north end and they need to get it right from a urban planning perspective. In fact, I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I Arena Forべ striker team. I'm a member of the board. Honestly, and I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. Lived north to the north end. I'm a member of the board. I'm cultural disappeared. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. against the use of a hotel here. However, we know that though we've access to wealth, we'll always use improprietuity rather than broad swaths of north and residents in the public. I cannot in good conscience justify the potential scenario of a small group of homeowners to be the sole beneficiaries of the vistas that the site would provide. They've also committed and been cooperative in, to opening up multiple spaces in the proposal, including the roof deck to the public, and especially to north and residents and the rough organizations for our beds. They've also committed. I'm sorry, announcement. I'm still a little confused. Are you in support or in opposition? I was getting there, Madam Chair. Other notable benefits to the community include public realm and transportation improvements, morten streets and until a park connection from the greenway, a commitment to invest into a park and to maintain its perpetuity, local preference to community space, commercial space, excuse me, and support of local charitable organizations. So because of all this, I don't believe, and just what I'm getting to, I don't believe this project is terrible or would have a net negative impact on the community. This is my stance and I respectfully disagree with those who believe it would be. The advantage of providing civic amenities in a way that is equitable to all is enough for me to support this proposal. So I just want to clarify too, I am concerned about the city's process as it relates to a project of this importance. The proponent did embark on a nine month to a year community engagement process facilitating a reformer, but it's my understanding that the city does not require them to go back to the community after BPDA approval. And so I believe that this is a policy opportunity and we should change this. I think that resident should have gotten another shot at looking at these plans and providing their feedback. But I do understand that this is a way to do it. And thank you so much for your time, Madam Chair. Thank you, and good to see you. Can I ask everybody else to please give us bullet points, five people in support, five people in opposition. Thank you. Mr. Lions from Reps Office. I'm Madam Chair, thank you Patrick Lions from Representative Aaron Mike-Witz's office. He understands that the other has been all strong support and strong opposition on this project. He would like to stand in support of the project. Over the years, you've seen a number of proposals at this site. This is really the first one that fits with the neighborhood in regards to height and size. Furthermore, this project will really help to, you know, live in and activate an area of the neighborhood, which is dormant for generations. Furthermore, we're also providing a safer environment for the Tillo Park with the connection, which is a great improvement to Morton Street, as well as a connection to the Greenway. So you would like to be in record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm Madam Chair, and I'm Senator Paul Solan from City Council of Lions and Michael Clarity. In order to be a competent weather major cities and United States, keep up with demand, provide jobs and hospitality to COVID. The council of Dwan Records support, and if approved, give course, be prepared to address concerns of the neighborhood and grant each phase of construction. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I hear, I see two people with the same last name. If you're in the same household with one person, please lower their hands. Okay. Let's just move in. Please give us new information. Madam Chair. I'll start with Paul being a little caring. Paul, can you stay tuned in? I'll just put a record first. Good afternoon. My name is good afternoon. My name is Angela Rapolino, and I live at once, now in place in the North End, and I am here with the group of 3rd and 4th generation North Enders. We've lived here for over 70 years, and we are in full support of this project. Thank you. Thank you very much for your time. Mm-hmm. Karen? I think this is Karen Crompton. I live in 26th Stilman Street. I'm a direct butter to the proposed hotel. I am 100% in support of this project, but the hotel will be built, will be a huge improvement to I need you. Thank you. Okay, I'm all in. Good afternoon, everyone. I am a direct butter at 26th Stilman Street, and I am opposed to 42 cross street for the following bullet point reasons. Number one, there's many variances and violations to discuss, but my points will be that the public process really was not fully done. There was a huge high variance in regards to not counting the rooftop bar. The FAR is going from three to five over five, then there was a setback issue where it's going right to the edge on the back, up to the edge of the Morton Street, where there will be probably only eight feet separation between 26th Stilman and the development. There will be no privacy, there will be no noise control issues. And there will be increased traffic. There will be increased traffic in that area because there is no parking. I do not believe that the people coming are going to be here. Thank you. Thank you. I understand parking and density because you did talk about the FAR. Can I hear from the next person please do not repeat those two issues, give us new information. Hello, Steve? Yes, can you guys hear me? Yep, I'm thinking of a great further. Yep, sure, my name is Steven Shore, and I live at 26th Stilman Street, I'm a direct butter. And even though this hotel would probably end up raising the value of my condo, I'm fully against this project for the following reasons, mostly because I think the foundation is fragile. I know that my building is on starts in the ocean. Else know that there's a ton of rats underneath us that are dying to get out. And there's going to be too much noise. And all this is, is somebody trying to make as much money as they can for an understaffed hotel that is not needed in Boston. Thank you. You want me to join the boss? We want some rats. Thank you. Make a wish. Hi, yes, thank you. Hi. Nicholas Rivera, property owner of 7476, Stilman Street, 2-4, sorry, 2-4 Stilman Street, 74-76 Stilman Street, direct butter to a can tell of park. We like to stay our strong opposition for these variances in particular. These variances would have a negative impact on our neighborhood. The variances actually serve no purpose to the development of the area and exist solely to maximize the number of hotel rooms. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very glad I have. I'm in Stilman Street. Yes, I'm Gregory Heald. I'm also a 26-story street. And I'm speaking in a strong opposition to this project. Thank you. In addition to the rear setback, the roof deck, and the restaurants that will be a well of windows, of hotel windows that will be between eight to 12 feet away from us. It is unbearable in terms of the way that I would be able to live in my apartment. And I would be forced to leave my current residence. It would be... Thank you. Thank you. Mike Danna. I doubt that I needed to name an address for the right to please. I'm not a direct butter, but I have been aware. Mike, can you hear from Derek? Can I? Please. Jamie, let us. You don't have to better. So, to request a new year. Is there a problem? What's the new commutation name address for the right to please? Hi, this is Kristen Hoffman. I'm a resident of 26 Stilman Street. So, I'm a drunken butter. I'm also on the board of the North End Resonant to live in resident's association. I'm also the president of 25th of New York Park. I would like to speak in opposition to that. Among other things, the project will cast significant new shadows on Kintila Park, a project that both the Parks Department and the City of Boston have put incredible resources into renovations of in the last couple years. The project is the largest in the North End community and recent memory will take up the entire block. Thank you. I'm sorry, we're just so far behind scheduled. So, can I hear from another person? Can you call Jane Reynolds, please? Jane Reynolds. There's another Jane. We have you on here. Good afternoon. My name is Jane Reynolds. We are the property owners of 20 and 24 Stilman Street, which are directive butters. We are in support of this program and this hotel. We think it's a great thing for the North End and we think that it will be a great greenway entrance into the North End. Thank you. One more question and then we will here a rebuttal from the attorney. We call freeing the right. No, no, no. I don't want anybody taking over. I want to hear from the one more raised hand from Mary Beth's Vini and then we move on, okay? Marl, if Sweden is not available, Lorraine Foley. Molly. Can you hear me? Yes, please go ahead. Yes, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this part, so how about put your name in address on the record? Sorry, Mary Beth's Vini 26 Stilman Street. I would be one of the many apartments that drastically affected. I'm on the second floor. All of my windows would be blocked. I would be forced to leave the North End. But I would also like to point out that this project has not completed the proper public process. Please look at the letters from Mura and Nunick. That states that this somehow this developer has skipped the public process and has gotten a pass and has landed on the agenda today. And the clerk has not had a chance to speak and for this to be properly vetted. So I ask the council to please deny this request. Thank you. So the attorney, please a quick rub battle and then we'll go to a decision. Okay, thank you Madam Chair. Just to address the questions about community process, this has been ongoing for more than two years. And in that time, the developer has had more than 30 meetings with neighbors and that includes two presentations to Mura, two presentations to Nunick, three IAG meetings and three public meetings that were held at part of the VVAs article 80 process. We enjoy broad support, 385 letters and signatures from a butters and others in the North End, suggest although there is them opposition, it is primarily limited to residents of one stack of units in 26 stone men who do a lot of the building. Sorry. Go ahead. Can you wrap up please? Yes, of course. But I just want to say is that those residents of 26 stone men already have their youth box by an existing forest or a building at 57 endoconstrate and this building has been designed to be pulled further back in order to provide some relief in a better condition for this. This is a project that will dramatically revitalize white and white. It will improve your dream. Okay. Okay. Sorry, I'm really getting tired because we have been inundated with letters both in support and opposition and so people have not been respectful of my request to be focused in their comments. So given all that information, may I have a motion or any? I'd like to make a motion. I think that the use is inappropriate. I think the idea is reasonable. So hold on. I need to know what the hotel uses on the ground floor no reason. Go ahead. Go ahead. The building use of a restaurant on the ground floor. I mean, I think that's acceptable to have a restaurant on the ground floor. The rooftop restaurant. Also, I find that to be acceptable and very common in the surrounding areas, particularly as you go across the street towards North Station. So what's the motion place? The motion is still further, what BPD A to that. So I can. Fortune. O'Leake. Hi. Dong. Hi. Rojiro. Robinson. Hi. Anato. Hi. Raujio is an opposition, but motion carries with the provisor approval with design review. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Madam Chair, unfortunately, I have to refuse myself on the rest of the meetings. Okay, so let me call East Eagle Street. Let's see. Accounts, sir. Yes, Madam Chair. I think. No, so it's, I think we needed to follow on this. I, we ran out of time. I didn't, so I'm sorry about that. I understand that. Just if I can ask when we do chronology to ensure that we do it, I at least needed a six member board for the next hearing. And did you, Mr. Rojiro, did you anticipate that you would need to refuse yourself? Yes, myself. And I don't want to speak out in terms of Mr. Weegress also needs to refuse himself. I believe on this matter. So. Okay, so let's, Mr., let's see, Mr. Fortune, do you do us one last favor and just read these needle into their record or. I can do that, Madam Chair. Hold on a few seconds. Or we can try to do it in less than five minutes. I know. I'm not sure changing you, Mr. Lins. I call in case VLA 12556. I'm sorry, 1256992 220 record East Eagle Street. Name and address of the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins, 2.45 Summers Street on behalf of the position. Okay, your request is for the for all then, right? That is correct. And mind if the five member board. May I have a motion please? Oh, thank you for. Again, Fortune. Hi. Oh, my good. Don. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Okay. Not a. Hi. I'll tell this crap that went into it and it made no difference. So the deferreds and the eight please. I'm being told by council. We can do October 25th at 11th. October 25th at 1130, okay? Thank you. Okay, so let's go and so Mr. Riger open you. Move with the next issue. Let me just get my agenda on the. Sorry. Yeah, totally. And I'm sorry. I was on so much. It has plenty of that. It just died. Here's me. I'm not going to be that silly and things from people. So we'll just take that momentum and put it into. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Chair. All right. Calling the next case BLA 1339772 33 David Street. In voting. Violations to article 69 section eight. Use of Favid and F MFR and two family district. Article 69 section 29 off three parking and loading requirement. Article 69 section nine, Laudier area ratio is insufficient. Article 69 section nine, unusable open space insufficient. Article 69 section 9.3. Location of main entrance. Article nine section two change in an on-conforming use. The purpose is to change the occupancy from a three family to a four family. Scope does not include any exterior alterations. Changes all occur within the building. Emblem name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lenz, two 45-sunder Street and Sposs. I mean, half of the petitioner. I would respect that 33 days since Street had part. Madam Chair, just a quick background about how this came before the board. Our client have purchased this property via foreclosure. I purchased it as is with all existing conditions. During a recent finance transaction and how our office got involved, I was determined that the legal act into this building was not correct. It does show legal act that seems three. However, there are four existing units in this building. We are proposing and asking the board to recognize the four units of any change to the existing footprint of the building itself or anything with respect to the interior of the building. The units are- Oh, yes. Any one, any basement unit? You're right, okay. Okay, and then talk through the size of the units and the bedroom. Sure. So it's the existing conditions on it. These are all two bedroom units. These sizes range from about 580 square feet up to about 800 and 80 square feet for each of the units. And again, I understand that for new construction, certainly the units would be larger, but again, the existing condition when this property was purchased at foreclosure. With respect to the violations, this is already recognized as a preexisting dog in forming use as a three-day app. Okay, council, hold on for a minute. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Yeah, I guess I want to make sure there's no building conditions in terms of the sprinkler and then moving to a four or any life safety issues, but other than that, no questions in terms of what's pretty, I guess, proposed. Memorialized, thanks. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition with this proposal? They have to know Madam Chair, members of the board, Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The applicants, you do the community process, they notify all the butters, and I hosted a community meeting that was held on May 25th of 2022. There were no comments or feedback for the proposal from above, because I would attend the meeting. Additionally, the applicants attended the Hyapark Central River neighborhood group, meaning in June and received no opposition from the group. Our office has not received any letters of support or opposition, and at this time, we would like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joining free us here from Council of Recart of Memorial's office, let's go on to part of that. We'd like to call the record to support this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no resistance. In may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with no building code relief. Sorry, I have a motion. Watching, Alex, sorry. All right. Uh-huh. Hi. Good to hear you. God. Robinson. Hi. Not a. Hi. I arrived at all. So I motion carries. Thank you very much. What's that? 5, 8, 8. The others companion cases the next two? I think so. I don't think so. Um, just. Two separate times. Oh, yes. They are two separate signs. Technically, they're represented by the same people. Well, technically, two different. Yeah. All right. Calling case, BOA 134134849 65 lands down street. Violations, article six, section four, other protectional condition. Preparative continues of an existing electronic sign seeking a zoning refusal at a re-aided by the. It's expiring in the seeking. Brotherhood. I. Okay. Uh-huh. All right. Name and address of the record, please. Can everybody please me? Can everybody please me? Thank you. Anyone who's. I see a hand raised Connor. Yep. Adwyer? Yep. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Can you hear me? Just go ahead. Great. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good afternoon. Turning Connor over to wire from bulls and stores with a business 400 Atlantic Avenue, Austin. Representing Orangeboro Media LLC with respect to 40 different down streets and way. Also here with me today, represent Orangeboro, Gibraltar Brown, I'm heading for a favor. But before the board, seeking renewal is done in relief for an existing electronic sign at the property under section 11-7 of the code. The existing sign is located on the last three entertainment districts. It's like allow with a conditional use permit from the board. And the sign previously received a conditional use permit under section 11-7. We're not proposing any changes or alterations to the sign. We're simply asking for the renewal of the zoning relief for another eight-year term. And we're having a answer any questions. And you can see a picture of the sign figure showing a COVID-19 PSA from the city. And so it's both signs are just the COVID-19 sign. So that sign behind is not ours. It's just that sign in front. And here's another picture. The sign show from Boston Art Academy. And it's been dim that night and et cetera, et cetera. That's correct. And I'm sure we have an existing license agreement with the BPA that governs the hours of operation and the brightness of the sign. OK. Let's see. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Great. OK. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support an opposition of this proposal? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling anyone with the Mayor's Office and the board services. It's time to Mayor's Office to defer judgment to the board. The applicant reached out to a number of local civic associations in the area, including the Fenway Civic Association, Fenway CDC, Fenway Alliance, our resource collaborative for kids in the Boston Arts Academy. We've also regulated flyers, notifying resident of the proposal. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time without we defer to the board. Thank you. I'm trying to get a few links to hands-fair. Iris, any session or another session? Would you like to please? Here you hear me. Go ahead, Iris. Hi. How are you? I'm Iris from Fenway CDC, 704 Ben Street, where in support of this R&D program, the Mayor, because it is a great... You can hear me now for the community. They always have to publicize all the nonprofit events. We can get the message out. They help to promote diversity and confusion. We see different messages that help promote different life-like diversity. Iris, are you just running so late? So I just want to come out of the people? That's all. What's up? Jeff Hanton? Thank you. Madam Chair, members, or Jeff Hanton, BPDA, we recommend approval. The only provider that we would ask is that they continue to comply with all the regulations at 11-7 and to comply with all previous conditions of their original approval. That's all. Thank you. And the thing is, I don't have the conditions of the original approval in front of me. OK, so given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to approve with two providers that they comply with the previous set of conditions that govern the use of the board and for an eight-year term. Is that... Yes. I believe that. And what's... And the BPDA provides a comply with regulations of 11-7. Yeah. And they... And they... For an eight-year term. OK, and for the record, we probably need that provide a with referencing 11-7. That's fine. We can go break in. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. I can. A look. Yes. Dong. Hi. Washiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Panada. Hi. A round your all-to-eyes to motion carries with those providers. OK, calling next case. B-O-A-1341355-154-156. It's a street violation of the Article 6 section 4 of the protectional conditions and the purposes of continuing use of an electronic sign. Good afternoon again, Madam Chair. Members of the board, just for the record. My name is Attorney Conor O'Dwyer. I'm Wilson Stores, Business Address, Supporter, Atlantic Avenue, and Boston. Again, representing Orange, Brown, Media. And now with respect to the property at 154, it was in street. Again, we are here seeking the renewal of the existing zone relief for the sign for another eight-year term. And if you have any questions on the sign, I'm happy to answer. But as you can see, very similar. It's just down the end of the corner of the switch and the land's downstream. OK, and oh yeah, I remember when this one came through. OK, and again, I know there were some issues with the brightness of this one. That attention has been paid to that, right? That's correct, Madam Chair. We are keeping it at 500 Kendell's, but we are squared as required by the by-law. OK, because I've all the residential's used. How are the plans again, Mr. Robinson? This is good as the ones before. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Please put your name and address on the record. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored to meet with the Mayor's Office, the services. This time, the Mayor's Office has to refer judgment from the board. As we heard from the previous proposal, the same applicant did a lot of outreach with the local member of the association, such as the Thinway Pacific Association, Thinway CPC, Thinway Alliance, Art Resource Cloud for Kids, the Boston Arts Academy. They also circulated and noticed proposal to the board. There's within 300 feet, or off, if not, here any concerns related to the proposal. The faculty deferred to the board. Thank you. Go ahead, Miss Sam, to the board. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hinton. Just repeat my comments from the last case, exactly the same, that they comply with everything. Thank you. Mayor, may I have a motion, please? The same motion as before. The motion for approval, which you provide us for continues. Previous condition, eight years, and 11-7. Yeah. Is there a second? Second. I'll look. Yes. Dom. Hi. Richero. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Benado. Hi. Rao Joe also. I motion carries with those provisos. Thank you very much. Calling next case, B-O-A-1349-982. 13-18, Riversdreet, and Ward 18. Violations, the article 69 Section 8 uses the bill. Mr. Gerrard, I couldn't interrupt you. I'm doing the Mr. Fortune leaving. I'm going to take an administrative deferred. I just wanted to understand you all that. Thank you for that. Motion at deferred. Dr. Hey, O'Lake. Hi. Hi. Long. Hi. Richero. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Benado. Hi. Around you also. I motion carries. The date, please. I'm going to take a look at the date. This is a song we can do. I'll give it a minute. Sorry, October 1. We'll give it a minute. Let's go to that 1130. October 25, 1130. Okay, see you then. Thank you, guys. Calling next case, B-O-A-135-1180. 100-102, Beachview, and Ward 1. Violations, the article 53 Section 9, insufficient log width. Article 53 Section 9, insufficient log frontage. Article 53 Section 9, number of stories is excessive. Article 53 Section 9, insufficient frontage setback. Article 53 Section 9, insufficient side-yard setback. Article 53 Section 9, which is really out of setback. Article 53 Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53 Section 53-57. Applicability of dimensional requirements. Special provisions for a corner watt. Find that setback on a corner watt. Article 53 Section 8 uses forbidden 27-feet glass drive. East Boston iPod, Applicability. And the purposes to erect a three-story two-family dwelling on a vacant watt. And just a reminder, this is a six-member board. You need five members in support. So you can request an administrative deferral. No, not a check. We're going to choose to move forward. Okay, let's go ahead then. Good afternoon. I'm chair of numbers of the board. The attorney guard is small. Business address of one's option road. Today we're here seeking relief to erect a two-family dwelling on a vacant watt. There's only some district here is a 1.5,000. And our lot size is approximately 1,5,000 square feet. Sorry, I did not hear that. How many square feet? 1,978 square feet. The lot size. The lot size. Go ahead. Okay, and the violation does follow. A lot width. A lot width requirement is 50 feet. You have 40 feet. We are a corner watt. So the total watt is 130 feet. Building height. Requirement is 35 feet 2.5. Stories. We're proposing three stories. And we're below the height. We got to feet as we are at 30 feet 7 inches. What we are set back. Requirement is 15 feet. We are proposing a model for the outside. The outside yard violation. We're going to go ahead and do this 12 feet on the left side. We have the five. On the right side we have 6.7. We're proposing 6.7. We're going to set back the requirements. 40 feet. We are proposing 29.5. And chair with regard to the FAR. The quiet FAR is 0.5. We are proposing 0. The units of our chair and two units are two bedrooms. We're going to have that approximately 1,600 square feet. We have a parking where there's parking within the site for two spots per unit. And so parking will be at the rear. Where will parking be? The parking will be at the rear. Access by an existing curb cut on drummers. And then I noticed there's a right of way. What is that at the rear of the good thing? Yes, the rear of the building. Stroll up a little bit. The rear. He's meant also. Commitates the property at 96, which is right next door. Okay. Okay. So, um, I'll take some about it. How are the plans for this one? The plans are fine. I think maybe some little bit of design review help will help this out a little bit. It is a corner. So I want to make sure it's addressing both streets. It was like it sort of turned to one side. But in terms of the proposal, I don't see an issue. I mean, the left hand, not sure which, uh, set back against the adjacent building is, is somewhat tight, um, based on the sort of urban condition of this neighborhood. So that might be something under consideration as well. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Have the superposal? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman. I'm Zalem. I'm the head of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Um, our office hosted two of our evenings for this project, one on equal 20th and the second one on May 10th. The applicant provided upon the bus visible plans of the project to about us to help with communication understanding. About our butter's voice concerns and the highest of the project. And when it bearings this, lots of sunlight. And also character of the street. Although we had two of our meetings for this project, members of the community believe that there should not be anything else that a single family comment this property. The applicant also met three times with the one high single council and the members should go to to oppose the proposal. And at this time, our office will go to the judgment of the board. Thank you. I think we raised hands here. Is that what Sean call us the conversation? Yes, Sean, police, the eight mom, Nancy Avenue, East Boston right around the corner from the building. I'd like to just go on a record and say that I opposed the project. I'm asking that we only keep the single families inside the neighborhood. This is a single family zone in general. Like to just make sure that we keep single families in the neighborhood in general. And like just asking you guys please deny this project. Thank you. Yes, I didn't want to pretty much second his sentiments from the former speaker. This is a two family forbidden on the lot. So I think this should be denied with maybe without prejudice, but they should come back and propose. I think it's going to be squeezed into that lot. And their variances are really a bit smaller. And if this is your address on the record. Sorry, yes, Gail Miller to 32 orient. I am a very active member of the Ori Nights neighborhood council, which has opposed this outright. Thank you. Seven, eight, one, eight, eight. Can you say she didn't manage to. I'm able to get to my. Hi, sorry, no. Yes, but we can hear you can you say she name an address for the record please. My name is Lorraine Orlando. And I'm a direct. I'm a direct. So next to this project. And I live right behind the building of 96. And I own the building on the corner behind the new proposal. Okay, and then. Good man. Can you just give us your address for the record. My address is I live at 12 month. I'm not a direct. I'm not a direct. But I own you home directly behind the property. Okay, next caller, please. No additional ways. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. Hi. Hi. Appreciate. No. Robinson. I'm going to say no as well. Canada. Hi. Rao Joe, also in support. But motion does not carry. It's been denied. Okay, next case. Thank you very much, and I'm sure that was the poor health protect. Thank you. Mr. Regiro, next case. Sorry, I forgot I was. You don't get to the back now. Yeah, calling NCS BLA 135-092, once to 77 Chelsea Street in Ward 1, violation of the Article 53 Section 9, usable open space, open space into, in sufficient. Article 53 Section 9, additional law to area, in sufficient, Article 53 Section 56, Austrian parking and loading of mines, Austrian parking is insufficient. The purpose is to change the volume. Through me, who are you three unit, resident of the law? Name and address of the racket, please. Faculty of Madden, chair, members of the board, Richard Lenz, 245 Sounder Street, on behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing, non-conforming use located 3,000 District on the main street, make our figurines foster. Essentially, what we have here is a legal advocacy of a commercial space at the lower level with two residential units. The goal is to legalize an occupancy to three residential units, which they conforming use in the district. With the reconfiguration, there are some technical zoning violations that arise to result. The first is the usable open space requirement, even though we have an existing condition, the usual open space requirement changes, because we are adding a residential unit where supposed to provide additional credits for our fee. However, because we're not really changing anything with respect to the existing footwear building, that's more of a form of our substance violation. Second issue involves the parking. This is a pre-existing condition with ground level commercial that is being changed to residential. Article 53 says that when you propose an additional dwelling unit in a pre-existing building without parking, you're only required to provide parking for the additional unit. So therefore, again, a technical variance for purposes of conforming with the proposed use of a three family. No, can also just a very quick question. So can you tell us what page we should be looking at? To see what this looks like from the exterior. Sure. We can go to the next. Did this point of those commercial spaces where there's a bump out? Correct. You can see here, Madam Chair, the middle shows sort of two upper levels are set back from lower level. This is, for all tens of purposes, being utilized by the utilized for some time as residential space, just to leave like it's dependencies never been caught up. So this is an opportunity, at this time, to re-app the building. There will be a re-out of these areas, that will create a life safety. But obviously, we want to catch the correct occupancy for the building as well. Product, okay. How are the plans in Sir Robinson? Plans, there are good, no question on the proposal. Yep, it's pretty straightforward. Questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition if this proposal? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Ms. Oliplor, I'm an Inc. Assistant for the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. For this project, we hosted two of our meetings. There was a lot of opposition from the direct of others when the first meeting. Originally, the above is not approved the addition that was being proposed, but the developer decided to work with the above and remove the addition and now the above is our in support. The applicant also met with my Vic Centrum Neighbor Association, the association voted to oppose the project due to the above's concerns. But I took putting the record that this took place before that second of the first meeting. And at this moment, our office will lead to the furlough judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, I have no other chance. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second. Second. Oliplor. Hi. Dawn. Hi. Mojiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Anato. Hi. Rao Jalton supports a motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. If I can start with the record, no BPD desire to do with that correct? Correct. Thank you. Have a good day. Calling next case, BLA 135 85 97 32 43 Washington Street in World 11. The violations are article 55 section 55 dash 40 off three parking and sufficient. Article 55 section 55 dash nine additional law area area area area in sufficient. Article 55 section nine FAR excessive. Article 55 section nine side yard in sufficient. Article 55 section nine area yard in sufficient. As a change of two family to a three family renovating tire structure, ad rear decks, stem living area into the basement for unit one and add a sprinkler's name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCas, LeCasks Law 75 of Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the owner and project opponent. This is an existing two family structure on Washington Street and Jamaica Plain. And the proposal is to fully renovate the building and change it to three family dwellings by utilizing some of their basement space in the reapportion of the property, which is a full walkout condition in the rear yard as a portion of unit one. And then to utilize what is an existing large attic space for a portion of unit three on the upper floors. Please cancel to us what page we should be looking at. And what's happening? Sure, the D floor plans. This is the site plan advanced to right here stop. Oh, sorry, right here are the floor plans. So what is happening is that on the right hand side of the page is the basement living area. It's a kitchen and living room for unit one. The balance of unit one is half of the first level. And you see in the back there's a deck and I'll show you on the elevation. It's a full walkout condition, this steep slope of land. Sorry, if you can stay on the floor plans for a minute. Yeah, stop. Yep. The front portion of the basement is a common utility room, which is accessible by all three units. On the street level, which is the first floor, the balance of unit one and a portion of unit two. And then onto the next level, again, it's split. It's sort of Philadelphia style split where half a unit occupies half of each floor. Balance of unit two is on the next level. And then unit three is the balance of the second floor and what is the existing attic space. You scroll to the next slide. It's a good. You tell us what the floor is ceiling height in that attic space is. Is it entirely bogged out or does it have any pitch to it on that roof? Yep. So what you see now on the screen is the cut through elevation. And it shows that the ceiling height and attic, it's very large attic space, is 12 foot seven. And that portion of the room, which is occupied as well as showing the floor plan, is the room with a 13 feet nine, almost 14 feet across. So lots of space in that very high attic space that's not being enlarged, we're using the existing. And then you see here on the cross section, the common basement in the front, unit one living area in the back, portion of unit one on the back, portion of unit two in the front, balance of unit two on the next level, and then unit three, the top level and half of the third level as well. All of the units have a real outdoor direction. I don't know who comes, no. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plains look good. It is full walk out the rear, and there's only the common sort of living area down there. Anyways, living room dining rooms from the bedrooms are up up, so, and that attic is like sufficient. So no questions for me. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling our new member of the Mayor's Office, the name of the services, the sound of Mayor's Office, like to defer each other from the board. It's better information in the community process. It's under one extensive community process, beginning with the button, meaning, facilitated by our office. It also, the applicant can receive support from the Edgleston Square Neighborhood Association by way of an MOU on May 3rd, 2022. Additionally, this proposal receives support from the JPNC Zoning Subcommittee on July 6th, 2022. This time, the Mayor's Office, I'll give the floor a judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm sorry to have a large makeup party, constant build, working support. Madam Chair, I have no understand. Jeff from the BPDA? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton BPDA. We recommend an approval with the proposal that the building code relief be granted. And if there are any exterior changes for design review. Thank you. Hey, Mayor, have a motion, please. Motion to approve no building code relief. And the design review? Well, I have no exterior changes, certainly sub-sound. Right, right. Okay. So, look. Guys, donation to the mayor. Thanks for introducing one of the most方面 and biggest and most important financial affairs. Bring to you more updates, reminds me of public health policies that will receive refreshing and prize money. We have a six number board and very shortly in less than half an hour or a little over half an hour. We will have a five number board. So if anybody is requesting a deferral, please put the address on the record first. 49 are in reroad and sister case 39 in reroad. Okay. Sorry, go ahead. I'll call in two cases and BLA 129 6380 and BLA in companion case BLA 129 6381. Out of chair members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam Zimmer, Nancy with the business address of 168 H Street first floor. So Boston we're here to seek an administrative deferral. I'll take them to the deferral. I'll second here. Okay, Alec. Hi. Dong. Hi. Rojiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Sonato. Hi. Arrange all also in support so that it's been deferred the day, please. Manager, we do October 25th at 11.30 a.m. October 25th at 11.30 a.m. So you then. I also have have a second one 80 through 82 Boston Street. Hey, Mr. Rojiro. I'm trying to find that one 80 to 80. I'll go out of reconsideration to colon case BLA 117 79912 82 84 Boston Street. Now, chair members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam Zimmer, Nancy with the business address of 168 H Street. So Boston first floor we're here to request an administrative deferral. Please. Question of the show. So this is Alec. Hi. Dong. Hi. Rojiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Sonato. Hi. Arrange all also in support the day, please. OK. How do you mean also do October 25th at 11.30 a.m.? Uh, on new time. New time. Thank you. Yeah. OK, so 11. So sorry, 1025 at noon. See you then. Thank you. OK. Column next case BLA 1160061 69 Saratoga Street, needs Boston. Article 53 section 8 uses for the then three family dwelling. Article 53 section 50 6 R Street Parking is insufficient. Article 53 section 9. If they are as excessive. Article 53 section 9. Saratoga is an addition. Article 53 section 9. Radio insufficient. Article 32 section 4 G card. Affleability. Change of occupancy from a single family to a three family. We rise extension of living space into the basement with two additional units. Build new emergency escape. Construct new exterior. Stay away. Take Titch and O from the base. Name and address for the record. Please. Any on the section 6 169 Saratoga Street. No, a bosette using the We can move to the next one. Yes, please. Okay, call the next case. Call BLA1267825 in companion case. BLA1267823295. Violations are article 53 section 9, usable open space and sufficient. Audible 53 section 9, FAR is excessive. Audible 53 section 9, additional rock area and sufficient. Audible 53 section 56, Osprey Park and the Learning Requirements and sufficient. And that was for two notes. That's a change of occupancy from a single to a three family and expend living space into a basement for an additional unit. Then the other violations are Audible 53 section 9, rail art and sufficient, Audible 53 section 9. Sire art and sufficient, Audible 53 section 9 building head excessive and feet. Audible 53 section 52 roof structure restrictions, out of 27 T-5, East Boston High Pod Affleability and that's for the roof deck. My name is Adam Chair and members of the board, Aaron Daniel, 40 Ever Street East Boston Mass and on behalf of Mary Lou Fernando, the honors. Tell us why you would defer the last time. It was a last minute deferral based on new information that there was a butter in the rear that was in opposition. So we took the time to try to reach out. We were not successful. You were not successful. So talk to us about this change of occupancy with the understanding that the board does not look kindly to learning space and the basement. Sure. It's a familial home of multi-generation. And this space is to be inhabited by their son. It does have a grave change such that not just the four windows, but additionally with the rear needs to be dressed as that full height and the rear of the rocket. It actually stands as a two family as a certificate of occupancy. The zoning code refusal mistakenly cites it as a one family. Okay. And how is the third dwelling unit created? The third dwelling unit would be a garden level unit. Yeah, if you could scroll, there's a single plan for the garden level unit. And it is a studio approximately six hundred and eighty square feet. Full means of the address from the back with a full height door. And then the access is through the front doors as it is standing now. So there's no envelope change. And what's the floor to ceiling height down there? Seven foot six except for one spot where there's ductwork that comes across this hill. And utilities are separate, separate access to utilities? There's not separate access. There will be separate utilities. For a unit like an independent unit to be approved, utilities need to be accessed separately, not through the unit. Reason of all requests were certainly open to making that floor plan work accordingly. It can be done. Okay. And tell us about those decks. The deck addition, the roof deck? Of course, the roof deck largely sits on the rear of the roof structure. From the very crown of Sumner Street as we start to come down, you can just see the HVAC unit that services that top floor unit where the owners live, Marylo, and other themselves. And the deck would be behind that. So it's very much out of sight lines of neighbors and of butters. It does have a head house. We do a flat roof. So we're in a space where the head house is the only way we can really access it. And it will tie into the existing second means of egress. And there's no possibility of accessing that deck through extension of the rear stairs. So the rear stairs are only to that top floor roof line now in order to get access to the roof deck, the proposed roof deck, we need to build that head house to do so. I see. Okay. It's just a hatch right now. So the hatch would be turned into full stair, full height access. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? I mean, the plans are generally fine. You know, there's not much information on the lower level unit from the standpoint of the grade and natural rate. I do see a full door out, but I don't exactly understand where the grade is and associated with it. It's sort of like down and you go back up again or something, but I just don't have any real information on that assessment. I did have a question on the rear. This is a fairly new building or no. It is built in from a little Fernando. Okay. So they had two familial homes there and Mary lose side. Was there a proposal for the roof deck not to have a head house in it when you originally? Because it does, I see the issue because the rear of stairs are enclosed. Right. So it's harder to create a roof hatch, but I mean, I just didn't know if it's a little tricky. That was part of our B.A.R. B.A.R. design review at the time to enclose the rip step. So you did not do this as a fright. It came to this board. Yes, we've been to the board for the original demo of the old structures to build this new structure for them. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I'm just confused about a number of things. The sections seem to show a uniform grade. That was a dotted line. There is an elevation that shows a sloping grade. I can speak to that. Yeah, that's accurate. I can speak to that. So the driveways, what precluded us to, if you scroll to the site plan, you'll see there's a retaining wall. Just to the left of the one car park in spot, and that retaining wall holds the grade out. So in the pictures, it doesn't present that way, but it is. In fact, what happens? The doors full height and out to the ground level of their property. And it does not step back up. It just egresses out the alleyway. So on the far left of their property, that access that walks down beside their retaining wall, and then, on the right side to the left of their driveway, grade drops significantly such that in the back. It's a full height door. So the driveway slopes down? The driveway splat. And that we built that up with the retaining wall. That's why you don't see. When you look at the side of the property, that's why they're going to see the grade change, because the driveway is built up to accommodate that one car. So I understand, but explain, or maybe Mr. Robinson can do it, the head house. Why there's a need for a head house off the enclosed stairs? I don't get that. And there's not a drawing that was made that clear. May I speak to that? No, I'm sure. So if we spread it to the head house depiction, if you could do that, please. The rear set of the- Yeah, let's switch set of plans. Is that- That's it. That's it right there. Yep. So on the lower two sections, you can see the bird's eye view of the second means of be grass for all the ones all the way down and out. Those stairs under this proposal for roof deck would continue up into this top right corner depiction, which is the head house that is the diminimus needed to access the roof deck area. So- As a right now, those stairs leads to a hatch. It's a closed staircase where the door is not in the roof deck. That's correct. Okay, so that's not really what I think we would consider a head house, but okay, that's fine. And it's in the rear anyway, so you'd stop if it's built from the street. It is not as- Is it the very rear of the property line? Okay. Okay. Not to see it. Okay. Not to- not to new, let's see if it's harder, but- On the basement level, I mean, obviously the grade is a little bit quirky. Is there the ability to get real windows down there? Because in the elevations, it only shows tiny little windows. High. Yeah. It seems to show. So, generally, or small, we would be working larger windows in at least on the left and right of the property where we could do window wells. Certainly, the one at the very left rear elevation of the property can be a bigger window if we were to obtain a approval. And one final question. Given that this is a relatively new building, how could we be in mass for all of these items during the original approval? Maryloon Fernando didn't originally have this vision. So, we built out their full vision at that time. And it's been a dream of Fernando's to get a roof deck, but it just wasn't in the cards at the time. The additional dwelling unit became a familial desire. Their son would live there. Okay. I'll add one more just because it was interesting to me. When I looked at this in Google Earth, it appears your headhouse is going to block your view of the water. I hope you looked at that. So, I don't want you to go through the whole thing and then you have a headhouse block. I think you could probably figure out another access point, but I'll leave it to you to make sure that the clients are happy with that. I'm curious if Blanc's an airport view off to the right there. Yes, he was standing there. Okay. So, you have to make a glass outhouse. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. And I have an interest with the Mayor's Office of Medical and Services. The applicant and I will host it in the water's meeting on April 14th. I have no butters in attendance for the meeting. The applicant also met with the Jeffers Point A with Association late last year. The Association voted in support and no concerns, no concerns, the race. I did receive one letter of opposition regarding this project. And at this time, we relate to the floor judgments. The board. Thank you. Okay, I'm sure you have one here. Would you like to give us a moment here? Yes, I am. Yes, I am. Do you hear me? Yeah. Do you hear me? Yes. Hello? Hello? Yes, I can hear you. Okay, so I am the Nevada. They built the property six inches from my law line. I had cancer when they built it, so I never received any payment necklace for the record. I have a record. Yeah, 45 Jeffrey Street. This got deferred. Nobody has ever reached out to me. Nor did I get any information despite the fact that they have my proper address and hand over for the record. So I gladly wouldn't go out to the neighborhood. No one has reached out to me. They built this property six inches from the law line. I had a lawyer who said they needed to build a wall back in 2007. They built the wall, then they took the wall down. They built the apartment illegally in the basement. They are someone living there now. And if I put up a wall, they wouldn't be able to open the door. This is so, so close to the law line. It is literally ridiculous. And now I get water my basement, which I am not even dealing with that. But this shouldn't even be a two family, let alone one family. And as a one family, how it was allowed to be built literally six inches from the law line. I have no idea. I did a lot of work. I came down to 1010 Mass Ave. I submitted the agreement from the lawyer, which they have devolved it on. I submitted the plans, which now, in pictures, showing the illegal apartment that they built and are using anyway. And I've done everything possible to try to correct this. Now that I feel better, and I'm very, very upset. I took off a work the first time. Now I'm taking off the work the second time. I was left that I can take off the work. And I just don't have to stand. I just can't. I mean, I just don't know this can be a two family, let alone a three family. And why they didn't have any finalizations with someone living in a legal, in an apartment that doesn't belong there. Where if he opens his door, he needs to enter my property to leave down my alleyway. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You are the property owners. So please tell us about the property that Jordan drinks. Yes. Hi. My name is Mary Lumic-Dana. I own the property. My husband is next to me for Nandro Fernandez. I've been on this property for 83 years. It was two three family houses that my load is on. We have neighbors. My brothers and sisters were all gone in this property. We have this, the house that is here now, where there was a three family house here. Where the parking lot is, was a two family house. So I had two houses. We have a 293 and a 295 address. This house wasn't three family before we bought it. It was a family. Okay. Okay. Hold on. I'm sorry. Jeff, what was the BPD's recommendation on it? Do you remember? Yes. We recommended approval with design review, but I don't think we really need design review on the head house. That's at the back of the property. Okay. Excuse me. Miss Adaro. I would like to please finish. If I may. Yes. We have to put short. Yes. My son lives in the basement. I'm not waiting under this. I'm sorry, Mary Lou. I'm sorry. I didn't get your last name, but I mean, I'm going to hold off. Please, because you have been represented for the bulk of this presentation by Aaron. So we yet we have an understanding of what is being proposed. So, okay. Does the be just do any board members need any additional information before we make a decision? No. I'm sorry. No, go ahead. I do have a comment. Go ahead. No, go. No, I'm questioning if they act. I'm looking at the survey. I mean, it does look like the building is so close to the property line if the egress is out of the left hand side, which it is, up to the center, it does appear that it's crossing into off of the property, I guess, as well. And I guess if you can't egress out of your own property, I think there's potentially an issue here that I don't know if we have enough information totally way in on it at this point, but I don't know. That's a question for me. Aaron, can you clarify that? Yeah, the rest of that real left corner lands on a very skinny, and it's not six inches. We had George Collins of Boston Survey handle this for us, and it was very contentious at the time. And we ended up with somewhere substantial enough for a human to land, to turn, and come up that alleyway. For me to represent the amount of that dimension at this point in time would not be appropriate. I'd have to dig deeper if you need that answer. Certainly, this was an issue when we built the property, and we addressed it that both with Boston Survey and building inspectors, because we had permits in hand, and eventually obviously built this, got our certificate of our agency. But that wasn't an egress, because there wasn't a unit down there. Correct. So the egress is all tie-in to that staircase? Oh, all the way down from above, I see. Yeah, that gets out top unit, first floor unit, that gets everybody out. So I don't mean to say that your point is move. There's certainly a new unit we're discussing. That said, there are two units that were egressed this way since certificate of occupancy of the building. So can you hear me still, because there was a lawyer that said, well, I needed to be built, and so much took the wall down, and if the wall's there, no one could get out. And it is six inches from the property line. You know what? I'm having... I don't know how to dispose of this case, because obviously there's issues that we cannot address as we go. Yeah, we can. We can. We can. Yeah, so for the things that we can address, we're looking at two things. A change of occupancy from a two family to a three family. With a separate, not an extension of living space into the basement, but a unit in the basement. And second is the roof deck addition. Which one feels to me that the roof deck is easier to deal with? May I have a motion on the roof deck? I'll make a motion over roof. I'll second that, Eric. Okay. Ulik. Hi. Donk. Hi. Rijiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. Monato. Hi. Raul Jill also in support of motion carries. So the sticking point now is at 295 Web Street. The question before us is, since this is a recent construction, do we support the conversion from a two family to a three family? Because there seem to be a lot of technical issues related to that. And even though you've made the strong argument, Mr. Dagonal about the use of that space for a family member, the fact is that the egress seems to be very tight. And we just want to make sure that each lot, each family, each unit is supported entirely under a lot. So may I have a motion on 295 Web Street? Can I make a motion to defer for more information? Because I still don't think we have clarity on green and the windows and access. There's a motion for deferral. Is there a second? Blacken. Ulik. Hi. No. Rijiro. Hi. Robinson. Hi. I'm Rijiro. I, Rijiro, also in support of the date, please. I'm out, Jerenstahn. We can do over 25, 1130. Okay. And, Mr. Robinson, Mr. Ulik, be specific about the information we need to make a valid decision on this. That too, for your time. Thank you. I think we need more information on the actual natural grade and grade around the rear where the living is being proposed. The survey is blurry at best. I think we need a enlarged plan of that egress point and the adjacent property line to understand that more clearly. So, I think if we have those two bits of information, I think we could be able to weigh in on the lower level unit. I think even maybe a site visit, to be honest, because it's very confusing. I exactly how this is all working out, but that's a different issue. Okay. So, I've got it, Ann. Yes. Okay. Next case, please. Creative. Okay. Okay. All right. So, five magnolia places still on, right? Yes. Okay. 1, 2, 8, 0, 4, 2, 3, 5 magnolia places in what, 13? Violation to article 50 section 29, Laud area in sufficient, article 50 section 29, Florida, Eurasia, OXS. Article 50 section 29, unusable open space in sufficient. Article 50 section 29, Sideyard and sufficient. Article 50 section 29 Laud area in sufficient. Article 50 section 43, OXS. Parking of one. Maneuverability tandem space. Article 10 section 1 limitation of OXS. Parking areas on the side shall be separated five feet from the side bought line. The purpose is to convert a single family to a three-story two-family dwelling, replacing existing five-year-old family. And replacing existing foundation, expanding health, current, and as shown in the name and address for the right. So, please, before we proceed, just to let you know, this is six member board. You need five members in support. So, you can request a deferral. And if you decide to proceed, please tell us why you were deferred the last time. I would like to proceed. My name is Akash Lauer. I'm a former one at five magnolia place. I had to defer last time because I had to make the I had to show the proposed tandem parking drawing on the plot plan. That was one of the feedbacks I received. Okay. So, please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing to do. Start from scratch because we've seen a few projects since you were last year. Yes. So, I have a single family home, I'd like to convert it to a two-family home. How I propose to do that is by adding one story to the existing drawing and addition to an addition of 24 by 17 feet, which is also three stories. There will be a flat roof with a roof deck on there. Who is your architect? I do my clients. And then the engineer I work with will be my clients. What's that on the roof? Oh, that's a head house. A head house, is there an elevator in there? No. It's by stairs with owner accessible only by the owner and the owner unit is the second floor and third floor. My unit. Oh, you know what? I remember this now. Okay. With that roof deck. Yeah, that was a sticking, a sticking point for me. Okay. So. I just had to mention the BPD recommended. I don't, I'm not interested. I just want to know. Okay. So, tell us about the parking and how did you do the parking. So, it's 10 on parking. I don't have enough room on the street for parking. For full time parking. So, I'm proposing 10 on parking. I'm going to go back on the driveway. And I can be showing a scene on the, on the right there. So, what's the, so what's the, the dimension is 11 foot. And 11 feet to the, to the property line. Without any screening or anything. Okay. Right next to your stairs. Okay. Is Mr. Dominguez-Thalon? I'm, I'm Charlie, I'm, uh, Snowman. Okay. So, I guess this is the, what the applicant recently submitted. Which, um, which we had requested the last time it was the phone. So, this is a time for you to comment on it. Yes. I, I think, uh, spaced in between just a little bit too tight. Because, never but maybe a foot and a half to open the door. And, um, I just have to go down the record. It's, uh, being opposed to this parking design. Okay. Okay. Um, may I ask the homeowner? Is this something to think of? Got there? Or is this a new code? Okay. Existing. Okay. Got it. Okay. Existing driveway. Yeah. Okay. No, I get it. Okay. Um, so, um, and then, um, and then, um, let's talk about the extension, the, the, the floor extension. Um, that, that space in the eye. How big is that space on the third floor? Um, uh, uh, the second unit? Oh, the, so the, um, uh, the rental space. Yeah. Um, so the, the second floor is 824 square feet. And the third floor is 713 square feet. And is that the space that opens on to a deck? Correct. The third floor is, um, the fall rope, the stairs, uh, when you get to that. That's, uh, so, just like a 1600 square foot unit. Okay. Um, that's you too. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And, um, so is this the top, uh, top unit, the top floor? Um, what we're seeing right there? Yeah. Yes. That is the, correct. That's the third floor. And then, that's the roof deck. Oh, so that roof deck, um, can you scroll down just a little bit? So, so, okay. So that, the closet, and so that's basically a head house, then. Correct. Mark, what do you guys think? With it, but this is existing. Or, no, it's proposed. I thought he said the head house was already there. No, no, no. This is a, this is a small sort of two family, um, sorry, two story, kind of, man's are building, and he's proposing to basically take the roof off. It looks like an add a third floor. Uh, I think the confusion a little bit, at least as I'm looking at this, I mean, yes, there's a, there's a, a head house, which obviously we're not for head houses. There's a direct access from the third floor, which I understand. I'm trying to, I'm trying to understand the access point, because there's a lot of stairs on the exit. There's a lot of stairs on the exterior of it. And I guess we're going to, not because the second unit on the second floor, you're accessing through an exterior stair at the driveway side, correct? Yeah, there's two exterior stairs, and they both, um, off for the second. So, I mean, that stair cannot be inside the unit. I mean, 1600, it seems like there should be plenty of room for building to access the second floor. Is that not something you could, can you look at that? Maybe it was up to you, but that. Um, I, it was, so, so, really in space, it would certainly kind of turn to my living space, and certainly kind of turn to the first floor living space, and I think that's, that's very important to keep. Um, but it would provide the additional space for maybe to help with the parking construction, and the fact that you're, you know, I think there just needs a little bit of work here. I appreciate you're being a homeowner or architect, but I think there's just things that aren't really working necessarily. So, like from my point of view, I don't necessarily have a problem with the additional floor, actually. I have a problem with the, the headhouse. I just think there's some things that aren't quite working, um, in terms of the access, and then the site lane. So, it needs some work. So, you know, I don't know if that's a fair to push on to the BPA for design review, but I guess that's a pretty important news, Gus. Maybe what we need is a final deferral, and to please hire an architect to kind of think it through, okay, because, um, engineers look at it differently, um, and architects understand all the code and other issues, which might in the long run just help you, okay? Um, may I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. I'll second that motion. Okay, all right. All right. All right. Okay. No. Hi. Rosero. Hi. Robin's in. Hi. Pinato. Hi. A row Jo also in support the date. We can do our tour for 25th. Uh, if the applicant thinks that's enough time, I would never take a look at the plans again. Yeah. Until the time. I don't know. Well, I mean, I've had enough time for you. Um, yes, that there was enough time. And just to clarify, it's the stairs on the back. Is that stairs on the side? I think just the access in general for this. And then you heard Mr. Domingo on the, uh, regular proposal. The part of an enclosure. Is that, would that be sufficient? Um, you know, we can, we, we, you know, we can't have design conversations right now. You know, just hire somebody to just kind of think it through. Okay. Um, so we have that last case, 69th Saratoga Street. Uh, can we call that into the record? Yeah. Uh, concrete case B.O.A. 1160006169 Saratoga Street. Name and address of the record. Mr. Ambassador, any raised hands? No. May I have a motion, please for the now without prejudice? Motion, now without prejudice. Okay. Um, so just for the record, it is now two 10s. Uh, I know I will get to that. It's now 220. This project was a schedule for 1130. The motion was for the now without prejudice. It was moved in the second, last year. Right. Right. Right. Wrong. Right. Roger. Right. Robinson. Right. Sanado. I. Raul Jo also, so it's been denied with our prejudice. Thank you, everybody. Sorry for the extra long date. Enjoy your lunch. Thank you. Good, good. Good. Good, good. Good, good, good. you