 Good morning. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, August 23 is now in session. Just a reminder, please make sure all your cell phones are off. And if you have conversations, please take them outside of the room. I'm sure some of you have seen our agenda for today. We request that if you're here, we want to hear from you. We want to hear varied opinions on the projects either in support or in opposition. So please put your name and address on the record. And if somebody before you has already stated your concern, please do not repeat it. Just say my comments have already been stated so that we know we've been covering every topic. In performance with the Open Meeting Law, this meeting is being live streamed. And finally, we like to get the opinions from the neighbourhood and from the BRA. However, this Board looks at each project independently and will make a decision. Thus it's important for you to give us a real sense of what's happening rather than repeat what somebody else has said. So the first item on the agenda are the approval of the hearing minutes. So June 7th, 2016, do I have a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve the minutes for the June 7th, 2016 meeting. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye. Well, I'm not opposed. I vote far. I just wanted on the record that the format and I understand it's a work in progress, but the format is still insufficient. Okay, thank you. And that goes for that comments consistent for the three others. Thank you. July 12th, 2016. Madam Chair, I make a motion for the July 12th, 2016 meeting. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Again, July 26, 2016. Madam Chair, I make a motion for the July 26, 2016 meeting. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Finally, August 9th, 2016. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I make a motion for the August 9th, 2016 meeting. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. On to the board, final arbiter. Calling PCC 31871-471 West Broadway. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mark LeCasse. My business office is 75 Arlington, St. Boston. I represent SRP-471 Broadway LLC with me is George Katus, who is a member of the development team. This is a request for board, final arbiter, of a prior decision of this board as a result of reducing the size of this building. The prior approval had the building going to the rear lot line of the property, and it was subsequently discovered that the rear lot line included a 5.5 foot passageway that is shared with a couple of other buildings. The easement rights of the joint properties are somewhat unclear based on the rear passageway easement, which dates back to the 1800s. And the passageway dead ends behind this building, but out of an abundance of caution, we've reduced the size of the building by 33 inches, pulling it off the 5.5 foot passageway, leaving the entire passageway clear. So thereby, the floor plan of the building on the upper floors is also reduced by 33 inches, thereby reducing the degree of the prior zoning relief. And when you were here before, were you here for use violation two? There was a conditional use permit as well. What was it? For the multifamily residential use. Okay. And that remains the same. Okay. So there will be three residential units above a restaurant. And the building is being reduced in size. We filed an amended permit application with ISD, with the revised plans. And in response to that, ISD directed us to seek board final arbiter for the plans as well as to seek further BRA design review, which we submitted the revised plans to our prior BRA design reviewer. Mr. Pazani, do you have the plans? We do not have the plans. I have a copy of the plans that were filed with ISD. The number of units has been maintained. Same number of units. Three units above the restaurant. That's a simply reduction. Simply reduction, which is shown on the larger plan. The first floor in the basement level you'll see on the top. There's a dotted line that says property line. And the building has been pulled back to within the property line. I have that. Thank you very much. May I have a motion please? I'd like to make a motion to grant the relief requested. Like a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling the next case for the record. Calling BCC 31490150 West Forest Street. Madam Chair, I have a letter from the applicant with drawings. So I'll make an motion for denial without prejudice. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling BOA57110365 Green Street. May I have your name and address for the record, please? We good men, 1705 Columbus Ave, Jamaica Plain. Chef Goodman, 1705 Columbus Ave, Jamaica Plain. Dan Ratesh is 60 K Street, South Boston. Please tell us why you're here. During the geotechnical borings for this site, we're going to have underground parking. We found groundwater at 5.5, 6 feet throughout the site. It made the underground parking assembly unfeasible and unbuildable. So we went back and removed the unit at grade. So we shrunk the project one unit. And we now have at grade parking with a clouse lift that allows you to park up and underneath. So we now have nine parking places for eight units as opposed to nine parking places for nine units. And will the... You have a drawing that reflects that? Yes. And will the parking... Still be screened from the sidewalk? Yes. The exterior is essentially unchanged. The only difference is there's one garage door as opposed to two. And the height of the building changes as a result of the double-sack. It did not. Okay. Yeah. Lewis has seen it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. With continued BRA design, we will continue BRA design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Be called in the 930 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals to the 930 cases? Address please? 12 in 12c. Glenmont road, right? Before the record calling BRA 5-7-9656-12-12-C Glenmont road. Good morning. There was also... There's companion case BRA 5-7-9659-12-12-C Glenmont road. Maimentad just for the record please. Michael Floyd representing the outpourclined development group. Moving for deferral, we're continuing with the community process. Working with the Mayors office. We need to do one more community meeting. And this is our first request. We ask for your permit. So have you had community meetings? There have been some community meetings. There have been revisions to the plans. It's been expressed that need one more community meeting. I am coming into the case now. But we're confident with one more community meeting. This could be a success. And are there significant changes? The may be would just... My understanding is there's going to be a couple of other artists who are going to offer some more of their comments. And there may be another... Another change is a result of that. Could I ask one question? You also have a major building code violation on this. How are you attending to address that? It's my understanding that the architect is working with the Boston Fire Department. And that also is part and parcel of what we'll be seeking to do before the next hearing. This is a meeting with the Brighton Austin improvement. There will be one more meeting we're working with. It's not just in the Buddhist meeting. No, no. We have a vote. This is a first. Second. Second. Hi. Thank you. You have a date of 1116. So November 1, 2016. Great. Thank you. Calling next case. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? No. When I'm just a refresher to all neighborhood residents who are here. When the applicant requests a deferral, we grant it. We also put the date when we will re-hear the case on the record. So we will anticipate hearing the case again on November 1st at 1130. OK? But please continue with the community process. OK? Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals that the registered. Thank you. It's a little bit good. That's OK. Can I address please? 31 Bardwell Street, Unit 2, Jamaica Plain. Fuller record calling, VOA 61161231 Bardwell Street. Name and address, fuller record please. Adam and Ellen Zolkowski, 31 Bardwell Street Unit 2, Jamaica Plain. Please tell us what you're requesting. We're requesting a deferral. We need a little more time with the community process. We've been working with our butters, Dave Barron and Julian Dirty to complete the community process. We have our community meeting tomorrow evening. We have a buttersupport. We have neighborhood support. But we haven't had our Jamaica Plain zoning meeting yet. OK. So this is just the renovation of the third flow with a dormer. Yes, ma'am. So how large is this dormer? We are just at 60 additional square feet. We're just over FAR. So you have 60 additional square feet? Yes, ma'am. Of living space. OK. Question to the board. Do we need to defer this or not for 60 square feet? Madam Chair, if I may, this is really a very de minimis project. OK. Well, I understand the need for request for the deferral. It's not clear to me what that will do. OK. I'll have been somebody who laid the appellance of ability to proceed with that project. OK, ma'am. Have a motion? Well, I think the ma'am is not. So I have a question for our community. Is our environment just meeting tomorrow night? We have no problem with the meeting continuing because I think having community involved is important. But for a de minimis project, may I have a motion? I want to make a motion to deny it. Do you have your drawings here to set any of your prepared to go ahead? Yes, sir. I want to make a motion to deny the request for deferral. Allow the appellant to go ahead today. OK. Is there a second? No second, that motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? So we will hear your case in sequence. Address, please? 114 Washington Street. My class in this dual-league, yes. OK, so calling, there's two cases here. Calling B-O-A 570-555-114-126 Washington Street. It's also companion case B-O-A 570-079-114-126 Washington Street. So are you just requesting one? OK, over. On one case, because I noticed there are two different names. Yes. The other one has nothing to represent that person. OK. The, where seeking is a certificate of occupancy for one of the commercial units. We did that commercial building. There's a six-seventh establishment. The specific one in our matter is 114 Washington Street. Prior to... Is it this 570-079? Just to make sure that... Yes, it is. Madam Chair, we're this. Yes. OK. And tell us what you're requesting. Yes. My client is seeking to open up a liquor store. I will be tendering a copy of this proposal for the right to the board. Prior to... Wait, hold on. Let me just find it. Are you requesting a deferral or withdrawal? No, we're requesting... You're going to go ahead? Yes. OK, so please have a seat bill call you in sequence, OK? OK, thank you so much. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals? It's deferrals or withdrawals only? There, we'll go back to the first case. Calling BOA 610-102-1027-1033 Commonwealth Avenue. This is the sports center, video game stations, eSports, events space, and accessory cafe, violations article 65, section 15, entertainment amusement games machine is forbidden use for this location. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Dennis Quilty, my name is Jonathan Quote. And your representative, the applicant, with me to my immediate right, is Beth Woodard, who is a project architect. My father right in one limb, who is the proponent of this application. Good morning. Good morning. Tell us what's being proposed. This is a renovation of a vacant former recording studio space in the Austin neighborhood, out in the near the BU campus near the Star Market and other large enterprises. And there you can see it from the photos in the front. This is a very interesting proposal for in the sports center. Something that you may not be familiar with, but is an extremely popular national and international sport recognized in many places. In colleges and universities these days, certainly international competitions and the like. This location will provide a place for key gamers, if you will, to compete against one another, to play video and e-games to observe competitions, which are literally broadcasts from around the world and held in stadiums in some locations around the world in the country. For Mr. Quilty. Yes, ma'am. Yes. So tell us what's the capacity at this space? It's shown in the diagram and that's what you can give us to numbers. So toward the back, I think it's the third sheet from the back of the booklet. It states that there's a maximum occupancy of $2.92 regarding the program and the square footage. It's 6270 square feet net. And it is Dennis was saying it's a new sports center with an accessory cafe. And tell us about the cafe. The cafe is very small. They're going to be serving fries, panini, subs. The real healthy stuff. Yeah. OK. My energy drinks, coffee, tea, water, things and age and no alcohol. OK. OK. And are there going to be any changes to the exterior? Yes, ma'am. Yes. So I think it's a couple of pages right before that. There are a few renderings. And there's a modest storefront. I can just show you right here as well. And we are just cleaning up the storefront, putting in new windows, new door, simple sign, smell, lots of big. That's about it. It's very simple. How will it be monitored? How will it be monitored? Monitored yet? It will be staffed the entire time. There'll be people inside as responsibility as to monitor activities. People at the door, as you can see, as a main entrance, emergency exit behind. But people will come and go from the same entrance on the street. It's well lit. There's a restaurant. I was sighted at the Ropenquite Lake. And security cameras throughout the security cameras. And what are the hours of operation? They're supposed to be open from probably about late morning, from noon till until 2am. And we have to go through the cafe as well. The whole locker room. Yes. And then again, that cafe will not have an alcohol license. It's food only. It's sort of a CV license app. We'd have to go to the entertainment division as well for this to get a license for the use. We have had a very successful series of meetings twice with the Austin Civic Association. I think unanimously, we're certainly overwhelmingly in support. We had an butter's meeting on site conducted by the mayor's office, which was also very positive we received. They've had interactions with their neighbors and the butter's in a very positive way. Residential tower behind us, businesses on either side and across the street. They're all looking forward to this, mostly because this space has been empty for many, many years. It's kind of an isolate. Thank you. How was the plan? It's mostly the old one. The big article in Sunday's Harold, which is included as well about the concept. That was the one. I'll go to the plans, Mr. Bazzani. Drone's ready. Any questions from the board? I'll turn it quote. Question, the operation will there be private parties and will they be required to operate under the same hours? Yes and even. If you look at the facility, if you enter, it's a large L. If you come in the front door, your stations, cafeteria, cafe, and then off to the right is an event space. And this is where literally people could rent the space for games or you would have a program there that could be broadcast from Tokyo or Seoul or Los Angeles of these large international events that people come and watch these people game and play. Or it could be a private function for a birthday party or a business party or some other stuff. Yes. OK. Did we loud music? No. No. Background. Yeah, just back there. We're about to our music. If you think about the gaming facility itself, the front tunnel you come into, they're sitting at computers, playing the games. They have headphones on. And so the music really is all that meaningful. Anybody should be pretty back there. The noise is up here for the individual game, right? As long as you have a head on, you can have this big event. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Warner Alley, also right now, and after our butter's meeting and civic meetings that went both very well, we're here to speak in support of this project. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polonco, and we have a Councillor Mark Cio, an electrical and record in support as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Peter Sierp, and I'm the carpenter. Do you know where I can vote for this support? Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion approval, be our redesign review for exterior work. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set with that supervisor. Thank you. Following the next case, calling BOA 611-612-31-Bodwell Street. This is renovation of an existing third floor, a build-a-dorma, relocate bedrooms, and bathroom. New windows and one exterior door. May I have an address for the record, please? I'm sorry. But the violation of Article 51 Section 948 ratio is excessive. May I have an address for the record, please? Good morning, Adam and Ellen. Zolkowski, 31 Bartholstreet Unit 2, Jamaica Plain. So please tell us what's being proposed? We're proposing a modest dormer for the east side of our house, which will add 60 square feet of additional living space. Okay. How would the plans miss the Pazani? We're going to arrange it. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm Ms. LeVorigely, and Jordan, here as Office of Nativehood Services. At this time, I just need to go on record that we are asking for the referral, just to complete the local JP community process, the abundance of our employer. They absolutely have been willing to work with their abusers, and for my understanding, they do have a better support. I just want to go on the record, though, to ask the referral. Thank you so much. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with the NOBRA Design Review, but you are to attend the meeting tomorrow. Okay. Okay. There's a motion for approval. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Calling B08592-24835 Patton Street. This is to extend living space to the basement area. Violations Article 9, Section 1. Extension of a nonconforming use. An Article 55, Section 9. Floody air ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Shoroma Tiet, 35 Patton Street, Jamaica Plane. Please tell us what you're proposing. We're proposing to extend a living space by finishing a portion of the basement. Okay. And what's going to be in that living space? It's going to be a family room. Okay. And what's the floor to ceiling height? Approximately 8 feet. Okay. How would the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Drugs or agriculture? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, madam Chair. Members of the board, Gillian Durety, there's office and neighborhood services. We'd like to go over the support of this application. The application has gone through the local community process as well as the waters. And they have earned support. Thank you so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Andrew Baldazan from the Office of District 6 City Councilor of Maddo Malley. We'd like to go on record and support with this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. On behalf of this Councilor's Councilor at Laugh and Michael Flaherty, Councilor DeWon, record support. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? The proposal with BRA Design Review. There is second. No, no, no. No, design. It is motion for approval. Motion for approval. There is second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. File 6-0-2-969-981-993-Morton Street. This is to construct an entry vestibule on the right side of the building by 21 foot by 39 foot and rear canopy at the rear of the building by 36 feet, 88 feet. Violation is article 9 section 1, an extension of 19 forming youth. Name and address for the record, please. Rost Bozler, 19.5-0-2-92-Mastichussitz. Stuart Rosen, 981-Morton Street, Madagascar. So please tell us what's being proposed? Yes, members of the board. This proposal was actually before the board, not in this format, back in 2014 at which time we were granted approval for a two-story addition to the existing retail establishment. Business model changed. We had to go in a different direction. And so what we were proposing at the present time is to create an entry vestibule which is more modest than we had originally proposed, as well as a rear canopy area in which customers may pick up products, especially during bad weather times. We have not swayed, however, in our desire to improve the overall appearance and delivery of service to customers, the persons of DHS to rematapian. And we would respectfully request positive action at this time. So how large is this entry vestibule that's being proposed? It is approximately, I believe it's 29 by 14 feet, 16 feet. It is described right here. Then the canopy area highlighted in the yellow would just be in the rear of the property there with a little kiosk where, you know, persons coming to pick up larger orders could do so under the cover of the canopy itself. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Pizani? And drawings are added quickly. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, members of the board, Ruth George, Mayors, Office of the Naval Services. We'd like to go on record for the board. Excuse me. In opposition. May I have a motion, please? We'll be to approve with BRA design review. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? It's been approved with that proviso. Thank you very much. Following the next two cases, calling BOA 589272-246-246A Noel Street. Noel Street here. We'll run a few minutes late. We'll go to the next case and hold these. For the record, calling BOA 610-548-55-Raya Idaho Street. This is to erect a new garage 18x18 in the rear of the existing property. The existing garage should be demolished. Violation is Article 9, Section 1. Accessory use of a three-family occupancy and a 1F sub-district. An Article 65, Section 42. Accessory buildings in the side are rare of the yards. Accessory buildings may be erected in the side are rare. Provided there's no accessory building in more than 15 feet to pipe and there are then 4 feet to any side of the rear lot line. Name and address for the record, please. Anita Burgess, 55 Idaho Street, Mattapan Math, 02126. Please tell us what's being proposed. Can you speak up please? I'm not talking about the garage that's structurally unsafe on the same spot, same size. The footprint of the current building is 18x18. 18x18. And how high is the current garage? It's currently 14 feet high or just slightly higher. How tall are you proposing the new garage to be? Less than 14 feet or exactly the same height. Okay. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Bazzani? The drawings are adequate. This is just a very simple garage. Is any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm members of the board. The George May is opposite of one services. We did complete the butters meeting and at the community process. There's no opposition to what she wants to do simply because she's just replacing what was there. And it's a garage. It's garage. Yeah. I'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Sheedham, Councillor Andrea Campbell's office. We'd also like to go and record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval and I'll be our representative. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Rolling B.O.A. 598-9191-2-491-493-Aschmont Street. That one's free. Yeah. This is a change actually from a two family to a three family and convert the existing third floor into a condo. Violation, article 65-section 8. Proposed read failing and a two F sub district is forbidden. Article 65-section 9-insufficient Laudieria. Article 65-section 9-accessive FAR. Article 65-section 9-number of stories allowed have been exceeded two and a half to max. Article 65-section 9-insufficient Griehjad setback 30 feet required. Name and address for the record please. For the record, my name is Robert Allen. I'm a top practice 300 Washington street and Brookline with me is Sean Roach, the owner of the property. Before we proceed, just for the record, Mr. Galvin has recused himself. So please tell us what's being proposed. Sure. This is a request. This initially, my client purchased the property about a year ago. Maybe a little bit beyond a year ago. He's going to put some substantial renovations into the property. This had been used previously as a three family from the exterior. It looks like a three family. The records indicate that it actually was illegal too. We're here to convert it into legalized essentially that third unit. We can do so. We have support from the mayor's office. We have support from the neighbors. So please tell us about, talk to us about the project itself. So you're converting the existing third floor into living space and erecting dormers. That's correct. I have Sean Filiwin on the construction. I have a existing third floor at a kitchen and bathroom already. And I need to put dormers in to bring it up to code for the stair for egress. I see. And what's the square foot of that third unit proposed to be? It will be around a thousand square feet when completed. Okay. So, and one of the violations is the height. How high is this building going to be? It's not an violation of the height right now. That's the way the egress that was in violation. We have to increase the dormer there. The height doesn't change at all. The violation. The violation that originally was a two and a half story building. And now because you're occupying the third floor. What's the ceiling height? Look at the ceiling height of the third floor. Oh, it's a three story building. Yeah, it's a three story building. Yeah, it's three stories and not two and a half. Okay. What is the ceiling height in the... It will be 9 foot six. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Drines are adequate. Any questions from the board? Along with you on the building? I brought it in November of 2015. Okay, so this work had already been done before you bought it? The kitchens were in there for the first... They were first in there. Far back as we can look in the records. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. My name is David Carter from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to want to record and support health and on-site meeting. That was well attended. All who attended expressed their support. He also has the support of the Pope's Hill Neighborhood Civic Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. Jill McGaprin, City Councilor Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board of all Sullivan. I'm the opposite of the Councilor at large. Michael Flaherty, Councilor at the Goenrican Support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with the BRA design. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that provider. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. Thank you. Dr. Mullen, the委. 570-555-114-126 Washington Street. There's no work to be done. The proponent is seeking to remove the provisal, granting the take-out to the previous petitioner only. You seek to operate as they take out restaurant, violation of Article 7, Section 4, change in the previous decision from the ZVO to provide them. Name an address for the record, please. Well, the dawn's savage six fail on that, Madam Chair. And the prop 56 Corona Street. Can you speak up a little bit? That's just recording. It's not a mic. And the prop 56 Corona Street bossen, Madam Chair. Thank you. Tell us what you're proposing to do. There's currently a restaurant there. So we're just looking to open the restaurant, same location, no work to be done, no changes, and I have a granted take-out. And what's the name of the restaurant? Ye-loos. Ye-loos. Okay. And have you experienced with running a restaurant but take-out? The other parties involved are yes. Yes? Yes. So you won't be running the restaurant? And running it, no. Okay. And tell us what the exterior looks like. Does it have, is there a signage? Are there greats? The upgrades, yes. There are great, yes. Okay. Yes, yes. Okay. How do the plans look, Mr. Bazzani? Dr. Dred. Any questions from the board? The current restaurant have a take-out option. The previous, we're the current owners. But the previous, but not the previous. Yes. Backed to Schnell only. Is anybody here who speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. Flavia DeVega, Mayor's Office, name of the service. We'd like to go on record and support this application. They worked with Main Street's business. And we're also working with the ability known to see if there's a possibility to do a still-front improvement on that location as well, so we're going record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Chateau, Councillor and Dre Kambel's Office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Did you want to go on record? Yes, Madam Chair. Thanks very much. Okay, I feel the possibility of development and marketing. As you can see in our recommendation for this property, our recommendation was to how without a budget, however, that's not to move this particular petition. The authority would like to go on record and support and take out this recommendation is full of the liquor store. Okay, thank you. Based on that information, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve the take-out, was used your take-out language? And to this petition only? I thought we went to a net in the end. Okay, and with BRA Design Review? There's no work to be done, right? No, what we've done. Well, there are greats on the building. So... We're also going to be here. We've been assigned a time to go in. Yes. Okay. So may... We're here, you're assigned to the offer. May I have a second? Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Following your next case, calling BOA5790719114 to 126 Washington Street. Madam Chair, this has been re-abitized for September 13, 2016, because there was a new violation. So the proponent should have deferred when he did come up. Okay, did you hear that? There is a new violation. There was a new violation through council. There was a new violation. This has been re-abitized for 913, 2016. May we ask for the new violation? Please, please set that open right now. I'm unaware what the new violation actually is. I've been informed by staff at ISD that it was originally advertised for today. Subsequent to that, a new refusal letter was issued. And because of that, the notices that went to 50, or the notice, the new additional violation. I'm not sure what it is specifically. So we had to re-advertise this result. So it's re-advertised for 913. Matt, can you put your name and your responsibility on the record for the applicant? Matt Fitzgerald from the legal division of the Inspectoral Service Department. Okay. 913, 930 AM. So may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion for deferral. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And the date of September 13, 2016. At what time? 930. 930. Okay. We'll see you then. Thank you. Calling B085940395 Spring Garden Street. This property was bought to current owner within closed porch, legalized the existing closed porch. The violations, Article 9, Section 1, three family and a two family zone. Article 65, Section 9, excessive FER. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient side yet setback in deck and closed porches. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient gray yet setback. Name and address, further racket, please. Josh Bloomberg, two Rollins Street Boston Mass. So tell us what is happening on this property? Yep. So when we bought the building just over two years ago, I was a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger, a little younger brother. Those things he scheint. Those are in his pocket. To change things and things that he could not openly tell us about in his closet, to change things and things that he could have listened to. Then the story he could have read at the time was ours. Then the story he could have read at the time was ours, the story he could have listened to in his and things that he could have listened to in his and the story. When he spoke at that time, when he spoke at that time, when he spoke at that time, there was friends from home, at about this moment, and he spoke at that time, and he talked at that time, when he spoke at that time, the story he could have read at the time, when he spoke at that time, when he spoke at that time, he talked at that time, and he spoke at that time, and So, yeah. Go ahead. The Susan is the rule for unrelated people or five. It's four. It's not one or four. Okay. That's interesting. So, in essence, one of those units has five veterans with this proposal. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. Any questions on the board? Where is parking occurring on this? Street parking. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is David Carter from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecognit support. He met with the Abudders. I'll be a butters. Express their support as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Joe McGehrer and the Council of Frank Baker's office. Related to unrecognit support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? A motion to approve the application. All those favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? I'm opposed for following the reason that had this been brought before us, before it was built, I do not believe this board would be in favor of increasing the bedroom count by that much. Okay. Anybody out in opposition? I'm going to change my opinion. I'm going to change. Okay. I'm just going to move. Okay. So I am voting in opposition. So the motion for approval does not carry. It's been denied. Okay. Calling an X-case. Calling BOA 609-901-666 Massachusetts Avenue. There's also a companion case of building code BOA 609-904-666 Massachusetts Avenue. This is to change actually from a funeral home in one dwelling unit to five residential units. Renovate and add roof decks. The violations, Article 64, Section 34, restricted roof structure district. Article 64, Section 10, density limitation regulations. Article 32, Section 4, G-Card applicability. Article 64, Section 9, large area for the additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 64, Section 9, floor to air ratio is excessive. Article 64, Section 9, usable open space is insufficient. Article 64, Section 36, R3 parking requirement is insufficient. Article 64, Section 8.2, basement unit is forbidden. Article 64, Section 9.4, town, a row house extension into the rear yard. This is building code. The IBC Chapter 2, Section 202, dwelling unit definition is defined as an independent unit designed for occupancy by one family for the purpose of cooking, living, and sleeping. The top floor unit is not an independent as the code refers because it's designed to provide access to the roof common areas. Second violation of the building code is IBC Chapter 10, Section 1021.1 exits from the stories. All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum number of two approved independent exits as specified in the code. For the purpose of this chapter, occupied roof shall be provided with exits as required for stories. The common areas on the roof has only one means of egress. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Attorney John Pogini, Ten Flows Road, Brain Tree Mass. This morning I have with me Shane Albright, who's a developer at Lawnham Melissa Cooper, who is also a developer on this project. Procedurally, we would at this time like to withdraw our appeal with respect to the building code violations and work that out with ISD. Do you have revised building plans? We do not. We spoke to the architects and he's going back to the, if Mr. Visani reviewed the plans, the fourth, the roof deck is the main violation on the building code violations is an exclusive use area only for the fourth unit, unit four. So we're just trying to tighten that up with ISD so we respectfully request that we withdraw the appeal and work it out. Obviously they wouldn't be able to issue a building permit unless that were resolved prior. I'm very important to deny the building code release and you can just go ahead and work it out. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? That request for code release has been denied. Councillor Cone, I'll ask a question now. Exactly. What are we being asked to prove today? So just the violations with respect to the zoning issues that I would go through right now. The change of occupancy from a funeral home and one dwelling to five residential units. That is correct, Madam Chair. Okay, so please speak to us about that. Sure. So, six, six, Mass Ave. This is a site of a form of funeral home in one unit. The proposal is you to state it is to convert this into five residential condominium units. There will be five units, there will be a garden level. That's a thousand, thirty two square feet, two bedroom, two bath with nine and a half foot sailing heights. First floor will be 1123 square feet, two bed, two bath, 81 square foot balcony. That's 11 foot eight inches. Second floor, 721 square feet, two bedroom, one bath, nine foot eight sailing heights, third floor, unit three, seven, twenty eight square feet, two bedroom, one bath, nine foot, three sailing heights, and fourth floor is 835 square feet, one bedroom, one bath, seven foot ten and sailing heights. This also has existing two parking spots and we will retain those two parking spots. So, tell us, so the first unit, so the garden, garden unit is what, what is the size of the garden unit? So the garden unit is a thousand, thirty two square feet. So it's a traditional, as you would see in the south end of the back bay when you come in the front by the stairs that would come down. And it's a full walk out on the back level. Okay, and tell us about the first floor unit, what's the size? 1123 square feet, madam chair. And so, is it that one floor is divided into two, that we have then go down to 700 square feet each? No, they're all individual units. So all together there would be five units, the garden level unit, would be one individual unit. So, the first floor, which is the one you just asked about, second floor being 721 square feet. Yes, so what's the, what causes the big change in unit sizes from 1000 to 700 square feet? Can you explain that? Can you explain the layout with the bisonnys? The second floor is a built-in step-spaque. I see. Okay. So, the roof deck is exclusive use to unit four. The whole, as far as building out a miss building, with the footprint of the existing structure, there's small dormers that are on the back that developed, which told me it's basically 150 square feet with respect to the dormers. We have had an embarrased meeting, which we had 100% support of. And I provided with you today a letter from the Worcester Square, the neighborhood association, that also is in support of this project. So, tell us, how is that roof deck accessed? So, currently the roof deck is accessed from the fourth floor, fourth floor unit. With a hatch or... A stairwell with a hatch at the very top of the stairwell. Okay, with a hatch access. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Bisonney? I'm trying to show adequate. Any questions from the board? There's a G-Cut citation, right? So, that's another issue. Questions? I think I'm asking. We request holding signatures until we get the confirmation back from Water. Sir, I didn't see you earlier. That's fine. I'm Marty Mamm, Chairman of the Board. Christian Simonelli, ground water trust. The plan's out before Water and Silver Soul would just request a whole for signature with this time. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Sam Schemberg's Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to welcome your support. The applicant has completed the community process and there's no opposition at this time. So, we'd like to welcome your support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Joe McGehrkman, City Council, Frank Baker's Office. Would you like to also go and recommend support? Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion? I do have one question. I'm sorry, your act isn't here, but... You know, there's a rule that says that each capital rule is supposed to have eight square feet, minimum of 8 percent of the floor area, open floor ventilation and window. You have a bedroom captured in the basement. I know you caught a garden here, but it's a basement. You have a bedroom captured in that basement, zero light and air. How do you deal with that? The front bedroom should have the... The front bedroom, right about the front bedroom. I'm talking about the bedroom that is locked between the kitchen and the bathroom. You're bounded on both sides by a budding building wall, so you can't punch a hole through there. And there's a weak note that says something about providing mechanical ventilation. We will provide the mechanical ventilation, and then we're open to any suggestions as far as changing that rear. It's a really design issue for your act. And the other thing is, it's not clear to me, you have to go to a building code violation that focus on the deck. Correct. It's not clear to me how in a five-family building, we only have really one means of address. Where is the second means of egress off the second floor? We talked about this. There's a rear deck that's being added to the rear elevation that has the fire scape off the rear. And there's also the front means of egress from the stairwell. I see that on the upper floor, but I can see it on the second floor. Again, so you have withdrawn your vehicle violation. Okay. Cash is died. So the question is then, is that that basement unit? Well, that should pop up as well. Is it in fact a two bedroom or is it a one bedroom? May I have a motion please? Yes, from a given life question from a zoning point of view, I'm going to make a vote. The grant will be for a question. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And we will hold signature until we get the G-Cod. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-613-522, 1000 Massachusetts Avenue. This is the change I'm seeing in establishing adult daycare and use of the occupies of suite 101. The violations, Article 90, Section 30, Section 13, Office of Street Pocom requirements is insufficient. An Article 90, Section 7, adult daycare, J-CaER Center is a provision of naming address for the record please. John Garman, 43 Charles Street, Boston. Good morning. What is being proposed? What is being proposed is adult daycare for the rear half of this first story of this building. Adult daycare is not listed in this new building. What is the use of the building? The only use right now, it's a building that was just recently renovated. The front half of the first floor is an electrical supply company called RxL, R-E-X-E-L. And this daycare, adult daycare use is proposed for the back half of the first floor. It's a two-story building with a basement. Okay. So tell us about this adult daycare. How many square feet? I can read the address on the record. Sure. My name is Doug Schoep. I'm the architect for the project and the address is one shipyard way, Medford, Massachusetts. And the first floor, as John said, was currently occupied by RxL, he moved in at the first part of this year. The building was completely gutted and re-reinvated last year. And the back half, which is approximately the top of my head, is 9,169 square feet. And I can show you this diagram here. This is the entire parking lot. This is where RxL is right now. Here's Mass-Av. And this is the back half of the one-story. This half only has one floor over it. The front half, this was an addition that was put on, I think maybe in the 70s or 60s. This one is the three level. There's no basement over here. There's a basement here. First floor, RxL. So, yes, please talk to us about the daycare. The adult daycare. Okay, now. They're currently located. Who's the operator? Laleanza. Okay, excellent. That's good to know. Yes. And tell us how many adults are being anticipated coming there for a care? I'll answer that first and then Marissa can answer the rest. There currently will be about seven staff. And they have a company that busses the adults on a daily basis in and out during the typically work day hours. And I will also address the parking issue, which was also part of the zoning. But they will come, drop them off. The bus that drops them off will not be on site during the day or in the evening. It's a private company that... And how about the staff, this requirement for seven staff people? Correct. So, is there adequate parking for the staff? Yes. Based on all of our calculations and right out of the article 90, I believe that we have... No, I have it on my chart here. We have an additional 28 parking spaces over what's minimum required by the zoning ordinance. Thank you. Can you please put your name and address on the record and tell us who will be running this facility and how? Solar Maya for the four, one and three, Boston. Okay. And so this is... So tell us about your role in this. I am the second editor, Lallian Sanis Patan, who is going to run the Adobe Care Pro, but I am in one place. Is this being relocated from somewhere else? Yes. From where? We are located right now in 63 parking here, all over you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The drives are adequate. I do have a question. What is the capacity in terms of clients or people? How many people will be in this room at one time? The faculty that will be around 60 participants. Oh, sorry. 60? 60 at the time. Thank you. But it's 60. Question. All together or is it 60... Do you have 60 people registered, but the capacity on different days varies? Yes. Okay. This is a very highly industrial area. Is this a right location for something like this? Is that one location really accessible to the public transportation and really for the staff? The really accessible to the post-medical center where a majority of our participants go to see the premieres. They really come here for the families to stop by the video. How do I speak for? I know also the part is the street in the back of the Mass Avenue. One block is a part and also is really walking the east up from the target, the mass, the stop and charge. There is a really convenient space and really quiet places. What is the age range of people who are part of the program? The age is between 45 and 80. So, in one percentage, it's coming in by bus. That's what's described in the process. Everybody wants to come by the provided transportation that we provide. And it's a subcontract transportation. They can drop it off and they only come specifically. Okay. Any other questions? I have a question for the architect. Did I understand that the space is 9,000 square feet? Correct. So, what is the occupancy that 9,000 square feet will support? If you take 15 square feet of person, it's a lot. A lot more than 60. Well, what I'm trying to get at is the space looks so big and I'm trying to figure out how only 60 people fit in it. So, we can answer that question. I'm very glad of it. It's a 52-hour-connows street architect and president of the board of the SA Spana. The capacity is governed by the regulations that license the daycare facility. You have a certain number of square feet per client given the 9,000 which is gross. But the net square feet is closer to 7,500 square feet. The regulation will allow us to serve about 60 people holding backs with the number of bathrooms, etc. Because bathrooms always and the cafeteria is no counter space available for the participants. So, all my spaces are in the department. So, you're regulated by the state on... Okay. And there's no attempt to use this in a social medium that is for a reception, gatherings, whatever. So, it's going to be dedicated adult. And the regulation of the meeting and the development is what it is approved by the government. So, we've gone on and now what operation comes in to regarding a party is not made up. Okay. Any other questions? Is anybody here to speak in support? Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGecklin, City Council, Frank Baker's office will like to echo the sector into the mayor's office. Madam Chair, members of the board, through some of the executive director of the marketing business association. We are on record as being very much in support. We were very involved with last year's roll of reasons that the mayor's office said, but also because we were involved with Article 90, was put together three years ago, trying to consolidate 20 pages of zoning into the floor to make it more inclusive. Under the Zillowry services, we actually talk about daycare services and all as being accepted use. It was not specifically stated, and we are working with ISD and the VRNA to try to restore it. We don't have to keep it coming before you, like this again. Okay. Can I see them? Thank you. We are here in opposition. Mayor, have a motion, please. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Before I call the last cases for 930s, I'm going to call the 1030 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals? That is deferrals or withdrawals only for the 1030 cases? George, address please. For the record calling, BOA 599907156, Athens Street. Name and address for the record, please. Mr. Attorney, business address for 350 West Groglake. Is that all gone? A man in the queue. Members, this record can be a separate record. Hold on one second. Can you guys take the conversation outside of the room? No. Okay. Sorry. I couldn't hear you. I hope one thing. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Emotion carries. The date, please. Move a date of October 4th. Thank you. Address, Richard? One, nine, four, our treat. Fuller, record calling, BOA 587183195, Hobb Street. Name and address, fuller, record, please. Morning, on that chamber, the board, Richard Lins, tossing, see headed to the street. We have a position there. There's a party on this one. This guy, one community, from what I understand, it could use a bit more of a new process. We have a new community in process in this schedule. And an extra two weeks, we'll leave the room. Many of the issues have been raised by some of the other staff members. We have a motion, please. And we're very. Is there a second? Second thing. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. You have a date of October 18th. Address, Tim? 644-646-E-ST-3. Fuller, record calling, BOA 605-834-644-646-E-ST-5-Street. Name and address, fuller, record, please. Tick, toss, and architect, 190, both on the air, Boston. Madam Chair, members, the board. Today, we had two aboveers meeting. Meeting for the Sloan-Archist 5, two family. We're near, offer minds, who just did one more aboveers meeting. And we're available for subcommittee work, full boards, and so on. So this is to alter the two family to include what is it including? A new front and roof decks? That's right. The ground floor units, we are sitting on the base. We're at the front and square footage. And then the top units, we're adding a partial third floor and the addition of the streamer roof deck. And what does all this, what's the total number of square foot increase that is being proposed? It will be free by the foot of 1,500 back units, around 1,300 square feet. So I would say it's approximately about a square, 35, 40 percent increase in square foot. OK. And what's the basement use being proposed? The basement use will be for facility and two bedrooms, which above have any restrooms. OK. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? You'll have a date of September 27th. Thank you, Madam Chair. I move the floor. Adress, please. 5,30, and you start streaming. So the record calling VOA 578 360 530 E. Sturd Street. Name an address for the record, please. The only 538 33. That is what you're requesting? Chair, I'm sorry for my first time for collecting the third. Why? I don't have a standard number of the ones being put in the neighborhood. OK. And what are you proposing? I'm proposing a 444 family room on call and fill. May I have a motion, please? No, please. Further? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? The date of October 4th. Thank you. Are there any other? What's this R-rated deferred once? What's the address again? 538 33. 538 33. This was a split. This appeared before us on the 16th of June, then the 14th of July. Now the 23rd of August. Now, why is it as a new hearing and not as a rediscovered? Right. There was a amendment to the plans and to put a 440. Please be louder, please. Go to the addition to the plan and put a 440. So you changed the proposal? Did you withdraw anything? I don't know where the plans went through. And then we put the other. We put the 4th floor on and the 4th telling you the last day. We're just having a hard time hearing. It's time to hear it. Can you come up here and speak more clearly? No, no, right there. The original plans were submitted and approved. And we started construction. And then in the time of construction, we added a 440, which then got denied. Wait, were you at the subcommittee? No, this is the second time I've been here. No, okay, let's just go over to history. On the 16th of June, you were here in Laster, D'Furl. You gave it to you from the 14th of July. The 14th of July, you came back and asked for deferral to today. So I'm very confused as to how something couldn't be better called. Is it that you didn't show it to July meeting? I was not here in July. Sorry? I was not here in July. No. I knew we're not at 10, 10 months ahead of July either. For the meeting, the subcommittee meeting. No, it was not. Okay. You know what? Let's defer this and let us make sure that it's in rediscussion so that we are clear about what's happening. Okay. Sorry, we've already made a motion. I've changed it. Well, I didn't go to deferral, so I'm going to go against. What did we have? We had October 4th. 10.4. Okay, so make sure all the adults that are in a row when we see you on October 4th. We'll do. Okay, thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 10.30 cases? Hearing none, we're going to go back to the last two cases of the 9.30 cases calling B-O-A-589-272-246-246-A-Norwell Street. There is a companion case B-O-A-589-269-248-248-A-Norwell Street. This is for 246-246-A. This is direct to two family residential buildings with one-arct street parking. The violations, Article 65, Section 41. Incefficient on-street parking, point 9. Article 65, Section 42.2. Side yacht in which there is a driveway providing access to on-street parking required, so it will be not less than 10 feet wide. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, front yacht depth, 19 feet, 19 foot 5. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, lot area, 5,000 square feet. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, lot width, 50 feet. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient lot, frontage, 50 feet. Article 65, Section 9 exceeds the maximum floor area ratio of 0.5. Article 65, Section 9 exceeds the maximum number of stories of 2.5 stories. And Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, side yacht, width of 10 feet. This is for 248 to 248, 248 A, Noelwell Street. This is to direct new two family residential buildings with one on-street parking. The violations, Article 65, Section 41. Incefficient on-street parking, point 9. Article 65, Section 42.7. Side yacht in certain narrow lots, no side yacht with there is a driveway providing access to on-street parking. Shall be less than 10 feet wide. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, front, yacht, depth of 19.5. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, lot area, 5,000 square feet. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, lot width of 50 feet. Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient lot, frontage, 50 feet. Article 65, Section 9 exceeds the maximum floor area ratio of 0.5. Article 65, Section 9 exceeds the maximum number of stories of two and a half stories. And Article 65, Section 9. Incefficient minimum, side yacht, depth of 10 feet. Name and address for the record please. Travis Lee, 107, Adam Street, doorchester. Tell us what's being proposed. So this is obviously a street in doorchester, Noelwell Street. There is a 7,100 square foot vacant lot. Among other vacant lots on the street, my day ad that have been vacant for decades. That looks about your project. In the project. That's right, there are budding lots. It is one parcel in fact that would be two separated into two lots. Each with a two family on it, each two family would have 3,000 square feet of living space. A two bedroom unit on the ground floor and a two level four bedroom unit on the upper two floors. So, are these lots that have been in existence for a long time or did you create these lots? These have been vacant lots for decades. Okay, and so you're proposing two two two family buildings, one with the two bedrooms and the second one with full bedrooms. Correct. And tell us about the parking. So there's physically space for two cars in each driveway for each building, but because they're tandem, it's not counted as two spaces. So I think we show one space legally per unit or per building. It doesn't mean that the folks living above and below couldn't coordinate to have two cars in each driveway. Okay, and tell us about the driveway, was there a problem with the driveway with? So I'm looking at the plans here and it shows that the driveway's look about 9 feet in width. Our architects have found no problem with that. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The dry schedule, are you subdividing the spot? Correct. So the two lots do not exist today. Correct. So what you're asking is to take a 71-hundred square foot block and to break it up into two. I'm looking at the model setback diagram. And one of the major violations that you have is insufficient frontage, so it's 50 feet. So this one's a self-graded issue. That's right. So I was asking before, how long has this law existed, but it's actually been subdivided. It was supposed to be subdivided today. Right. The existing law exists at 7,100 square feet. Correct. And part of this. The reason that there are so many violations again, they're all self-induced. And when I take a look at the street and my July, almost every other building that's there in existence, satisfies the 50 foot frontage. But it... And what are the lot sizes generally? The diagram doesn't show the areas, but it simply shows the frontage along the street. The frontage goes from 100 to 619, 1495, 54, and 70. And this is... This is 30. This is 35. And despite the fact that there is maybe a deviance of average lot width, we believe that the project is very contextual with the street. The average lot size is very, very equivalent, very similar to the other two and three family buildings that are on the street. So after meeting with the community and discussing with them, it was very much agreed that this is a contextual and appropriate project for the street. Like I said, there's several vacant lots on the street, and there was a desire to see some development here. What is the zoning in this district? Three families, 6,000. So, and the original lot size was what? 7,700. So I suppose as of right, we could do one three family and we're trying for two two families. Maybe two two substandard lots with not enough parking is what ultimately happens then. I would just say that's an opinion. The community seems to think that it's a very appropriate amount of parking and housing. We're looking at it in a technical basis. So the next time you appear before us, if you could please go through the zoning violations. Sure. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? One time, Shannon had a report by the Bay of New York Times in New York, Saris. You've been looking closely at the site where you can be directed into a sort of, uh, house, building, and the lack of access issues with, uh, building, and traction. I'm sorry. I'll tell you, Flavio. The majority of the residents, is in support of having a housing building not a lot. There's complaints and grotesque and the trash can leads, uh, on the last day, I want to see how it's going to be. I understand that there is support for having housing built as opposed to having to take them live. But I guess this question is more for you than for Flavio. Um, did you consider the possibility of not self-dividing and simply building within a dwelling department regulations that are existing? We certainly looked at that and deemed it more appropriate and more financially feasible to build two, two families than one, one building with three units. How close is this post project to the T-stop in that area? There's a train about one block. Commuter rail. Commuter rail, yes. So it's a commuter rail and it's not regular rail, but the question still is that the, this relief that the grant goes with the lot, not the owner. Um, and if I, and as, as Mr. Olic said, there is this understanding that yes, construction is better than no construction, but ultimately, you know, what is the impact on the neighborhood? Is anybody here to thank you, Flavio? Is anybody else here to speak in support? Is anybody here in opposition? Okay, may I have a motion, please? Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The project as proposed has been denied. Has been denied? Yes. Calling the 1030 cases, calling B-O-A 580-734-10 Washburn Street. This is replaced existing gable roof with a man-sared style in addition to windows and bedrooms and bathrooms. Violations, Article 65, Section 42. Extension of a non-conditional use is conditional. Article 65, Section 9, minimum side-yard setback requirements is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning. Robin Kernan, owner and architect, 10 Washburn Street, doorchester. Please tell us what's been proposed. We are proposing a side-yard variance from owner occupied two family residents. The house was built in 1890 prior to the current zoning code which requires a five-foot setback. The house is currently non-conforming with a 2.2-foot setback on the left side and 2.8 feet on the right side. The director butter on the left side is a non-buildable parcel that supports parking for a condo building at the rear of our parcel. The parcel on the right side of the residence is an open garden space owned by 14 Washburn. So we have no director butter buildings on either side. Is it a single family or two family? It is a two family. And the occupancy is staying the same. Correct. We are proposing additional living space in the attic as part of the man-sared roof conversion added to the second floor unit which is our owner occupied unit. So how many bedrooms will be in that unit? We will be adding three bedrooms to the man-sared living space. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? We are drawing her out. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Please speak up. Please speak up. Is this? Sorry about that. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support. The proponent did present to the McCormick Civic Association and got a very strong vote of support from them. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council of Frank Baker's office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval of the RAs. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. With that, provides a good luck. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-5-9-4-9-3-7-293-Silver Street. This is directly four stories, single dwelling with garage and roof decks on the vacant land. Violations, article 13, section 13-1, insufficient front yard. Structure is in a public way, quoting, quoting Lee, must obtain discontinuance. Article 13, section 13-1, excessive flow rate ratio. Article 13, section 13-1, insufficient usable open space. Article 13, section 13-1, insufficient lot width. Article 13, section 13-1, insufficient lot size. And Article 13, section 13-1, insufficient radios. Amen, address for you, right? We're the record, please. Bill, thank you. William Fitzmarrows, 301 Silver Street, South Boston. Tim Johnson, architect 190, old Colony Ave, South Boston. A Madam Chair, members of the board. We are proposing a four-story single family dwelling with parking on a vacant, currently two vacant parcels which we're proposing to combine. This will be a four-bedroom, three and a half bath, single family dwelling, approximately 3,400 square feet of living. There will be a Lula elevator servicing all floors. My clients are planning on retiring here. As I mentioned, it will be owned or occupied by Bill and his wife. We did have in a butter's meeting, there were some concerns. In the end, we provided shadow studies for in a butter and we deleted the roof deck. So what's the total square footage of this lot? Total square footage of the slot, Madam Chair, is 1,949 square feet. And this is after the after, it's been combined. Yes, Madam Chair. And so are these plans that we have today, the current plans? They are the ones we've submitted to Mr. Bazzani, are the current plans showing no roof deck? But is that a headhouse? What is that on the top? That is a headhouse which the elevator and stairs are contained in that headhouse. And we're calling it the fourth story. Okay. And there's a two car garage attached to this. Down floor, Madam, yes, there is a two car garage, a gymnasium, a bedroom, and a bathroom. How's the plans, Mr. Bazzani? The Drines are adequate. Tim, with the elimination of the roof deck, the elevator still goes all the way up to the roof. It does, Mr. Bazzani. And is that an anticipation of a future roof deck? Well, in the short term, it will be for a snow removal of the roof and also servicing mechanical system. But if the mood of the neighborhood changes, then yes, sir. It would be. So it's a contingent plan for what was taken away by a remit. Maybe put that. Right. Well, the big, sorry to interrupt. The big cost, of course, is putting in the Lula elevator. And we would like to see it go to the roof. We also have 27 letters of support to submit. Are there any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to unrecord and support the proponent did remove the roof deck, which was a request at the Abutters meeting. And they did also provide the shadow study. And since this is going to be an owner occupied single family, we are on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have some accounts out loud. Michael Flarey. Councilor DeGone, record and support. Hi, Karen Foley from Council. And Lisa is Abby Georgia's office. We gone record as support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster on behalf of Council President Michelle Woolf. Thank you. I'm going record as support. Is anybody here in opposition? Amy Blu in 297 Silver Street. I'm here on behalf of myself. Paul McCool of 297 Silver Street and the residents at 291 Silver Street that direct the butters to the property. So tell us what your opposition is based on. I provided written comments this morning. I have additional comments here. So will you summarize for us? Our concerns, we are, we support the development of the property into residential units or a single family home. Our concern has to do with the building footprint, the size of the building and the height of the building. Currently, we have significant issues with erosion at the rear of the property that haven't been addressed. And we'd like the opportunity to continue to work with the owner of the parcel on the development of it. Okay. So your concern is the size and the issue with the rear yard? Correct. Also the front yard. Silver Street, the one-way street, it's hard to navigate. The plans that I've seen so far, it appears that the building will be built up to the sidewalk. Okay. Thank you. I'm an actor for that, Jim. There have been a number of issues in South Boston relative to the narrowness of the existing sidewalks. And I think the BRA has been pushing to increase the distance from the edge of the property line back in order to make sure that at least that piece of property is ADA compliant. What is the width of the sidewalk? The width of the sidewalk is shy of five feet. It may be four and a half feet, I don't want to misspeak. I know the BRA is requiring five and a half feet. The building is set back six inches, so we will accommodate whatever the BRA feels is required with the sidewalk. And we will work next door with Amy and David. They've been generous in their comments and we will work with them to make sure that they're happy with the project. Any other questions? Are you speaking in support or opposition? Go ahead. John, I'll write from council Bill Lennie and his office. We'd just like to go on record and support. Thank you. You may have a seat. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. BRA design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I know you will make a good faith effort to open your butters. We will. Thank you Madam Chair. Calling BOA57757340 Berkeley Street. This is upgrades including addition of rooftop structure and units on roof. The violations, Article 64, Section 33, screening and buffering. Roof top mechanical equipment must be screened. Article 64, Section 34. Restricted roof structure regulation. Restricted roof structure district. Name and address for the record please. Attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28 State Street, Sweet 802, Boston Mass. To my left is Morgan Pearson, who is the property owner from MVC 40B LLC. To my fire left is David Snell from PCA, who is the architect on the project. The proposal in front of you today is to upgrade the HVAC units and systems for this long existing building, which has been a hostile and lodging use for many years, including the addition of rooftop mechanical structures. This is a much needed upgrade to the building systems and conformity with current technology and guidelines, which requires the two conditional use permits before the board today. They are dealing with a 1950s boiler system at this property with no air conditioning whatsoever, and that is the number one complaint that they get from guests is the lack of temperature control in their rooms. And we believe this will help provide a more economical, comfortable, inefficient hospitality experience. So what makes it difficult to height this HVAC system? David Snell from PCA for the record. Actually, we have been in discussions with the landmarks group, and we have actually worked to pull this system as far out of visibility as possible. It is actually not visible from any of the direct adjacent streets. It is only visible from a couple blocks away once you cross over Trimond Street. And even then, there are large trees in front of the property that primarily screened during the summer months. That said, we have also brought up the topic of screening the units with landmarks, and they would prefer us not screen, because they believe that by adding a screen, it makes the new things seem larger. It makes it appear larger, in their opinion. And we have also brought up the topic of screening the units with landmarks. We can speak and support of this proposal. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? This is south and landmots. Correct. Second. Those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. In next three cases, calling BOA 610-876-30-Pilgrim Road. There are two companion cases. Is Pilgrim Road here? There are two companion cases, calling BOA 610-875-321-Brickline-Avenue. And calling BOA 610-877-291-Brickline-Avenue. This is for 30-Pilgrim Road, Dicks Hall, Dormitory, 30-Pilgrim Road Structure, underwent major renovations in 1999, which included complete infrastructure, exterior and interior upgrades. The existence certificate of occupancy for this property identifies pre-1999 as 126 persons. The owner seeks to record the occupancy to include 132 persons in an existing condition with no work to be performed. This is for 321-Brickline-Avenue. The South Hall Dormitory 321-Brickline-Avenue Structure, one major renovations in 1990, which included complete infrastructure and exterior. The Dormitory occupancy was 91 persons. The owner seeks to record the occupancy to include 105 persons, existing condition used with no work to be performed. This is for 291-Brickline-Avenue. Messy-Called Dormitory, 291-Brickline-Avenue, underwent renovations in 2010, which included new windows, surface finishes and bathroom upgrades. The occupancy was 121 persons. The actual occupancy is 134 persons. The owner seeks to record the occupancy in relief of 134 persons. The problem is the humming Knowing's two central tulevecy, 277-17, AC1-182029. that this seeks to legalize. For South Hall, it's basically we are asking for, let me see, 11 bed in concrete. Would you put your name and address on the record, please? Sure, my name is Rich Stewart, and I'm with Simmons College buildings and grounds. Okay. So it looks like it is 20, so it looks like it's a 33 room increase. Between the three buildings. Between the three buildings. 33 students. The rooms are all single or double occupancy. And is this project subject to an institutional master plan? There is a project. I understand, but is Simmons subject to an institutional master plan? We do have an institutional master plan. And this is included in the IMP? The IMP numbers that we last have. I would suspect that it's not included, otherwise you wouldn't be here. Yeah, that's the, yeah. It's not called out in our institutional master plan. The numbers that we have in our IMP are above the stated occupancy that the IMP is on record. Jeff, this is in reference to Simmons request to increase the dormitory count from by 33 units, by 33 dorm rooms. Is this included? No, it's students. This is strictly occupancy. No, so this one does not need an amendment. No, as far as I know it's not licensing issue, the existing condition is not ready, so this is something. Okay. Okay. All the plans Mr. Bazzani. Drawings are out of it. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. On behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Walker, electricians, local 103. Whereas there is no work here being done. Presently Simmons College has been a long time supporter of local 103 members, as well as the other building trades. I would like to say thank you for supporting this project. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, I'm Mr. Restorfer. I'm Dr. Energy, and I'd like to go on record and support the students. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I'll have to wrap it over there for a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, or else that? Thank you. Calling BOA 612-443-1 Legends Way. This is to upgrade the North Wall of the TD Garden by utilizing the existing building lighting, replacing the existing static billboard with a digital display and adding a high resolution LED display at the east end of the facade. All three of these elements would be tied together with architectural wash lighting. The Violation Medical 11, Section 7, electronic science are forbidden. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, David SUNY, I'm the lawyer from McCormick SUNY for the Delaware North. Point, like a McCormick, with Mr. SUNY from the comic book, SUNY. Please do. Is there anybody else be speaking? I'm John Rothenberg from So So Limited. We're one of the design consultants on the project. Just to let you know, that's an active door, so be careful. Will you please tell us what's being proposed? Thank you. Tell us what's being proposed, please. I'm sorry. Tell us what's being proposed, please. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. We are proposing to erect, to take down the existing static commercial billboard sign that is on the north wall of the Boston Garden and to replace it with a much smaller commercial sign of approximately 1200 square feet, as well as approximately 3000 square foot electronic sign that will be an on-premises sign to be of public service. This is a years-long process between Delaware North and the city administration, as well as this BRA, to basically come to an agreement for something that we all think makes sense, and that we're very excited to propose to the board today. So the electronic billboard will be smaller than the existing one? Yes. So what we have, this shows what's going to be there, but what is there now is the board's probably familiar with this. There's a much larger 5,000 square foot static billboard right about this location. 5,000 or 3,000. It's going to be 3,000. What is there now is 5,000? Thank you. Yes. So a 5,000 square foot static billboard is existing. There's also the TD Garden sign here on the corner of the north wall. And what we are proposing to do is to erect a 1200 square foot high resolution LED board for commercial messaging, which will essentially replace the 5,000 square foot commercial static billboard, which is commercial messaging right now. So we're looking at approximately 75% reduction in size. And then, as I mentioned, after much communication with the BRA and the administration literally over a period of four years, the city has requested that in our proposal that we're bringing to you today, that we actually integrate a second board, which is considered an on-premises board that will be of public service messaging. It will also indicate as this renter who goes here what's happening inside the garden. It will be the first time that as you come down 93 that you'll actually be able to find out what's happening, what the score is, that type of thing. Again, we'll also be able to run public service messages here and even citywide events. So the technical violation is Article 7, Section 7, which prevents electronic billboards. Do you have a question? No, we just want to go ahead. So the technical violation is of electronic billboards. We need to get a variance. And if you actually look at the standard set forth in Article 11, Section 7, we have met many of the factors that go into the granting of a conditional permit. So the other point. So this is really a two-part appeal. One is the replacement of the static billboard with an electronic billboard plus the addition of the other. Yes. Okay. Yes. In total, it's 4200 square feet of billboard. And just to clarify, we are bringing the commercial component of this down from 5,000 square feet, which is the existing billboard. Right down to the 12,000 square foot. The second sign, which is approximately 3,000 square feet of electronic display, was something that was suggested by the city. It was viewed as a great way to serve as a gateway. I think as the board is probably aware, Article 39, which creates the North Station Economic Development Area, has a long preamble that describes what the drafters of the zoning ordinance intended when this North Station EDA was formed. So tell us about the looms and the brightness of that sign. All controllable and within existing regulations. Okay. Okay. And how are the planets, Mr. Pazani? Drines are adequate. The most compelling part is really the elevations. The messaging on the 3,000 square foot electronic board, in fact, is not messaging. I mean, I'm trying to distinguish why one is called commercial and the other is not when they're both giving messages. And one message is the commercial use of the garden and what's going on with the garden at that particular time. Yes. The left board is 1200 square feet of commercial. And what is that? That will be for more traditional advertising. For advertising. Is any of it in fall within the public realm that is announcing what the city boss in the zone or? So our plan is to, the BRA would like to enter into a licensing agreement, assuming the board approves. That will hash out the details. So we would like to defer that to that portion of the process. But right now the intention would be to have this be commercial and have this be another type of message. Yes. When there is not something going on in the garden, you said that there are a public service announcement. What kind of messages do you anticipate? Anything and everything that would be relevant to someone coming down 93 by rail or by car, tall ships. Or, you know, matters of urgency and emergency in the city or that type of thing. Anything that we know to people in the city. Jeff, the BRA's position, this game, this is the bill's game, this is the proposal. Yes, we're like the BRA is in strong support of this. Our only advisor that we would like have right into the record is that they do enter into a licensing agreement with the BRA. How long has the tone of both score? About the quality? I think it's eight years. Okay. And I assume all of the other regulations about how long the image is on and hours is in the court, but federal and guidelines. Yes. Yes. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Maria Lanz, a mayor's office in the neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support of this pre-existing billboard conversion. Thank you. Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'd like to speak in strong support. I don't think a day has gone by since the Boston Garden. The original Boston Garden or the new Boston Garden has been opened that there hasn't been a member of our local union working in that building, including up to a full, full time maintenance electricians. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Jay Walsh, on behalf of the Downtown North Association, would like to be recorded in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, may I have a question for the board? Thank you. If anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Kate Bell on behalf of City Councilor Josh Zaykhan. This project is located in Council District 8, but at no point during the preparation of this project, do the applicants come in to meet with the Councillor? We're requesting and hoping that the applicants will defer until they're able to come and sit down and meet with the Councillor, as well as present the project to the West End Civic Association. But if they decide not to defer, then we're going to have to oppose. Thank you. Kate, may I have a motion, please? I'm motion to approve the process that the approval is presented on my succincts. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. And I know you'll be a good constituent and meet with the City Councilor and the neighbourhood. Yes, I'm chairman. I didn't realize this was district. Okay. Now it's on the record and you know what you do. I will thank you. Thank you. We will take a five minute break. So the tape and the electronic systems can be updated. We will. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning ladies and gentlemen of the board. I'm sorry. I just put them away for a minute. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are you proposing any telecommunications equipment up there? What is this thing right here? The red and that is what is existing and the overlay is proposed. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of neighborhood services, on behalf of Jacob Wessel, we would like to speak in support of this project. After a long article 80 process with numerous public meetings, significant changes have been made to this proposal. We acknowledge that there are neighbors with a variety of concerns about certain aspects of the project. The program stands now, will redevelop the building to residential use, with reduced impact on Beacon Hill and the budding neighbors on Temple Street. We would like to state that this is a unique redevelopment of the largest building in Beacon Hill and it should create no precedent for allowing height on any other property in Beacon Hill. The building includes a .7 parking ratio, the minimum number allowable by zoning, which emphasizes the desire to minimize traffic impacts on Temple Street as expressed by neighbors. The pass through from Temple Street to Ridgeway Lane will be level to allow for pedestrian access and the building will still be under review by the Beacon Hill Architectural Commission, which will review materials and architectural design as viewable from a public right away. Thank you. We could ask one question. What is the total number of affordables? It's okay, John. We're asking that of the applicants. So we are addressing the inclusionary development plan in a few different ways. We are in the process of purchasing two separate buildings on Hancock Street and converting those to long-term affordable rentals. And we also be paying into the inclusionary development fund. What is the number? The number of units we are looking at right now is for 40 SROs on Hancock Street, 40 units. Is that allowable? Yes. Chris Tracy, BRA Senior Project Manager. We did a financial analysis and our staff concluded that this was an existing use on Temple Street and an existing SRO. We are bored approved the 40 units on Hancock Street with the associated by it. But how does that, that doesn't increase the pool if it's already an existing SRO? The SRO is expiring actually. I understand, but it's on the books as an SRO in terms of number of units. And so you're exchanging the same SROs. So they are providing in fact no new affordables other than the purchase of an existing SRO built, is that correct? The affordability of those units is expiring so they would no longer be affordable. So we are putting- Being expiring. Get the restrictions put on place the units currently will be lifted. So if I may, David Raftry is the SRO right now as an existing market rented SRO and our attention would be to de-restrict those to the affordability requirement as set forth by the BIR under the IDP for a period which we believe to be incorrect me if I'm wrong for 50 years. So there's no restriction on those units right now. For the deed we will put that restriction in. I can read the section of our board memo into the record if you'd like. And how many off sites are you anticipating? Those are the off site units. Okay. And so there's also going- there's also some money going into the pool. Yes, and that will be determined by the market value of the property once sold. Chris, you spoke in- Could you speak yet? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Chris Tracy, senior project manager at the Boston Read Development Authority. The Boston Read Development Authority wishes to go in support of this proposal. On July 14th, the BIRA board approved this project after three rounds of article 80 process. A few key points that went into that decision making are- Over the years, Suffolk University utilized this building for a variety of its needs including a classroom, administrative space, theater, and the main cafeteria of a student body of over 10 years. As we understood it, there were omnipresent grievances from the Beacon Hill community related to the non-conforming institutional university use of the building. A few other key points. What you're- what before you today is 71 residential condominium units down from 75 in the original filing of which the proponent has added more family sized units of three and four bedrooms based directly on community feedback. Now a total of 50 parking spaces down from 60 in the original filing. Again, a response to community feedback. A redesigned penthouse that has a height reduced by 20 feet from the original filing. The revised penthouse floors do not exceed the height of the tallest mechanicals on the existing roof. The penthouse floor is also enclosed all rooftop mechanicals which are now scattered across the existing roof. And important to note that the floor area ratio of these revised plans will actually decrease from the existing building. Also, another positive that BRA staff viewed was that the IDP units will be done on Beacon Hill on Hancock Street. Less pertinent than the height and car issues was a desire to keep affordable units on Beacon Hill. So we viewed that as a positive. In addition, the proponent will be contributing $50,000 to work with city officials on maintaining the pedestrian safety feel and experience on Temple Street. This was the direct result of a petition received and discussed extensively as a staff at the BRA. The proponent will also be contributing $10,000 to the neighborhood preservation and beautification fund administered by the Beacon Hill Civic Association. We're joined today by some folks in the community who do not look favorably upon the proposal. But we would like to say that as we move through the article 80 process of three plus months, we felt that the tone and the atmosphere of the room significantly improved each round. And we asked the proponent if any further revisions could be made after our June 21st final meeting. Given the economic realities of keeping the project feasible and viable, they said they could not. And given the tangible revisions that were already made, we approved the project on July 14th. We would like to note that, and dealing with reuses of existing buildings at the BRA, it is extremely costly for the proponent to bring these up to building codes. And if approved today, BRA hopes that the proponent will continue to work with the community as they move forward. Thank you. The East Madam Chair and members of the board, once again, Gary Walker, electricians local one on three, like the speaking strong support. The developer has contracted with considerably construction to build this project. They are committed to using the men and women of the Bolton trades, which means the men and women that build this project will earn decent wages, good health insurance, as well as every time it benefits. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The university, the school that now exists there. And it was the students and the traffic and the noise that was detriment to that area. That's all going away now. It's the architecture is being changed. Thank you. From something that's okay, because something new. I think this is a real goal for the university. Thank you very much. Can we move on to the next person in support? Thank you. My name is William Richards. I'm a resident of a long time resident of Beacon Hill. I live on Charles Street on the corner of Charles and Pickney here in support of this project. I think it could only be a positive for Beacon Hill. I love the Beacon Hill neighborhood. I'm also a graduate of Suffolk University Law School, the old law school where these buildings are. So I'm familiar with the buildings, I'm familiar with the street, I'm familiar with the project. I think this could only be an excellent, this is an excellent conversion for these buildings. My one thing is I wish, I understand there are 50 parking spaces. I do wish there was more parking because anyone who lives in Beacon Hill can tell you that, you know, more parking is never a bad thing. But other than that, I think it's a great conversion for this property. I'm in support of it and I also encourage my other friends and neighbors in Beacon Hill to support it as well. Thank you. Okay, it looks like everybody else might be in here in opposition. So let's see how we can do this. Why don't we, if, do you have a sheet of paper, that we can, a pad of paper, we can circulate so we can get everybody's name and address on the record? No, no. Okay, so this, this will be going around the room and it will be made part of the record. If I can have, in it, first I would like to hear from representatives of elected officials and then I would like to hear from five or six people from the community. And please, again, as I had asked before, you, you, you provide us with new information. Okay, so first let me get a show of hands, who's here in opposition? Okay, thank you. So make sure all of you put your name and address on that pad of paper that's circulating. And the six people who will be speaking to represent the neighborhood, please line up at the podium. So, representatives of elected officials, please tell us, your name and address on the record? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Ulrich from Consulate Bill Linnahein's office. The Consulate feels that there are outstanding issues and concerns of the neighbors that haven't been addressed. We've recommended that they ask for a deferral. They've decided to go forward. So at this time we have to go on record in opposition. I'm Jay Livingstone on the State Representative for Beacon Hill. I, for almost all of Beacon Hill, represent across the street from this precinct, I'm also a resident of Beacon Hill. I live at Riviera Garden Street and I'm a former board member of the Beacon Hill Civic Association. And it's, in my experience in Beacon Hill, it's unprecedented. This is one of the largest buildings, not the largest building on Beacon Hill, and it's unprecedented to exceed the height limitations that are set for the Beacon Hill. So I pose it on the basis of height. Okay. So this is a pedestrian wet. This has been a pedestrian way since the early 1970s when Governor DeCocke has declared it such. And it has been shut down for street traffic much of the time. The city of Boston for years put it a barrier to prevent cars from driving down it and having this amount of parking on what is a pedestrian way. I think it's inconsistent in Chimila. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster on behalf of the City Council President Michelle Will. We'd like to echo the comments of the District Council and the State Representative and go and replicate our opposition. Okay. Okay. Anybody else representing elected officials? Madam Chair, members of board, Patrick Lyons on behalf of State Representative Aaron Mike Woods. The proponent has done a great job working with the community so far. They've made some concessions. But we believe there's still room to work with the community a little bit more. So we request a deferral at the time. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Karen Foley representing Councilor Nisra Savi George's office and we oppose this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kate Bell on behalf of the Councilor Zaykum. We'd like to go on record an opposition of this project based on the height variance and the precedent that it could set for the Beacon Hood neighborhood as a whole. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Luz Villar from Councilor Presley's office. We'd like to go on record an opposition of the project. Thank you. Okay. Can I have the representatives from Beacon Hill? And please so far, I've heard about height. I've heard about the pedestrian way and the interference. What are your, after you've put your name and address in the record, please put the concerns, list the concerns for me. Sure. I'm Robert Whitney. I'm a resident of Beacon Hill. I was a member of the Impact Advisory Group, together by the BRA for this particular project. I'm here actually representing almost all of the members of that group in opposition to the particular project that the proponent is not entitled to the variances that they're seeking from the code on three basis with respect to the height. At least the FAR and the parking issues with respect to height. They are seeking to add one additional floor to the Archer building, which is an historic building on Beacon Hill built in 1920, Hornstone laid by Calvin Coolidge. They seek to add two additional floor penthouse floors to the Donnie you building. The current height now is 81.75 feet, which is 16.75 feet higher than allowed in the district under the code. They propose to have 95 feet, which is 46 percent above the 65 feet allowable for Beacon Hill. They have put forth no justification to make the additional other than in order to make additional money on this particular project. Under the variance rules, under the standards set forth in the shepherd, the ZBA, Austin case. They have not as, that is not the minimum variance that they seek that would be necessary to allow the reasonable use of this property. Not only that, it would intensify in existing non-conformity that is add additional height to a building that already exceeds the allowable height for Beacon Hill with respect to the FAR. Again, the building FAR is currently 6.11. Although they do propose the actual number will be around six. Of course, they are adding two additional floors. They're doing some moving stuff around inside to remove that. But the issue is they're still adding additional height and additional FAR above the minimum the maximum required for the hill. Again, no variance has been justified in this circumstance. This is not the minimum additional change in FAR. That would be reasonable for use of this building. The building is already six. I think it is the largest building within the Beacon Hill historic district. This will only intensify in existing non-conformity of the violation of the code, which is not the appropriate standard for granting a variance. Finally, with respect to parking. One of the issues that hasn't been fully addressed here is with respect to the proposal for 54 cars. One of the major impacts of the additional cars on Beacon Hill, other than on its been mentioned on the street on Temple Street, will the impact on the utilization of the usable open space? The proponent is also seeking a variance from the open space requirements. They've argued that the existing property lines of the property do not allow for reasonable open space. And they actually say that, well, that we do have this additional space with a so-called Donnie Uallee, which will help us with our open space use. However, they plan on using the Donnie Uallee for accessing the garage space. By having this excessive number of cars backing up onto the Donnie Uallee and on the Temple Street, this will interfere and adversely impact the usable open space as required under the Boston zoning code. And therefore, no variance should be allowed with respect to the usable open space requirement as well. Thank you very much. So, so far I've heard height, the interference with the pedestrian way, FAR, parking, open space. Do you have some more information to add? Not exactly new. I'm Keeta Gilmore. I'm with the Beacon Hill Civic Association. I just want to add our opposition to this project. However, we do support the change of use to residential use on Beacon Hill. However, the height, we do not support the additional height. The bulk that it adds to this building, this is, as you heard, one of the largest buildings on Beacon Hill. The addition of this two floors on the top of this building will obstruct people's views. And certainly, the most precious commodity is light to a lot of the gardens and balconies and people's view on Beacon Hill, which is very precious. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Janet Maloof. I live at 36 Hancock Street and I represent approximately 40 residents of that building, including six young children under the age of five. Who are less than eight feet from this development. One of my disappointments was that while the Temple Street residents were focused upon during the process that the individuals who live on Hancock Street, we never really were given an opportunity to express our concerns. And we found out for the first time when Mr. Tracy gave his presentation to the BRA about the affordable housing units. That was disingenuous to say that there was an open process. Please just please help us focus on what your issues are. Yes, Madam, I'm just telling you who I am representing here. Noise and interference with everyday life. We have had a project, a similar project, a few feet away, basically across the alley that's been going on for over two years and is incomplete. It's also luxury condos, not family units. There's a small handful of family units in this building. It's a very important project for the public looking for real family residential use, which this is not. That has created unbearable noise most every day for the last two years. And prior to that was the project that was a public, they dug up streets. And daily basis, this project is going to be years of more intensive noise and construction on the street, not to mention the fact that these there are children nearby. And there's an extensive amount of asbestos and lead in the building, which actually from what I've heard over the course of these many meetings, I do not feel confident that this developer appreciates the ramifications of that. I also wanted to say about the affordable units that there has been no restriction. We, on Beacon Hill, we usually work with owners, not developers. He's going to be selling the units and many of the issues that were expressed will not be this man's responsibility. We'll be dealing with a condo association if there's conking of cars. I mean, one of the things that was also said to us was that people wouldn't use their cars. This was absurd. Someone who spends five million for a unit. Yes, ma'am. I just want the issues. I don't know editorial comments. I just want you to identify the issues because so far I've heard about the noise. I've heard your concerns about demolition. So please, if they're just highlight for me the bridgeway lane, which is not supposed to be used as a direct access from Dernstreet to Cambridge Street. People are going to figure that out and run their cars down Dernstreet. So you're concerned about that? Which is another, well, it is used, but it's also a residential area where there are children, where there needs to be safety and concern. And I believe that I have covered the issues. One more thing. The general came from neighborhood services. His office told me they were going to come in opposition. And Jacob Wessel is our representative. I believe he's on bereavement. So I am totally shocked that he came and spoken support because we have not communicated or been communicated that information at all. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Hi. My name is Charles Brown. I live on Hancock Street. My property, the outside of my property is on Ridgeway Lane. What's the address please on Hancock? 13 Hancock Street. Okay. And I actually, I've got a number of concerns. I'm trying to be as concise and you can certainly help me guide me. So let me tell you what I've heard already. If there's more information to add, please feel free to add that. I'm just going to first show you the view of the, of the, of the, I'm sorry, the Donnie who building from my property. What I'm basically, one of the things the big concerns I have is taking an ugliest tallest building in Beacon Hill and making it taller. When it's already 18 feet over or 17 feet over the limitation. So my views are going to be affected, obviously. I'm against the unloading and I mean, I'm not, I'm going to try and not be redundant. I'm against a number of things. But I'm, I'm opposed to any parking that needs necessitates loading and loading outside of the building. Huge disruption there. I'm nervous about commercial delivery that goes down Ridgeway Lane. How are they in impact that? And I'll just keep it brief with that. The one thing I will say as long as we're, the cover, it's been, the cut, the topic's been covered is that we have a list going around with the concerns. We counted up all the comment letters that were sent into the VRA 98% of them were in opposition. Including the revision, the small revision revised proposal that was sent in second. Okay, thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, George Gilpatrick, 15 Templestreet, 15 Ridgeway Lane. We're neighbors directly to this. To a point of clarity so that the board knows most of an overwhelming majority of the neighbors support the overall mission of the development, I would say. But we're here for the, some of these specific issues are what are being opposed. Okay, so thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Shelley Kulasar, I live at 36 Templestreet, apartment number one directly across from the parking entrance and exit of the proposed building. I'm here in opposition of the parking, the number of parking even though the parking has been reduced. Still the number of cars are is extreme for that street because it has no parking on it right now. It's one way and it has speed bumps and so it's a place for children to play. My child included who currently goes to Boston Public School. I am here to say that because the cars are going in and out of the same exit and entrance, the cars are inevitably going to be backed up on the street where there's no reprieve, there's going to be cars backed up on that street reversing and it's going to end up being a hazard for the people that are using that street as a pedestrian walkway. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Now to the team at the table, please do you have any more information to add? Please put your name and address on the record then. Edward Acquorth, the resident for eight years of 17 Ridgeway Lane in 19 Templestreet, also an appointed member of the IAG committee and the B.K. N.L. Civic Association committee as well. There's two points. Number one is the height. I oppose as I think most of the majority of the neighbors do, the additional height, although we are generally positive terms of project. My question is why is the standard precedent for the height of the building set as the height of the additional mechanicals on top of the building? What I'm sure you're saying is that those who are added outside of code by Suffolk when they're exempt from the historic regulations. So my question is why is that the precedent for height at the top of the existing added on mechanicals and not the actual height of the deck at the top of the building itself? One of two is I would like to remind the board that Temple Street was dedicated in 1972 by Governor DuCoccus as a pedestrian way on the hill. And the residents really do wish to preserve the character of the pedestrian nature of the way and adding any number of cars above what was zero for that building will negatively impact the historic pedestrian nature of that way. Thank you. Thank you. So for the team at the table, there are a number of issues that you did address before, but there are some that are outstanding that were raised by the testimony. First, if you could address the loading and unloading issue. Second, if you could talk about the demolition and the demolition process and what systems you will have in place. And finally, the issue that was raised about the pedestrian way and the conflict with parking. If I may, Madam Chairman, Sean O'Donovan, thank you very much. One of the most recent changes that was made by Walker Parking, one of the vendors dealing with parking situation in conjunction with after meeting with some of the Beacon Hill folks who just testified. We moved the interior of the parking garage downstairs in such a way to allow unloading and loading within the building. That was something that was important to the neighbors. We went back, took us about two weeks, architects worked with Walker and were able to maneuver the downstairs walls and move the stackers around so that there will be no slamming of doors. Initially, we had a ramp that was going into the basement of this particular building and it was the Beacon Hill Civic Association that told us to change it to an elevator system. We also have a full-time valet that is going to be on site 24-7 along with a full-time concierge. So it's going to be full-time people. When this project is done, we expect it to be 15 to 20 full-time jobs. Obviously, that doesn't include 150 organized labor jobs that will be involved with the construction to build this building. Concivally construction along with EBI consulting will be handling all the remediation of the building. I know that was discussed, I think there was part of your question. So we have an expert team of professionals who are ready willing to enable and who are contracted to deal with that. I don't think there's anybody sitting at this table that could really explain to you the inner workings of the remediation of environmentally contaminated products. But I certainly will tell you that Concivally construction is well versed in this along with the rest of our team. The last thing I think your question was about Temple Street. Temple Street is a public way in the city of Boston. There was an effort between Suffolk University and the city of Boston to, as you know, the state house is right above it as well. So there's a fair amount of activity that goes down Dernstreet from Bowen in Somerset. And there was a long-standing issues and problems between Suffolk University and the neighbors of Temple Street. Suffolk University along with the city of Boston began to put up some, they put up some makeshift horses at the top of Temple at Dern, usually at rush hour. So when people will leave in the city of Boston or that state house they wouldn't come down Temple Street. That is something that I would submit that the Boston Transportation Department never endorsed. There was nothing on the books with the Boston Transportation Department that that is an iron clad rule here in the city of Boston that is to be blocked off. It was to alleviate and prevent cutthroat on that street. We remember the Boston Transportation Department on this project on numerous occasions. And their position was to have one parking spot per unit. When we started off this project with 75 units and we had 60 parking spots, I'm not going to speak for them. But I think they thought that there was not a solid number of parking spots after months and months of meetings. We're now down to 71 units in 50 parking spots, not 54. We've reduced up to 54 after discussing this with the mayor's office and Councillor Lennon's office. We've done everything we possibly can to make this project move forward. This is a project that when Bill will bring $2 million of annual taxes to the city of Boston, it is creating a family home ownership finally to a location that has been troubled for over 40 years. Okay, thank you. Now before we move to make to with our motion and everything else, I will request please that once we're done, if you could leave the room quietly, we have, as you can see, a number of cases after this. And so we'd like to make sure that the applicant who's after you will be heard clearly. Madam, you want to put your comment on the record please? And then we will move to a motion. Thank you. Hello, I'm Jane Kelly, KELLEY. I live at 15 Temple Street and I want to make a clarify the illusion to community support that Mr. Tracey mentioned when he said, the tone of the room at the third hearing seemed to be more accepting. That is not true, number one. Madam, just what I would like to hear is just the issues with the merits and the violations that have been created by this proposal. Thank you, Madam Chair. So if you can limit it to that. Is not community support or opposition something that I might clarify? As I said before, community and VRA recommendations are advisory to us. That's why when we ask for testimony, we ask you to identify the issues so we understand. Yes. But community support and the VRA's recommendation, everything is advisory and has always been that way. Okay? So my last sentence then is that to repeat what Mr. Brown said, 98% of the comment letters were against the project. And not submitted to the VRA board was a petition gathered in three days during rush hours of 650 signatures of people who wish to keep Temple Street a pedestrian way. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, now we've heard testimony from everybody. We've understood what the process is. May I have a motion? Motion to grant the related questions to VRA design. Second. I don't think the VRA, it's the Beacon Health Architectural Commission. Sorry, I got it. Okay. And that, okay, and that there be no building code relief? Okay. So it's approval would be approval. Okay. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed because of the height. Okay. Motion carries. So that is our decision. Thank you. Please, the next case. Calling BLA, 607, 626, 6-Lampson courts. This is to construct a new detached private 25 foot by 21 foot, 6 garage using concrete for the use of 418 summer street. There's already a legal curb cutter that already exists. The violation, Article 10, Section 1, limitation in the area of accessory uses. Article 53, Section 9, usable, open spaces insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, Rhead maximum, occupancy by accessory buildings. Article 53, Section 53-57. Accessory buildings in Rhead. Name and address for the record, please. I'm Carla from RJ Ferra Engineering Office, 80, Maltese Avenue, Stonem. I try to be brief because I know you have a big agenda to follow. Yes, so please explain to us what is being proposed. What is the building on the lot? Okay. This is the lot where the house is and this is the Laughland, the garage used. That was the previous garage, which is almost in the last day of the session. I'm sorry, what's the address for the house? The address of the house is 416-418 summer street. Okay. So the house is on summer street and the garage at the backyard, which is from Lamson Court. Okay, so it's on a separate lot. Yes. It is. Okay. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed then. What's being proposed? The existing condition that we have. You see that this is Lamson Court. This is where the authorizes. So all that is coming down and then will be a new garage built. And if you can see from the pictures, it could be a significant improvement from Lamson Street to what looks now. And we believe our next door neighbor will also improve his property. So tell us about the garage. How big is the old garage? The old garage is about one third the size of the proposed one. So this is, and how many cars will be in this garage? There will be two cars in the garage. Two car garage? And this will be for use at 418 Summness Street. So this is really ancillary parking and not accessory parking. Correct. So there will be less street parking. This will make street parking better. How long has the plans missed the presiding? The drawings are adequate. On the site previously there was an existing shed which is maybe a quarter of the size of the proposed. What's being proposed is a garage 21 to be 21 and a half beat by 25. And it's a two car garage and the main level is there a deck on top of the garage. That would be a deck on top of the garage as you see in the picture here. This is the backyard of the house and that would be the, the one with the garage. So the question is whether or not the deck was advertised as a package right now. You know the problem I'm having is that in fact if it's two lots, you're not proposing to combine the lots are you? I don't have that condition from the owner. But it's being used by the same owner all this time. It doesn't matter about the ownership the thing that we know is that the, the, the relief goes with the land. Yes. So you know he could sell either one tomorrow and it's there with the land. So we just want to make sure that it's actually usable and workable plan. Well I don't know anybody buying this house in the future would like to have it without the garage. Or anybody who wants to have just the garage can use it for anything else. This designer with the shed on this side is what's there now? This is, this is take this was this picture was taken about six months ago. But I visited yesterday the site and I saw that the whole structure has come down. Whether it was naturally or intentionally I have no record of that one. The shed appears to have been about ten foot by eight foot. And what it's going in its place is a garage 21 and a half feet by 25. How large is that log? Is it possibly built a boat? I don't, uh, 25. I don't think it's buildable. It could be. No. So kind of. Well regarding from anybody. It was given a 21 foot width. 25 foot depth. A very creative person could. With a one family. How are the plans? The drawings are adequate for the brach. Question really is whether the garage has the deck on either the deck is before us. And because there are two separate lots the access to the deck is on the other lot. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, the board, the mayor's office and the member's office. We would like to go on record and support. They presented to the Jeffries Point neighborhood association also the planning and zoning committee. And during the about as meetings there was actually strong support for a couple of residents from Lampson Court and Sumner Street. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Michael Sonatra from Council, Lamatine is office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval with the provisor the lot be combined. Did you hear that? Yes. All those in favor? Aye. Any other? Also as a BRA design for you. Motion is for approval with the R.A. design review and that the lots be combined. It's been seconded all in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. With those provisos. Calling DOA. 596-775-158 Lexington Street. Pay the existing three family remove remove the roof on the third floor unit to increase the living space to match the floor below. There will be a new three story addition to the left side of the building along with new decks off to the ramp. Violation is article 53 section 9. Radio step back is insufficient. Article 53 section 9. Floor 8 ratio is excessive. Article 53 section 9. Side yacht is insufficient. Article 53 section 52. Roost structure. Restructions. Name and address for the record please. Good morning. I'm Madam Chair. Members of the Board. My name is George Moranci. I'm the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members. First I just want to describe the project. I think that the project description and the refusal letter is a bit confusing. This is an existing three family dwelling at 158 Lexington Street in East Boston. The zoning district is 3F 2000. The existing conditions are there are units on the first and second floors. There are two bedrooms each approximately 1100 square feet. There is a partial third floor of this building in the front that has a one bedroom unit that's approximately 570 square feet. The proposal is to add a addition in the rear at the third floor level to essentially square off the building. At third floor the addition would be approximately 24 feet deep by 20 feet wide. It would come again at the rear of the building. The front of the building would not change as it appears to the street. And so what would be the size of that third unit? The third unit which is now very small for one bedroom at 570 square feet would grow to approximately 1100 square feet. There are also a notch area on the left side of the building at the first and second floors. There would also be filled in about 150 square feet of space. Again, there would square off the left side of the building adding a little bit more room to the first and second floor units. There would also be a new rear porch measuring approximately 20 feet in width, which is the width of the building by 8 feet into the rear yard on each floor. And that would be aside from some usable open space with the small porches that would be a new rear egress system. The current building actually has somewhat of an inadequate secondary means of egress from the units. It should become the notch on the front at the second and third floors to be filled in. It's essentially being squared off Mr. Bazzani if you look at she's eX1 and it's to the rear. I'm looking at a1. A1, the second floor plan is proposed. So the second floor, no, not the notch in the front. Yeah, it's on the existing plans. There's a small notch out in the rear. That left building wall is going to be extended back. The result of all this madam chair in terms of the building would be, would create a rear yard setback violation only to this secondary egress system in rear porch. The FAR would increase from a current 1.1 to 1.42. There's a side-eI violation on the right side only. And is there a roof deck going in? No, roof deck. This is cited for roof structure restrictions. I believe I don't agree with the interpretation that extending a roof line triggers roof structure restrictions violation. But that's what the citation is for simply by simply due to the fact that the roof is being extended over the extended third floor. Mr. Bazzani, how are the plans? Drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, glad to hear from the Mayor of San Jose of Labor who services. We would like to learn record and support during the about as many as there was no opposition. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Michael Sonatra from Council of Lamentine's Office. We'd like to go on record and support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Motion for approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Before I call the last case on the rediscussions, are there any deferral withdrawal for the rediscussions? Miles? Address please. 33-39 Ward Street in South Boston. For the record calling, BOA 526603, 33-39 Ward Street. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Nile Sutvin. My address is 197-8th Street in Charlestown. This is an article 80 project which is requiring, I would say, an abnormal number of... of neighborhood meetings as well as meetings with other institutions. I would like to request that the furl of the board and ask the board if it would be possible and trying to anticipate a reasonable schedule here to go before the BRA Board of Directors. I'd like to ask the board if we could schedule a final zoning meeting with you sometime in a really December of the year. And December? Yes. Okay. May I have a motion please? Motion to deferral. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? The date please, Ms. Portid? No, the date of December 6th. Thank you. Are there any other withdrawals or deferrals for the 1130 rediscussions? Hearing none, I call the last case of the 1030 calling BOA 598388 1066 Bennington Street. This is to add a new finish basement, also a bathroom in two rooms, one stair from the first floor to the basement level, the violation of the article 53 Section 9. Floating air ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Bennington Street is posting, Ileg Jimenez, architect. My name is Raoul San Clemente, I the owner propiate. Jasmine San Clemente, 1066 Bennington Street, daughter of the owner. Tell us what you're proposing. We would like to add new square footage to the first floor. This house is right in front of Ori and Hyde's train station, blue line, so at some point Raoul, Ileg Jimenez. Is the occupancy at three families? Yes, it is. Three separate units. Yes, it is. Tell us about the basement, what's being proposed for the basement? In two bedrooms, one bathroom, laundry area, and also, and that's it. Okay. Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms, yes. And tell us what the floor to ceiling height is in the basement? We have a ceiling height of 810. It's really height. And this picture shows you how high it is. This is Raoul standing in his arm. And it's really height. It's not, it's very unique, I would say. Okay. And there is, so this would be an extension of the first unit into the basement. And how many bedrooms would that first unit have altogether? Just the two in the basement, there's not going to be anything on the first floor. Oh, there are two in the first floor. Two bedrooms. And basement, two. Where is the stair that connects the first floor unit only to the basement? Not having to go through another space. Where is that? In location of the front stair on the need. We're using the problem with that is that you come in the front of the building. Okay. And the stair upstairs is where? To the left or the right? We have two separate entries. We have the one that goes to the second floor and the one that goes only to the first floor. And then from the first floor, how do you get to the basement? Right now or in the future? In the plans. In the plans is by using the same space, but just going in the same location, same space. The same stair that is going to the second floor, we're planning to use the same space, going to the first floor, basement floor. Okay. So we just have enough room to do that. Yes. What's the bedrooms and what's the light and the escape or anything like that? Yes. In order for room to be hovered, we need a natural light and ventilation. And what we're going to do is increase existing windows to have enough natural light and ventilation for rooms to be hovered. And is the utility space separated in this design? The utility space is separated. But it can also be accessed as an emergency address out of the lower level. Okay. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Vocaletic Rural from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. During the community meeting, there was a large turnout. The abiders are in support. Also, they have to send to signatures in favor of this application. This is one of those very unique properties in the sponsor. And actually has parking and is right across the street from the Owing HighST stop. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Michael Sinatra from Council, Alamateen's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Before we make a motion, I just wanted to draw the board's attention to the BRA's recommendation. And that is that the occupancy not to exceed three dwellings and there will be no building code relief. Can I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. No building code relief. Sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that proviso. Okay, good luck. Thanks. Okay, so, in case for re-discussion, calling B-O-A, 6-0, 4-4-242-80 Gold Street. This is combining two puzzles with total lot size of 3666-WF-V, a new five unit residential building. Violation is Article 13, Section 1, insufficient minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. Article 13, Section 1, insufficient minimum lot area, traditional dwelling unit, 1,000 square feet. Article 13, Section 1 exceeds the maximum flow area ratio of 1.0. Article 13, Section 1, insufficient minimum usable open space for dwelling unit, 400 square foot. Article 13, Section 1, insufficient area, depth of 10 feet. Name and address for the wrecking place. Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is George Moran. I'm the attorney for the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. As noted, this is an application for a new five unit dwelling on a 3666-square foot-laught on Gold Street in South Boston. It's currently a vacant lot. The building would be three stories in height. The first floor would have a garage for five off-the-street parking spaces accessed by an existing curb cut on Gold Street. There is no parking on Gold Street regardless due to the width of the street. In addition, there would be a 933-square foot type one adaptable unit on the first floor. The front floor and third floor would each contain two bedroom units of between 11 and 1200 square feet. There would be two moderate sized roof decks, one each for unit four and unit five. The FAR would be 1.8. Let's wait. It's an H150, the maximum FAR is 1.0. Okay. Okay. How are the plans for the design and the construction? Any questions from the Board? What's the access to the roof deck? Plans I have on my device don't have elevations. I'm sure it's going to be hatch rather than hatch. I would suspect. Okay. Does anybody have to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord in support. We did hold an onsite of butters meeting and the project was favorably received. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John, I'll work from Council Bill Winnahans office. We'd like to unrecord in support. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan. May I sit on that large Michael Flerry. Council, I do unrecord in support. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Karen Foley, Councilor Saby George's office. We're supporting this project. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? I'm sure we're all with Bari Design Review and Verizon that the access to the roof deck be by hatch. Okay, thank you. All those in favor? Bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-5-5-8-714-17 Barrett Avenue. This is demolishing existing single-family dwelling, the bind parcels and erecting new three-story five-unit residential building with six-card garage. Violation is article 14, section 14-1. Lot size of minimum requirement. Article 14, section 14-2. Additional law to be required for the other dwelling units is in sufficient. Article 15, section 1. The floor of the A ratio is excessive. Article 17, section 1. Usable open space requirement is in sufficient. Article 18, section 1. Minimum front yard requirement is in sufficient. Article 19, section 1. Minimum side yard requirement is in sufficient. Article 20, section 1. Minimum rear yard requirement is in sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Mike McNally, 803, broadway south-boss and messengers. Tim Johnson, architect 190, old colony-ab south-boston. Madam Chair, members of the board. The initial proposal for this combined parcel was three stories, five unit multi-family with a common garage, two-foot rear yard setback, and side and front balconies. Through four of butters meetings, this project has now been completed. This has now been redesigned into a three-story four townhouse building with six foot rear yard setback and front balconies. These units will be two bedroom, two and a half bath, at approximately 1,300 square feet. Okay. Tell us about their ad. Is there parking on that side of the street? Right now, it's a private way, ma'am. It's a private way. Yeah, there is no parking on the street, so we have ob-street parking for each unit. Okay. And these basically are through units, right? There's no alternate plan way to get to the parking other than providing essentially a wall of garages. That's right. Each garage is separated from each garage. I mean, these are townhouse units combined into a four townhouse building. So they're through units, each unit from garage to the top floor as the townhouse is laid out. How the plans are supposed to design? Rise or adequate. Chip there, I know roof decks, is that correct? That is correct. There are no roof decks. There's no stair going up to them. There's no stair going up to the roof. We work closely with the neighbors and settled on front balconies. Okay. The other issue is relative to the issue on either gold or silver street, whatever it was. The width of the sidewalk that exists now. I got this yesterday, it gets back to the ability to have ADA compliance sidewalks. Right. If the sidewalk doesn't, then it's advocated that you push the building back to achieve the five foot width. Well, I'm not an attorney, but from what I know, I'm talking with Todd Lyming at Public Improvement Commission, private ways do not come under the purview of the city. The issue is, I think, it's an ADA issue. One of those city issues. Well, the private way, we have a 20 foot right of way. Right now, there are no discernible sidewalks in my deal room. No, there is no answer. Okay. I'm confused because when I look at the first floor plan, it shows curb cuts with the Peterview sidewalk, with curb on outside. It's just a... Yes, it's something we always show, I guess, we cut and paste sometimes. Well, I'm advising you that I don't know whether this goes through the IRA design review. Okay. They may insist on it. You can push the building back and you have something wrong. Okay. Now, Mike, we've talked with the abutters on the property, on the private way. We have. And we're going to work with them. We'll work with the abutters on the private way to ensure that everybody has access during construction as well as after. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support of this project. It's gone through numerous changes since it was first proposed. And the proponent has really made an effort to work with the neighbors. One thing that we would request is a BRA design review just to ensure that the townhouses are contextual with what's going on in the rest of the neighborhood. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John, our work from council of Bill Lennie in his office would like to echo the statements of the mayor's office and go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. I hope this accounts out loud for like a clarity. Mr. Mayor's office council, I do want to record and support. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Mojford, approval, Bari, is angry. Thank you. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Calling BLA-58369-3860 East Fourth Street. This is the confirmed accuracy of a one-family dwelling. The opponents are looking to add a one-room extension onto the existing footprint of their home. The majority of the home is two stories with existing one story. The violations, Article 13, Section 13-1, excessive FAR. The maximum allowed is 1,400-2 feet. Article 20, Section 4. Radio ads and an H-justic insufficient radio setbacks. Name and address for the record, please. T-60 East Fourth Street. Your name? Sorry. Tim Keeney, East 60 East Fourth Street. So tell us what you're proposing. So what we're looking at doing is trying to accommodate our growing family by adding an additional bedroom onto our house. And we were talking about adding a 210-foot square foot room on the existing footprint of the house. And why were you deferred the last time? We had an objection that was brought to our attention by Mr. Allison from a civic association in our neighborhood. So we wanted to take the time to be able to address the concerns of the civic association and see if we could work out some kind of agreement or arrangement where all parties would be happy. We also have an objection from a director butter who's here today to testify as well. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Pazani? The lines are out of the question as to these the same plans that you've reached the agreement on. We have not reached the agreement. So there is still an outstanding objection. So we had tried to set up a meeting with the civic association, was told by the member of the association that came to the last meeting that she was, the civic association was basically out on recess for the summer. They would not be meeting with us. And she was, you know, asserting her objection on behalf of the resident of a she's in the quaintance of our director butter. Okay. And what was the objection based on? I believe that it's based on proximity. Even though this addition would be within the existing footprint of the house, I think there's still a concern that it would be too close to her existing structure. So the violation is, the only violation is FAR and rear yard. Is that right, Mr. Fortune? I believe so. Let me double check it. It, yes, excessive FAR, the maximum allowed is 1400 square foot and the insufficient area setbacks. Okay. And this is an age 150. And this is, okay. And this extension is in which yard? Is in which yard? Oh, you said the side yard or the rear yard? It's in the rear yard, so the north side of the property. What were the plans for the design? The drawings are adequate. You know, what were the plans for 13 by 15 to put up the general issue? Okay. Mrs. Lani, how was the rear yard setback problem if it's within the footprint of the house, unless the existing footprint is to help? Stop. Because I believe it's existing, not conformed with the vaccine. Because the vaccine is in the middle of the sound over. So it's existing, not conformed with the vaccine. So this, um, um, is the fortune reminded me that this was, um, in front of the subcommittee and we recommended it come to the full board. That's correct. Okay. Um, any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here an opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'll go on record and support at this time, uh, based on the objections of the rearer butter and the civic association related to privacy. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John, over from council in the hands office. We'd also like to go on record and opposition based on the, uh, opposition of the butter. M. Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, who perhaps has counsel outliers Michael Flaherty. We're going to send them into the mayor's office, counsel to go on record and opposition. Good afternoon, uh, Councillor Osavi, George's office is opposing this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I just had a question. When did they say that they were going to meet again? Did they give you a date? No, we did not receive a date from them. I think they're back in September. John, maybe you can ask them. Yeah, it should be like the second Tuesday in September. So is this just another instance that we wrote to a small little project being held hostage by committee? Uh, I would. I know. Okay. So, okay. So we've heard testimony. We've seen the plans. We've heard from the applicant acting its time from motion. My motion would be to defer this. Is there a second? I'll second federal. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed. Okay. Um, the date, please, Mr. Court. We can get September 27th. And please know that this is September 27th. Yep. We're full of September 13th. We'll leave if I move. We'll go there. We're not going to. We're going to make a decision that day. Yeah, okay. Okay. Thank you very much. We will. Madam Chair, legal council is going to get the recommendations on the approvals and denials for the subcommittee. So he's going to be a minute. Okay. We're going to take a five minute break and we'll adjourn at 12.50. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. The Amb memories in failed the commission了 prize investors from the Federal Prosecutorium寒 of a single-story addition consisting of 200 square feet of living space. BOA 606-837-41 Monument Ab was approved by the subcommittee to extend living space into the basement full bath and laundry. BOA 605-824-61 Telegraphs Free was approved by the subcommittee to confirm the occupancy as a two-family dwelling with a rare addition and deck. BOA 611-875-314-K Street was approved by the subcommittee and confirmed the occupancy as a one-family and changed to a two-family dwelling and renovated the existing building and had shed dormer for additional living space. BOA 606-012-47 Clarence Street was approved by the subcommittee to build an addition to the house family room. BOA 606-191-18 Clifford Street was approved by the subcommittee to enclose the front porch as indicated. BOA 606-429-10 Fox Point Road was approved by the subcommittee and it's added front and readdohmit to the second floor of a single-family cave. BOA 6015-1224-17 Hill Ab was approved by the subcommittee to demolish the existing garage and the rare the existing house and erect an addition to the additional living space into the existing rare yard. BOA 60150-396 Oakton Avenue was approved by the zoning board by the subcommittee. It was to confirm the occupancy as a one-family for an existing condition for many years and build a new front porch and build out three windows from the second floor. BOA 585-338-19 West Glow Street was approved by the subcommittee and it was to add a two-card driveway in tandem parking. BOA 563-343-54-mino street was approved by the subcommittee to change the act from a two-family to a one-family and erect a three-story addition on the side of the dwelling and remove and replace the new front porch. BOA 590-5145 Narragansett Street was approved by the subcommittee to donor an existing structure new two-story addition and repair the existing kitchen. BOA 608-8744-49Ecktascus street was approved by the subcommittee to construct a new one-story repair addition inside Deck and BOA 610-640-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and this was to construct a 22 foot by 25 foot one-story addition studio to the house. The only one that we deferred, it was BOA 567-766132 Edison was deferred to the 922. BOA 573-343-440-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and the office of the subcommittee to the house. BOA 573-343-343-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and the office of the subcommittee to the house. BOA 573-343-740-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and the office of the subcommittee to the house. BOA 573-343-740-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and the office of the subcommittee to the house. BOA 573-343-740-67Ecktascus street was approved by the board and the office of the subcommittee to the house.