 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal subcommittee hearing for December 9, 2021 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures. Adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that had adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time of for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project, that is by those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click that icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Again, for those who are calling in, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comments. In the interests of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call a new at the appropriate time. I will take a quick roll call of members. Mr. Fortune. I'm him out of town. Good to see you again, Mr. Robinson. I'm here to like wise good to see you again. It's to you now. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first order is any deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock cases if you can give me the address. I'm sure 33 Bartlett Street in Charlestown. This is Tim Shia. Sure for the record calling B.O.A. 119 4620 33 Bartlett Street, name and address of the record place. I have Tim Shia and I'm the architect. I'm at nine Wall Street in Charlestown. We were before the border November. We were looking for a later day like March or April, but you couldn't do it on the system at the time. So you told me to come on this time and ask for deferral. Thank you. Now, you know what, one thing that I like. You know, just kind of the way there. Just tough to get anybody together. You know around the holidays. I have a motion, please. Make a motion for deferral. Mrs. Shia and I think you'd be able to make in January or February. Can we do just to be sick? Could we do March just to give us the time? I'm not 17, that 5 p.m. Hey Patty's day, thank you very much. Patrick's day. Yeah. All right. Thank you all. Okay. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals or five of our. During none, I'll go to the first case, first two cases. Case B O A 125 3228 55 Dell Avenue. There's a companion case B O A 125 3232 57 Dell Avenue. This is for 55 Dell Avenue. You change the box from a single family to a two family dwelling. It's a complete renovation of the whole building. Instructed new sunroom head house roof tech and existing roof level in rare addition. The violation is article 59 section 37, Austrian parking in sufficient. Article 59 section 8, the Floyd air ratio is excessive. Article 59 section 8, the building has excessive its stories. Article 59 section 8, the building has excessive in feet. And Article 59 section 8, the front yard is insufficient. Madam Chair, believe the purpose is the same, but I just want to double check the violations are definitely the same. Actually, it's a little bit different 57. It's a confirmed octaves a single family dwelling change. I got to a two family dwelling. Instructed a new sunroom head house at the existing roof level in rare addition. The violations are the same. Name an address of the record please. Anthony Mackie 42 be constreet Gloucester message. She says. Mr. Milwaukee, can you speak up please. Just a little bit hard of hearing. Can you please tell us what you're proposing to do and tell us about that roof deck and how you're proposing to access that roof deck. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Anthony Mackie. I'm representing Liam Comer, Ferdinand, William Comer, Ferdinand owners of 55 and 57 Del Avenue. All the items I discussed tonight. Apply to both buildings. They are the same and both proposals are the same. Way back. It was determined I contact the ZBA and they expressed at the time that it made sense to go for. Both applications at the same time as they are similar. And I think that's the same. And I think that's the same. And I think that's the same. To be to be cognizant of the other applicants who are waiting. Can you go directly and tell us what's being proposed and again, answer my question about the roof deck and the roof and access to that roof deck. Yes, Madam Chair. Both buildings are existing single families. I can't imagine that these two units each access to the upper level office roof deck area will be through unit to both buildings by stair. I'm sorry. So what will, so. Can you please scroll back one page back? Thank you. So this is the second unit. This this plan you're looking at is the garden level of unit one. Okay. So there's two bedrooms. Yeah. Okay. And tell us what what page we should be looking at to look at the roof deck. Slide nine and ten. Stop it slide down right there. Yep. That's the top level of unit two and the stair with the sign that says up. That will be access to the next slide. That is the roof level with the new head house office space that we're proposing with decks on either side. Okay. And each building looks exactly like what's the dimension of that head house. So let's go back to back one slide please. Yeah. It's interior dimensions 11 9 by 16. Okay. And is there a rear addition to? Look at the slide there. You see the grade outside where the red dash line is. There's existing bays there. They were damaged in the fire that occurred in April 2019. And we're proposing to replace those with new structure. And that new structure which looks like it's a it's a boxy structure. Is that right goes up all three floors? So please go to slide number 11. Right right there. The structure of the rear of the building only goes from the garden level to level two to level three. Okay. And tell us about the garden level. What's the floor to ceiling height in there? Okay. And what's the floor to sell height? Law to the the rear windows are standard in the rear because of the grade drops off. So those would be standard 24 inches in the front section. So the floor is five foot six. So we will need to add a platform for egress purposes to get to the 44 inch sill high requirement for egress windows. So if my if I'm reading this right. The bedrooms in the the bedroom in the in the garden level would be for the most part underground. Is that why I'm reading. So the windows are high. Madam chair, but by my calculations, there's 16 square feet of glazed area. As it being a bay, there's a middle window and two side windows which add up to 16 square feet of glazed area total. So if I'm five foot two and if there is a fire, how do I get out of that bedroom through a window? Yes, the building will be sprinkled as part of this project, both buildings. And then what we are going to propose is to build a platform that raises it up. So it'll be a three foot by three foot platform on the inside in the bay that allows the person to stand on that platform and open the windows. And then the window will be the egress window at 7.25 square feet. Okay, when it's open. So the layout looks like at the at the ground at the first low level, it's kitchen living space and the basement, the bedrooms are in the basement. And that is flipped for the upper unit. Okay, how are the plans and the Robinson. The plans are good. I think you hit on the general concerns on the front lower level, garden level, bedroom. You know, I think we sort of try to steer away from this condition, obviously, and it's not, you know, in a little step up, it's, at least a foot, it looks like a foot and some change to get up. So it's quite an incumbrance. I think to get out of that front bedroom. I don't have any other issues with the rear addition or even the rooftop addition, it is flagged as an initial height, but main concern is on the front bedroom in the egress out of that. And what is your read on the headhouse. I mean, I think the headhouse, it's not called out as a program, but it's, it's large enough as a room. So it seems that it's actually will be a usable additional FAR. And I think it's, it's large enough to be used. It's not just sort of an access point, which I think is probably better in some ways. Or some additional space up there and it is flagged as the additional floor height for the zoning. I don't have an issue with it. Is anybody here to speak in support of this project? I'd like to hear from elected officials or representatives of elected officials was. Madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services at this time, let go and record. And deferring to the board's judgment on this matter by way of some background information on the community process conducted by my colleague. And a butter's meeting was held October 13th. The after responded to questions brought up by the neighbors. They received support from director butters and they received the letter of support from the mission Hill neighborhood housing services. Thank you. Thank you. I said anybody else on either in support are in opposition of this proposal. Madam chair, we do have a couple of letters of support. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, do you see any raised hands? Sorry, my name is all nobody's hands. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review as well as no building code relief associated with the lower level bedroom. I think there's an issue with the utility room also opening off the bedroom. So I think there's some some there might be some reconfiguration going to happen in this in the ultimate plan. I think there's a missoramids and may I ask if that will take care of that bedroom issue or should be be more specific about eliminating that front bedroom. I mean, I do think there's the potential for reconfiguring this that the the rear is a full walk out. So I think there is potential. I can I can adjust the proviso to remove the front bedroom. So approve with BPD design review, no building co relief and remove the front bedroom of the garden level unit. Okay. I'll second that motion. I do them in support. So the motion and those proviso scaries. So you're all second. Calling the next case calling B O A 123 9375 10 nodding ham street. This is a curb cut for for the driveway for four vehicles. The violation is article 10 section one. The limitation of air accessory uses an article 65 section nine insufficient open space. Name an address for the record please. I'm sorry. Mr. Malcolm on. Yes, he is. What's the need for. Hello. Yep, go ahead. I can hear you. Hi. Yeah, I. I've talked to many neighbors. And I don't know if I. Mr. Malcolm, please put your name and address on the record. And can you just start off explaining to us what you're planning on doing? I'm going to ask you to. I'm going to ask you to. Welcome to 10 nodding ham street. What just a mess or two one to one. Basically this. This was already done before I was here. The the asphalt and the driveway. I'm. I'm just trying to get a curb cut. And that's it. So is that a one family or two family? It's a two family. It is a two family. Okay. So, you know, I'm going to ask you to. And then tell us what that B and H stands for. That's that's a bulkhead. That's the. Yeah, that's a bulkhead to the basement. So and give us the. So the driveway is 10 feet wide. By how deep is it? That. That it actually goes all all the way back from what they're drawing. And then they can stop it and take it up and stop it. Say at the bulkhead if needed, you know, whatever would. Whatever would work. Okay. And is there parking on that side of the street or nodding. On the street. Yes, there is. Okay. It's a one way street. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? So the plan. The. Can you hear me? I'm sorry. The plans are fine except for. I mean, by my calculation, the depth of the site is. Full site is only 80 feet. So there's no way to park four cars in this front to back. I mean, regular spaces. Well, that's. That's. I'm starting to up to that's a mistake on the architect. The. The engineer was trying to get a hold of them. It's hard for me to get a hold of them to even try to change the plans. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Two cars. Okay. Two cars. Okay. Two cars. Two cars. Two cars. I think would fit on the side. No problem with the width. Obviously, we're not. You know, a lot of parking. The front yard. So I think it's adequate in terms of managing two cars. Sort of in tandem, I guess. Okay. Okay. So. That's my only question. Thank you. Is the fortune any comment from Mr. Domingo? There is not. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Madam chair members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. And that's right. We are. I've had some background information from the community process. Conducted by my colleague. The butter is being was held on September 21st. The app that had direct a butter support. As well as additional community support. And it sounds like the local main street district as well was in support of this proposal. Thank you. Madam chair, we do have a few letters of support. We also have one letter of opposition. But it might have been because there were four vehicles, but they actually is too. The sub-bossager, are there any raised hands? No raised hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso for only two cars and no front yard parking. I'll second that motion. I too am in support, so you're all set for those provisers. Calling the next case, calling PWA 125 18000 191 Milton Street. This is installed at 10 foot by 10 foot pergola 4 8 by 8 post 12 by 48 footings. The violation of Article 65 Section 9 side yards and sufficient. Name and address for the record. Is this the powers on? If somebody representing on Milton. No one has checked in for that one. Okay. I'll hold that one to the side. Okay. Go to the next case, calling PWA 1203714241 Chestnut Avenue. This is installed new decking and railings on existing deck framing to remain and extend deck as shown. Install the new hot tub. The violation, Article 9 Section 1 reconstruction extension of an on conforming building. Article 55 Section 9 and sufficient railing setback. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Timothy Burke. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. I'm the architect in representing the owners of this condominium unit in Jamaica plane. And thank you for this opportunity to present the project. This is an existing deck that is nonconforming. If we can go to the site plan though, it's an interesting site and that there's a large piece of land behind this house that actually belongs to our, the owners. It's just a deed it to be left wild and open. So it's that area you see in the middle there called city of Boston. This land was sold off to all the butters. So even though it looks like it's right on the rear lot line, the, when you're there, you perceive it as a large yard out in the back and people use it to walk dogs and be outside. So we don't feel like it was a real imposition on the rear yard setback in this case. Tell us about so Mr. Burke tell us about the dimension of those of that deck. And it looks like so you say your rear yard is okay. So is this a two family dwelling? Is that what the non conformity is? The non conformity is for the deck itself. It's two feet off the rear lot line of this parcel of land. So what's the zoning district? This is a two F 7000. And how many units in this building? Two. Two units. Okay. My clients live in the unit that we're talking about. And what's the dimension? I'm sorry. Did you see off the deck? The overall size of the deck. If I can go to the plan, I don't remember it right off, but it is right on the plan view. It's back one slide, please. Here it is here. It's about 17 feet long and 16 feet deep. And then adding on that hot tub that you see on the left. It's a but a giant piece of putting stone that sits on the property. So it's kind of well concealed there. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No question. And I agree with Mr. Burke. The rear yard is sort of the urban wild back there. And I think that's a good question. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition at this proposal? Madam chair members of the board, Connor with mayor's office name for the services. At this time, there's office like to defer to the board's judgment. I'm afraid I don't have notes on this for guiding the community process. Our liaison is not in the country right now. So my apologies. I'm sorry. I don't know if you have any questions or questions. I'm sorry. No worries. Okay. We do have four support letters. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling B.O.A. 125. 4.317. 293 strat-fit street. Now, in terms of consistency. vortex.idez, será echt de la tirevis. za reflect a regarding how to change the bus number To look at Michael Relais. Travel must still speak. Violations at a longest complicatio Azalea is excessive at the ambassador last week, All right. Derrick. Name an address for the record please. Derrick, can you hear? There you go. Go ahead. Go ahead, Derrick. Stay with me. I just for the record. So yeah, doing law 68 Harvard Street. Recline. I'm not turning. I represent the ladies. So tell us what's being proposed. Yeah, we're looking for relief on two. Two zone of violations. One's in FAR, which is excessive. The maximum allowed is 0.4. We're looking for 0.43. And there's a second one for excessive stories, which really. It says maximum allowed 2.5. We're actually staying at 2.5. And the. The height. Is not changing at all. So. So give us a little bit of background. Is this a one or two family? It's a one family. And basically, the. The. The. The clients are putting a. A rear dormer. Which. Which is not going to be from road view. It's going to be at the back of the house and a small. Dorma coming out. Out to the front. They. They've recently moved when last year or two. And they. They've been. They've been. They've been. They've been. They've been. They've been. They've recently moved when last year or two. And they. They've really just want a little bit more space on that. Third level. They've. They've done some. Extences outreach. They've. They've got. If I could show a picture. They've got. Every of. A letter from every of. They've got 15. Thank you. Can you hold on for a second. How are the plans. The plans are good. It's. It's very straightforward. I mean, just adding a rear, a rear, a rear, a rear, long, long, and the back for. In large bedroom. On the. On the, on the attic space. All cod. A front dormer for a sitting room. I think. No questions on the proposal. I understand. Is anybody here to speak and support our, a non position to this proposal. Good evening, madam. Chair, if I was the board, jack, Doug and mayors. Opps and neighbor services. Uh, of the neighborhood services. At this time the mayor is obviously elected to defer to the judgment of the board. The applicant did complete a full community process. They went before the West RxNaver Council back on October 26, 2021 and received their full support. In addition, as Dermott mentioned, they have 15 letters of support that have been submitted to the ZBA. Thank you. Thank you. We do have those letters secretary. Okay. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. Let's trade approval, Mr. Robinson. Yep, I think it's consistent with the neighborhood and no questions. It's very, very clear. Okay. I, too, am in support of the motion carries. Thank you very much. Well, second look. Thank you. Call the next case. Call the BOA 1256458176 manual street. This is a firm that is converting the second floor addict space into living space with the shed dorm room. Living area will also consist of two bedrooms. The violation of the article 51 section 9 bill and his excessive stories. Article 51 section 9, the front yards insufficient. An article 51 section 9, the side yacht is insufficient. Even address for the record, please. My name is Theresa Gallagher. I am the owner of 176th annual street. Okay. Can you tell us is this a one or two family? It's a two family. And do you live in the property? I do not live in the property. I live right behind it. Our backyards are the same. Okay. So tell us what you're proposing to do. We are proposing to add two bedrooms in the attic on one side in a bathroom on the other side. So that unit would become a full bedroom unit? Three bedroom. It would become three bedroom. Okay. And the lower floor is how many bedrooms? One bedroom. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Hello, I'm back. Sorry. I'm not sure what happened. Have the plans. Plans are good. No questions on the scope and the farmers are on the side. So they're not facing the streets. So I think it's pretty straightforward. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Madam Chair and members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office would like to defer to the Board's judgment. By way of some background information on the community process, the applicant met with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association and received their full support. Also during the community process, the Mayor's Office received one letter of support. And state rep Kevin Hohn's office also indicated they were in support of this proposal as well. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one support letter. Thank you. No worries, sir. You may have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. Okay. I turn in support so you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. On the next case, calling B O A 123-545-811 Atlantic Street. This is to confirm, according to the one family, it changed to a two family. Basement and roof structural work. Violations, Article 68, Section 29, roof structure restrictions, Article 68, Section 8, front yards insufficient, Article 68, Section 8, side yards insufficient, and Article 68, Section 8, the additional lot of areas insufficient. The name and address, further marketplace. Conducting in, Madam Chair, and members of the Board, my name is Attorney Patrick Mahoney, with the business status of 160 Federal Street. I represent the homeowner, Frank Bridgman. Madam Chair, what we have before us is an existing single family at 11 Atlantic Street. My clients, seeking to add space to the rear, as well as change the use from a single family to a two family. And also in the rear of the first floor will be a garage space added. Unit one is one bedroom unit, a floor through on the first floor. It's 997 square feet. And noticeably, removed from the basement is any bedrooms in Atlantic space as the last hearing that we deferred. We did remove a roof deck as well as a portion to the rear of the building and the bedrooms in the basement. Unit two is a two bedroom unit, approximately 17773 square feet. And this one bedroom located on the second floor adjacent to the floor through living room kitchen, as well as a master bedroom on the top floor, with a small area that walks into a deck. And so did you say that, okay, so there's one one parking spot then in the rear? There's one garage space, yes. Okay. And no roof decks, okay. How are the plans from Sir Robinson? The plans I have show a basement unit and a roof deck. I'm sure I haven't. Yeah, they've been on screen. On the screen, I'm seeing the plan on the screen that looks like the bedroom has been removed. I don't have that plan. I mean, it's the same way. I can't. I can't. Yeah. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. Mr. Mahoney is the is the plan that's up on the screen. The correct plan. It appears so if you could go down the plan, I think it's 2.0 a 2 0 0. Yeah, I have different set of plans. I can see I see there's no route. I mean, I understand the project enough. There's no roof deck shown. I see that and there's no basement in the plans online. Not the ones I have, but. Yeah, yeah, apologize. Mr. Ruff's. That's okay. I'm not sure if it if I just don't have those plans in front of me. So I see the commonality of it. I think with the understanding those two things are removed, I don't have any questions about the proposed scope. Okay. Is so looking at the slide here, Mr. Mahoney. Is that a garage door then at the rear of the building that's proposed? Yes, it is. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, Madam Chairman. This is the board, Haley Dillon Mayor's Office Neighbor Services. At this time, we'd like to defer the vote to the board. I do want to point out that we had a thorough community process and all questions were answered by others. Thank you. Hi, Madam of the chair members of the board. Anna Calderon from Councillor Schling's office. The councilor would like to go record in support. There was a good community process. The proponent worked with neighbors on issues by removing a bedroom in the basement and one on the second floor unit as well as removal of the roof deck and third floor addition. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have letters of support, but nothing since the last time we were here. Okay. I updated. Okay. And I'll raise the mic. Thank you. Ms. Ambassador, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso of no bedroom in the basement and no roof deck just because I don't have the plans in front of me. Okay. I understand. I have second half motion. I too am in support. So motion carries. You know, since since it looks like the staff has that Mr Robinson maybe that could be stamped on your behalf. Yep. Okay. Sorry. Go ahead, please. Call the next case calling VOA 124-482-116 Courtney Road. This is a post to construct a 2.5 story edition at the rear of the existing structure with full basement kitchen failing room. First floor. Master bathroom full bath on the second floor. The violation is article 56 section 8. Claudia ratio is excessive and article 56 section 8. Side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Michael and Jane Kilganan, 16 Courtney Road, West Roxbury. Good evening, Madam Chair and board member. My name is my phone at the pink pose your studio of architecture at 204 Adam Street or just a mass 02122 for the record. Thank you. It's good to see you again, Mr. Phong. Can you tell us what's being proposed? Yes, good to see you again. It has been a while. The proposed will be one 2.5 story edition right at the rear of the existing property. The housing is really small. It's only 21 by 31 feet, which is about 600 square feet is floor. And the proposed edition will be 20 by 26.5 feet with the bathroom with the kitchen and family room on the first floor. Master bedroom and the second floor with the full bath. Okay. Yes, sir. The violation side. And I am. Go ahead and go ahead. The violation of really many minimum with this 710 feet psi yard in the right hand side. But we have 7 foot 6, which is the proposed edition will be aligned with the existing footprint of the building. And the FAR was only 230 feet, square feet over the requirement, which is 0.4 and the proposed will be 0.45. Okay. So, okay. And I know and I do know how tiny those houses are on Courtney. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plan plans are good. No questions. No scope in the basement. Is that correct? That is correct. It's the full basement. That's a storage. Full basement. You're not no bedrooms, nothing. Nothing like that. No. Okay. I have no questions. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jack Duggan, mayors, option, neighborhood services. At this time, the mayors obviously lead to the four to further to the board for their judgment. The applicant did go through the community process. They went to the West Roxford, neighborhood council back in October. On the 26th and received a support vote of seven in support, one in opposition. In addition, I have received a few letters of opposition, two from directive butters. And I've also received several letters of support that have all been submitted to the ZBA. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well. Thank you. I'm sure you're not a chair. We have one raised hand. Thank you. Call number five. You've been unmuted. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Dan Robinson. And I live with my wife Patricia Connors at 20 Courtney Road. And we are direct abouters to the property and question. The proposed added space includes a second full basement that extends the house out in additional 20 feet into the yard. The new enlarged house would be 2,236 square feet in area. That's substantially larger than the size of the directive butters homes on Courtney Road. In fact, our house at only 950 square feet will be overwhelmed by such a looming structure just 15 feet away. Because of its height and projection well into the backyard, new large shadows will be created in all directions throughout the day. These shadows will greatly diminish the amount of sunlight we receive in our home and backyard. And the mass of the building itself will almost completely block our view of open green space and the western sky from our sun porch and patio. A huge precedent will also be set. None of the homes. So can you, other than precedent, do you have anything else to add? Because you've talked about the size. You've talked about the impact on your project as far as on your house, as far as view. You've talked about, let's see, precedent, is there anything else? Privacy. My wife and I will personally lose privacy. And there's, there's no long term benefit to the neighborhood. It will adversely affect the neighbors and set a dangerous precedent that will encourage more oversized homes to be built in an already dense neighborhood of modest homes. Thank you. Thank you. So Mr. Fung, may I just get this straight? That your violation is side yard insufficiency, but that's not because you're extending into the side yard. It's what the side yard already is, right? That is correct. Okay. And then so you're me, I'm just looking at your violations. So you meet the height. In fact, are you below the height requirement? Below the height. Okay. And as far as the FAR, your required is 0.4 and your point proposal is 0.45. Okay. Given all that information, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'm here for the direct butter on the other side of Courtney Road. My name is Chair and I submitted a memorandum in opposition to this project. I'd like to see her in opposition. Sure. Thank you. And tell us if you're any points that you have to make that you can make, that's different than what the butter made at 20 Courtney. Sure. So with respect to the project on my client's side, so my client is to direct the butter on the other side, they're extending the back deck along the side of my client's house, which means she already hears them in the night. My client is 80 years old. She's not only going to hear them sort of from the center of their property, but it's going to be like they're in her house. It's only six feet. Yeah, I know how tight those lots are. So, yes. So that's one point. Noise deck. The shading out issue referenced by the other butter. I also note that in order to grant this variance, Mr. Kilgann is going to need to make a showing of hardship. I'd ask the court for written findings on the issue of hardship before, issued before approving the motion. The other thing is that the construction itself is guaranteed to be lengthy because of the thin passage through which construction vehicles and construction workers are going to have to travel. They're going to have to walk right by my client's window. She's 82 years old. She doesn't want to be disturbed or uncertain in her life by the noise of construction workers passing. And no matter what you say about construction workers are going to try to keep it down. We all know that you're working a job and it's it's not going to hold on, Mr. Jacobson. So, where so your concern is shading privacy, the noise due to not only construction, but to the deck. Okay. So anybody else, Mr. Ambassador, to speak on this proposal? I also just asked the court to make a fighting with respect to hardship, which I don't think is present in this case. Pre-conditioned to the approving the variance. Thank you. Let me miss a ambassador. Anybody else to speak there and support our opposition? No, Madam Chair. There's no reason. Could I just speak of it? Can I just offer a brief statement? Very brief because, yes, go ahead. Which would be a minute or less on the record? My kill-ganen and Jane Kill-ganen homeowners. Okay. I'm coming into my 55th year of living in the house. I've always been a great supporter of the community, a great neighbor. And it's the only reason we're doing this. It's great some space where we can, where family and friends can get together. We're not. This is known by in flip-soda situation, where long-term commitment to the community and to the city. Okay. So we appreciate your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, I actually have one raised hand. Okay. Let's see if we can then we'll move on to the next project. Good evening. My name is Matthew Conley. I live across the street. It's 27 Court E-Road. I speak to myself, my neighbor Mary Mullen, who lives next door, who's also 83 years old. And I just wanted to say that I don't think they're asking for much if you look in context of how much, because obviously they already have the ability to do an addition, but I don't think they're asking for much. And these people are incredible neighbors. And I really believe that throughout this whole type of process, they will be extremely considerate, especially during construction of other neighbors, because that's the type of people they are. And also the street is very, very quiet. There's plenty of parking and availability. I don't think there'll be a problem getting workers in and out of here respectfully and quietly. And I know these people will take everybody's thoughts in families into consideration. That's why I support them. So you are representing yourself at 27 Court E-Road? Yes, ma'am. And you said you are also representing your neighbor. What address is she at? She's directly next door to me. Mary Melon, is it 31? Okay. 27 and 31, Courtney. Okay, excellent. Ms. Ambassador, anybody else? May I? Anybody else? Okay. Collar, call number five. I thought we heard from Collar number. Did we hear from Collar? It's still raised. Collar number five. Is that Dan Robinson? I'll take that. Pick it down. Okay, all right. Thank you. So no, Ms. Alda. I'll do it. Okay. Madam Chair, can I have a last word? Yes, please. And then we need to take a motion quickly. Okay. As the other person mentioned earlier, that the addition would be 2236 square feet. That's untrue because the house right, the existing house right now is 1200 square feet. In the addition, for both floors, there's only 160 square feet that bring up to 2236 total, not the 2236. Now we hear another question. We got the total was 2236. Again, what is the existing? 1200 square feet. Okay, so you're adding about a thousand square feet. That is correct. As I mentioned earlier, the FAR is only 236 square feet over. Okay. So given all that information, may I have a motion, please? Just before you vote, can I just have a confirmation from the board that they received the nine page memorandum that I submitted and had the opportunity to excuse me. This is the chairs asking for a vote. Ms. Ambassador, can you mute everybody else? This is Eric. I will make a motion to approve with BPDAT design review. I'll second that motion. I do them in support to the motion carries. So the motion carries with that provides a good luck. I'm going to go back to a case I called earlier to see if they're on. Ksp 08 125 180 0191 Milton Street. Gerald is still not in. Okay. Well, it's now 548. I'm going to make a motion for denial without prejudice. Okay. Second. I'll second that. I do them in support. So it's denied without prejudice. That was the last case of the meeting for tonight is now adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good night. Good night. Good night.