 Good evening. The City of Boston's Zoning Board of Appeal hearing, a subcommittee hearing for September 15, 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the openly meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 31, 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys are representatives, will participate in the hearing as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, press star nine to raise and lower your hand, star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Miss Portion reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know to call in you at the appropriate time. Just to take a quick roll call, Mr. Portion. Yeah, Madam Chair. Mr. O'Rillick. Yeah. Excellent. Mr. Portion, it's all yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry we can't see a beautiful face on the screen, but we're going to let you get voice. Okay, excellent. I'm going to call any deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock hearings if you can give me the address if you are going to defer or withdraw. There are none. I'll call the first case calling the OA-13008006 Ruth's Ministry. This is a REF-4T extension expansion to include new footings, new column support by 4x6 pressure treated, all structure, new five-quarter decking, and new handrails. The violation is Article 50 Section 29, the usable open spaces insufficient. Article 50 Section 21, 2029, side yard is insufficient and Article 50 Section 29, the rear yard, is insufficient. I'm going to add just for the record. Thank you. Does anyone want to have the six-roomed ministry? I am Ellie Cattle Lasquez, six-worth ministry, all 2121. So please tell us what you're proposing to do. Is this the one family or a two family and is it owner occupied? I'm the owner and it's a two family home. It's a two family home. Okay, and you live in the building? Yes, I live in the second floor. Okay, so tell us about these decks that you're proposing. How are you proposing to expand them? Just a little bit, just the second floor that I want to expand the little bed, it's just not too much. Okay, I'm going to do. Okay. Mr. Ola, how are the plans? The plans are straightforward, very simple. Okay, is there anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Keisha Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant met with the butters and also met with Michael Zuf from Project Right and everything is checked out no opposition and at this point, we would like to defer adjustment to the board. Madam Chair, I have no room. May I have a motion, please? I'm making motion to approve. The BPDA asks your design review. I'm not sure if it's really necessary, but... Okay, I'll set the motion. I do amend support, some motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Madam Chair, I want to take a roll, roll, roll, roll, roll, roll voice. Thank you for the reminder. Fortune. Yes. Olaik. All right. A round you'll also in support, some motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Calling an ex-case, calling the OA 134-1439-34 Halsey Road. This is the builder's second floor addition to the rear of the house for new kitchen. Violation is Article 69 Section 9. The fluidity ratio is excessive. Article 69 Section 9, the side jazz is insufficient and Article 69 Section 9 the ray yet is insufficient. They even add just to the record, please. Is there anybody on for Halsey Road? If you aren't for that address, can you raise your hand or send me a message in the chat? We can go to the next one just a second. Okay. Calling your next case, calling the OA 134-451424-5 U Street. This is a curb cut to access the existing drive, paved driveway. Violation, Article 10 Section 1, limitation of area, any residential district shall it. So, and in any accessory use, occupy any part of the front or side jazz required by this code, except that such a side job may be used for off-street parking, located more than five feet from the side lot line. And in no other district shall any accessory use other than the Austrian parking, occupy any part of the front or side jazz required by this code. They may not just for the record, please. Hi, my name is Matthew Fecto at 24-5 U Street. So, this is Fecto, can you describe to us what you're planning on doing? Sure. So, there is a existing paved driveway on the side of our house and a curb cut was never done, and the driveway was paved prior to our ownership starting in 2019. And so, we'd just be looking for a curb cut in order to be able to access the parking on the side of the house. Okay, Mr. Oleg, how are the plans? The plans are straightforward. There is a driveway on the side of the house. To the applicant, you already used it to drive over the curb? We don't. We try to keep on the right side of things. Well, good for you. There is room to get to cars, tandem without involving the front yard parking. So, a curb cut would be helpful. Madam Chair, I don't know. Mr. Jimmy goes on, but he did speak on this. I don't just think it is Mr. Jimmy going. Yes, I am. Very, you are. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Bob. Okay, I'm Madam Chair, members of the Board, Bob, the me go B.T.D. I have more accession to this. I would just like to see the curb cut aligned better with the proposed parking locations in a notherly direction. Because right now, it doesn't align as well as it should because it would involve a turn to get to the actual parking location. So, I'd like to see that the curb cut move to align it better so there will be no turning to gain access to the parking. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office selected the first judgment to the Board. So, back information on the community process, our office held the butters meeting on July 25th. No of butters attended and subsequently none reached out to our office to express any concerns. I understand that the applicant also reached out to the closest neighborhood association, Lana, at this time we defer to the Board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have more raised hands. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Let me ask the applicant a question. Mr. Domingo is right. There's a little offset from the curb cut to the drive. Is there a reason for that? Is there something in the way or why is that? So, the the the the surveyor suggested that we move the curb cut slightly off of the property line. And right now, the driveway, the paved driveway sort of goes straight to the along the side of the house. But there's a little grass, maybe a two or three foot wide grassy area that would better align with the 10 foot curb cut that's being proposed. So that that grassy area we would we would expand the the driveway there and then you know, be able to access it that way. Oh, there's no street tree or anything else. Okay. And, uh, Madam Chair, what he's saying makes sense. So this is the curb cut is centered on the expanded driveway. And then they'll just have to pull over a little to the right to get the house. It's fine. The way it is. Okay. So, um, may I have a motion? Yeah, motion to approve. I'll second that motion. Fortune. Hi. Alec. Hi. A route is also in support. Motion for approval carries. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the OA 1344569 145 use to street. This is a confirmed offer as a single family dwelling. It construct a new a new deck 18 by 19 in the rear over the first floor kitchen. Violations, I had a 50 section 29 side yadda. Anybody on from use history? I am. I'm not sure if I'm. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes, please put your name and address on the record and tell us. First of all, if it's a one or a two family dwelling, if it's owner occupied and then what you're planning on, um, on dealing. Yes, ma'am. Um, my name is Anthony Balls. Um, I'm one of the contractors working on the, um, at this property. Um, my you need my address as well. Yeah. Okay, my address is 1709 Dorchester, Robin, uh, Dorchester 02124. Okay. So I can tell it so it is a single family. Is it owner occupied? Yes, ma'am. Okay, so tell us about the deck. The deck is over the first floor kitchen. Yes, the first floor kitchen is, I'm not sure if you can see my thing moving. Okay. So hold on a second. Okay. Um, how are the plans? Um, all you've got is the plot plan that you see there. There's no elevation showing the railings or anything, but I mean, this is really simple. So I guess it's, uh, what a preferred elevation, but it's adequate. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Could you name Madam Chair and members of the board? My name is Keisha Santana from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Um, the applicant met with the butters on July 28th, in which we did not have attendance. There's no support or opposition in this project. Um, at this point, we would like to defer adjustment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no evidence. Um, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll second that motion. Fortune. Aye. Alec. Aye. A round. Joe's often support. The motion carries motion for approval carries. So good luck, sir. Thank you very much, ma'am. Calling the next case, calling the away 1345274 11 tap and screen. This is a partial change of use to create flexible family space in existing garage bond. By removing two and three parking spaces, one parking space will remain. Violation on equal 67 section 33 application of a dimensional rent requirement. I may have just for the record, please. All right, good evening, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of board, Ron Warrington, uh, one 10a in ministry, Cambridge, Mass. I'm here on behalf of my clients, Joe and Chusel Lowe, who are also on the call. Uh, this is an existing structure. Uh, existing barn. So, so, so hold on. Tell us if this is, so this is a one family dwelling. Is it? This is a barn and garage that's behind a single family drawing. That's correct. So it is a single family dwelling. Okay. Um, and so, um, so yeah, tell us about what the we propose reuse of the garage one is supposed to be. Sure. So that right now there's three parking spaces. We're proposing to keep one inside the barn. They're still parking outside of the barn. Inside the barn, this is a flexible family space. Uh, uh, there'll be, there'll be a home office space, a home gym space, and a bathroom as well as a first floor open open area. The idea here is just to give more space for the kids and family to, uh, to live. We're also removing the single story portion of barn, uh, shown on the survey right on the left. And actually making the barn more conforming, uh, with that side yard setback. Uh, I think those, so let me just, let me just ask you. So if you, so it's a home office, a gym, and just jungle flexible space. So you are extending, um, water and heating into that barn? Yeah, there's going to be a heat pump, uh, for, for heating and cooling. And, uh, we're proposing to connect to the sewer and the existing house. So of course, I have to go through, uh, approvals for that as well. And, um, so this is entirely proposed for flexible space and not for occupancy in any way, shape or form. That's correct. Okay. How are the plans for St. Olic? Um, the, the characterization is accurate. This is not, uh, a separate unit, uh, uh, separate domicile. This is an expanded space. So the plans are okay. Okay. Um, is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor's office, like to defer judgment to the board. Some background information in the community process, our office held in the butters, meaning on August 3rd, uh, where several of butters were in attendance. After that meeting, our office received six letters to support for the project. And the applicant reached out to the local civic association. Lana with that, we deferred to board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have those letters of support. The mayor's office vote, though. Thank you. Um, Mr. Olic, a question. Will any of those parking spaces that will be removed from the garage being the parking in the front yard? Uh, well, it can't really tell from, um, no, no, no, no, no. There's no, no, there'll be a number of the house in front in front of that barn. Okay. Um, Mr. Ambassador, is that everybody? Yeah. No, we have to. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second, emulsion. Fortune. Aye. Olic. Aye. A round your all in support for the motion for approval. Carries. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling the OA 134 990 3144. Alma Road. This is the closing of the porch in the back of the house. Install new footing, install new stairs, install eight windows, install a new sliding install new sheetrock, violation. Daticals 65 section 9, the full area ratio is excessive and article 65 section 9, the side yard isn't sufficient. Maybe an address for the record. Is there anybody on the Alma Road? I will come back to that one. Calling the next case. Calling the OA 1350 180 108. Laurie Avenue. This is adding a driveway in front of the house. The two parking spots. Advilator, satical 10 section one limitation of area of excessive use. Name an address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy. Madras business address of 168 H Street first floor, South Boston. With me today is the owner, John McManus. This is a proposal to add off street parking as an accessory used to an existing single-family home that is owner occupied. As you can see here, we've been cited for limitation of the area. This is in line with what is existing in the neighborhood for others. So, let me just ask you, is this front yard parking or is it in the side yard? So, this is going to be in the side yard, but you'll see that there is a driveway to access on the front yard right in line, even more so towards the abutting property on the right-hand side. They do have an off street parking spot that is in the front yard of their property. This is good. Okay, how would the plan, let me just ask Mr. Ola, how would the plan? The plan's just straight forward. It's a 10-foot curb cut. The driveway goes to the front edge of the house and then you've got two 10-room spots from the front edge toward the back. That's a nine-foot six. It'd be better for a 10-foot, but it works. Okay. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. For the community process, the applicant met with the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council and Abutters on Tuesday, July 26, 2022, where the Zoning Council voted 7-0 in support. We also received one letter of support from Abutters at 130, Lori Av. Our office has also not received any letters of opposition, and at this time we deferred judgments of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have a few letters to pull up, but we also have one letter of opposition from the next to a neighbor saying they were printing on their property line. All right. Bob Dominguez. I think Mr. Dominguez, yeah, look. Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board, Bob Dominguez, VTD. And I would just want to be redundant if the group that could be more in line with the parking area, because it's pretty tight there. And to make a turn into those parking spaces might be a little difficult. And my second point is can the parking spaces be pushed further in the rear of the property? Thank you. Madam Chair, speaking in opposition. Okay. Hold on a second. Yes, please put your name and address on the racket. I'm going to close it on 490 textile. I'll have a quick answer. Okay. So tell us what your opposition is based on. Madam Chair, I did send in a letter of opposition that was placed in the file. I'm representing Jeff and Mary Borenstein. They're the director of butters at 112 Lauri Avenue. The proposed driveway on the plan would encroach on the five foot buffer, required by section 10, 10-1 of the zoning code. And we have three issues. One is that the parking spaces appear to directly touch the lot line between the properties in some instances. And certainly will be well within the five foot buffer. If the Borenstein is were to put a fence along the property line, it appears that the park has but not open their doors. It's much too close to the property. In addition, the applicant states in his application, I don't have any lostry parking. In fact, the applicant has a right away in the back of his property, which crosses over a push of my client's property. And he uses the right of a way to drive to the back of his property. We have spoke with the applicant and his counsel, then not willing to give up that a right of a way access if he will grant that a variance for driveway of purposes in parking. And most importantly, I don't believe the applicant has met the steps to requirements for variance. There's no certainly- Okay. Okay. So, okay. So there is a real right of way that's being used by the applicant for parking currently. Madam Chair, can I interject and respond to- No, no, no. I want to hear from the butter. Yes, there is. In fact, I believe it's shown on the plan the right of way towards the back of the property. Okay. Mr. Olic, hold on. I just need to find out. Is there anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition? I have no additional raised hands. Okay. Mr. Olic, what does the plans show? Well, they do show right away in the back. I don't know. I mean, we can ask the applicant to explain how that's used for parking currently or if it is. Again, this is tight. If it were 10 feet wide, it would be better. Mr. Domingo is also suggesting that asking if it can be- the spaces can be moved back a little further, which will certainly help. But I guess I'd like to know from the applicant what's the possibility of using the right of way for parking and accessing the rear of the property. Great. Let's go ahead. Yeah. So there is a there is a passageway in the rear of the property that seems to be under dispute between the neighbors. For the actual deeded passage 10 foot passageway seems to be obstructed from the neighbors. So there was some sort of old handshake deal that allowed some other passageway in the property. But I'm not even quite sure the intent on this code because again, that's not recorded. But also just to address attorney Claremont's statement, it's regarding the actual five foot buffer. In fact, this is an accessory use. So there's no requirements specifically because parking is not required in this area to provide that buffer or even the 10 foot wide passageway as well. So again. So we just we want to make sure that I don't know. What do you think Mr. like Mr. Fortune? Is this ready for action or should there be further conversations? Is it would this benefit from a deferral? I think we should move forward. I mean, I think this is a similar to many other cases that are come before us. It's not ideal. It sounds like there's some disputes between the neighbors, which I don't think we need to get involved. We should just make a judgment based on whether it's satisfactory from the perspective of the usual criteria we use. Madam Chair, secretary. I know what it really would agree with Mr. Ehrlich. But I have a quick question. Obviously, I live in my socks, but I know Laura, you have pretty well. I'm just I'm looking on Google Maps. How are they getting a vehicle in the back of the house? There's no driveway to get in the back. And I see a vehicle parked on the backside. Mr. Spitz, can you maybe explain that? So again, I'm not quite sure with the access or passageway and the intent is of it. I do have the homeowner here. President, he could probably answer that personally himself if you prefer. I'm just a little confused looking at the next door neighbors. They have the parking driveway, but there's no other driveway to get a vehicle unless they're using something on the back side of the more else grid I would imagine. Yeah, I think there's a cutoff on the other street that they have rights. I believe there's three or four properties to have right to the tentable passageway. And again, there's a legal dispute because I think the actual passageway that's been deeded out has been obstructed. Okay, thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, if I could just include my opposition. Is this a new person or is this the consul? I'm not just trying to claim on it. I'd just like to include my opposition with one of the points. One that was made in the process is an accessory use. Not within the not required to be offered, but section 10.1 appears to me to say, I can be used for off-speed parking located more than five feet from the sideline, which this is not. So they would need a clearance for that. Okay, Councilor. Thank you. Hold on. Miss Ambassador, can you please make sure that everybody's muted but for the board. So Mr. Oleg, Mr. Fortune, are you ready for a motion? Okay, may I have a motion, please? May I have a motion? Make a motion for approval. I'm going to second. Okay, Fortune. Hi. Oleg? Hi. A round, Joe, is awesome in support. Some motion carries for approval. I just want to make a comment because we often see these little spots that come to this board that in fact, if there's something you guys can work out so that you're, you know, everybody's comfortable. Please do so because we've seen these before where actually good conversations have occurred subsequent to our decisions and everybody ends up happy. So we urge you to continue that conversation between the two of you. Great. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-135-2719-168-Sicomo-Squee. This is installing a shed door to create more living space on the third floor, removing a load bearing wall, open up the first floor and frame new walls. The violation dot equals 67 section. I'm the bill and I have accessible stories. I'm in address for the record. You should be on. Sorry guys, I'm doing it myself. Hi, everyone. My name is Andy Juska. What we're trying to achieve is pretty much create another bedroom on the third floor. My family has come from here. Let me just so so hold on a second. Is this a one family or two family? No, it is a one family and it's to remain a one family. It's just, you know, my family grew a little bit. I have a boy and a girl. They both need bedrooms and I'm trying to make everybody and out of bedroom. Okay. Okay. And so what's the floor to see? Oh, it's you're adding a dormer. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Where the straight forward? Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I don't chair members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services. At this time, mayor's office like to defer judgment from the board. We have not heard any concerns from neighbors or residents at the time. Thank you. Madam chair secretary here, we do have one letter of support. Madam chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll suggest BPD design review because it's a change to the exterior. I'll second that. Yeah, and it's an additional story enough and I'll fortune. I. Oleg. I. I. Around you is also in support to the motion for approval, but design review has been approved. Good luck. Thank you so much. Calling an ex-case calling the OA 135 3576 33 Augustus Avenue. This is illegalized the existing living space in the basement, solid bathroom, flooring, the violations on April 67, section nine, the Floyd A. ratio is excessive. May I have an address for the record, please? Madam chair, member of the board, this is Kyle Smith, Kelsey for the early home and departing. I can hear you. May we defer for a hearing or two? I'll be. Oh, okay. You're requesting for deferral. Okay. May I have a motion for deferral? I may maybe pause to present at the end of the hearing. Oh, okay. One of the wait until you have a calm baby at the end of the hearing. Okay, we get it. Okay, let's move to the next case. Thank you. Thank you. Then they had done that. Following the next case, calling the OA 130 70153 C to Groves Street. This is demo and existing deck and adding new addition to an existing single-family home and relocating the existing bulkhead. The violations. Article 65 section 9, insufficient side-dead setback on the right side. Article 65 section 9, insufficient usable open space. And Article 65 section 9, insufficient really, I'd setback. I'm an address for the record, please. Games Walsh 53, seated. Are you the owner of the building? I am. It's a single family. This is a single story addition to create space for my family that is just expanded. Okay, and so the so the new what's the size of the new addition? It's approximately 11 feet four inches by 19 feet seven inches. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Olic? Well, the plans are pretty straightforward. It's removing an existing deck and putting an addition in place. The addition is slightly larger footprint than the then the deck was, but you know, it's relatively. Okay, and so let's see. It says that the projected proposed projection of the addition is within eight feet of a nearby accessory structure. Is that accessory structure on this property or is it on somebody else's property? It's a garage on this. I could garage. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office conducting the butters being on July 19. No concerns were raised at that time and we've not heard any complaints from neighbors with that we defer to the board. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Mr. Oluf, have you seen the BPDAs recommendation? Let's see. It's it's recommending a push. Go ahead. No bellicode relief. Yeah, let's have to do with that with that eight feet. I'm with the art. We actually did revise the plan to bring the addition a for one off of the the leader garage that the violation is no more. What can you put your name and address on the record? Jav and Drisco 180 Allen Street for entering us. Could you repeat what the relation was? We were about 5 feet away from the existing garage but we did pull that back to me. So we're at faithful one to the building. And if we had does Mr. Oluf and Mr. Oluf has the most updated plans? Yes, we did send those in. Yes. Okay. So may I have a motion please? Motion to approve BPDA design review. I don't think there's a need for the bill. I could believe for vision. Yep, it's responded to that fortune. Hi. Alec. All right. A route is also in support of motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Calling an ex case, calling the BOA 136107681 10 Dail Street. It's construct new shed dormers on both sides of the existing gable roof. Finish the attic space and create two new bedrooms and bathrooms in the violation. Article 67 section 9. The lottery is insufficient. Article 67 section 9, the building height and excessive and feet. And on the 67 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good evening Madam Chair. I'm Emma the board. My name is Ivan Hernandez. 111 Baker Street, West Roxbury. I'm speaking on behalf of the homeowners who are also with us here this evening. The we're proposing as you said earlier. I'm sorry. Let me just ask you. Let me just ask you is this a one or two family? It's a one family. Okay. So go ahead, tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing shed dormers on both sides of the third floor level to create two bedrooms and the bathroom is shown there on the plans. Right now there are two rooms up there. It is a finished attic or finished third level. And again, as the plans show, we would be creating a more comfortable space by creating a shed dormer on either side of the existing roof. But we're keeping the existing rich height. We're not increasing the height of the building. We're maintaining the current height. Okay, I'm looking at this on Google Maps. So you have not enclosed the rear deck. Do you have rear decks? There is a rear deck, but yeah, no, there's no nothing's been touched on the lower levels. The front porch will be made as this and the back the same. Okay. How would the plans, Mr. Ellic? Just as the applicant describes. Straight forward shed dormers on either side. It doesn't the height of the building is not changed. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office held in the butters meeting on June 6th. One director butter was in attendance. No concerns were expressed to our office. We're unaware of any other concern. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no other questions. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to approve with BPDA design review to make sure that the dormers you know work with the overall design of the building. I'm going to second up. Motion. Potion thank you for all like. I renowned Joe's also in support and motion for approval with design review Kahrees. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. The following answer does not count. What. sixteen seven and seventy nine, Brookstale road. This is the two shed dormers on the third floor. Violations are at the 51 section nine. The floria race was excessive Otical 51 Section nine. The build had excessive in Article 51, Section 9 of Front Yad is insufficient. Article 51, Section 9 of the Side Yad is insufficient. And Article 51, Section 9 of the rear Yad is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Hi, Patricia Guail McKenna, Matt McKenna from 7 and 9 Brookstill Road. So is this a one or two family and is it owner occupied? Yes, it's a two family dwelling and we are owner occupied. Okay, and this is all stenobriken. Brighten. 02135. Okay. So tell us what you're proposing to do. Sure, I would like to add two shed dormers to the attic level to increase space for our three little girls. We're going to put their bedrooms up there. Remain owner occupied. Okay, and the garage next to you is that yours? If they garage next to us is not ours. No. No, okay, okay. Okay. Okay. So let's see, and this is a single family owner occupied. Sorry, two family. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's a two family. Okay. How would the plans of the. No, very similar to the last last proposal. Just to shed dormers on either side. Okay, and this is a three family owner occupied. Okay. No, no, no. They're fine. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good afternoon, Madam chair members of the board. Frank Vindosa with mayor's office of neighborhood services here. At this time, you'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. The applicant did notify of butters and we haven't heard any community opposition. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time. So we're going to have a meeting with the board. Thank you. Madam, should I have no raised hands? Mr. Oh, that. I'm a fellow. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Pardon me. Is there a motion? Oh, motion to approve with BPD design review. I'll second that motion. Fortune. I. I like. I. The motion to approve the fifth request I conudge by carefully assamental others. A outcomes authority. A round. Geld also supports motion we hetpoul with design review carry. Good luck. Thank you. Following an ask case re-discussion on the beaway 1265. One 5Laughterive two ten costs period. This is stall pew driveway, which interacts with vehicle. The par alive is our house. Article 65, Section 41, I'll be parking in loading. And Article 65, Section 9, the same yard isn't finished. Amen, Adjus, for the record please. Hi. Amen, Adjus, for the record please. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, so my parents, they own this house and then it's a single family and it's gonna occupy. So tell us what they're proposing to do. So, actually this is the old plot plan. I send a new plot plan through email to ISD, a bottle of appeal before, but nobody respond to my email. Because the initial hearing date is last month. Madam Chair, Mr. Domingo is spoken this. I don't know if you want to hear his comments. Um, I guess, okay, I'm looking. Why is this a discussion? Because Madam Chair said the system needs, needs like, needs the new plot plan. So this is the old one and the description of the work is also the old one. So I sent all the new stuff through email to ISD, the BOA for email on September 2nd. And I think always see if any response. So I cannot change anything on the ISD portal too. Okay, so I'm sitting at the original one, but I got, but I was sent the same plan as what's on the screen. So I have not seen the new plan. Okay, because I'm looking at this on Google, on Google and it looks like it was, it has all appearances of a one family, but there is a fence that goes down the middle of the property. That was ISD is already. So the fence has been removed. Okay, Mr. Olyck, what do you think? Do we need to defer it one more time until we have the appropriate plans? Yeah, I can't quite understand what they're proposing based on this plan. It doesn't make a lot of sense. It just, they're proposing just a bathing of a triangle as if the driver is already there. And Google maps, there's no driveway there. Madam chair, I'm going to tell you here. Council has told me there is no email. So we need to either try to figure out. Yeah, and I'm looking at Google maps. Look, and it looks like there is a pretty wide. A pretty wide asphalt area. Okay, so there's a motion may, I may have a motion for deferral motion deferred. Second. Fortune. Like. Rouges also in support. I may have a date, please. Madam chair, we can do the next subcommittee, which is October 13th. Okay, and this is a note to the applicant. Please make sure that you talk to the staff to get a vice site plan in. And also when you are here at the subcommittee, the next time. I hope that you will be able to describe to us what is being proposed so we can clearly understand it. To make a decision, okay? I went to mess up. Like to make so so so so so they gave me the email hold on so. I make sure that I stay on the line. Will somebody please help her? You know, while she's here so that we can just bring closure to it. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you so much. I'm so grateful to have you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. Miss, Miss, Miss. Let's deal with it later. Let's just go back to. We can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, sure. Yeah, sure. Yeah. Calling a couple of cases. I called early case B.O.A. 134 1439 34 halls. He wrote his housing wrote on. All right, Madam chair, it's now. 558. Want to make a motion for denial without prejudice. All right. A round, you all fill in support of the motion carries. Gonna go to the next case calling B.O.A. 134 9903 144 Elmer Road. It's Elmer Road on. Madam chair, it's now 559. I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. Which was the one with it crying baby? It's the next one, Mr. Early. Okay. I'll second your motion. Okay, I'll go to the next case calling B.O.A. 135 3576 33 Augustus Avenue. This is the legalized the existing living space in the basement. It's all bathroom and flooring. The violation was article 67 section 9. The fluidia ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record. Madam chair, members of the board. This is Kyle Smith with this is address of 359 Newbury Street in Boston, back bay. Council for the owner, Miguel Williams, who's on the line as well. Being an immigrant and the also a private architect, so the call as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So the, the, the sense from the B.P.D.A. Is that this building was recently constructed. Yes, Madam chair. There was a pre existing structure that was raised in the favor of a subdivision into two parcels, of which there are two ground up new construction single family homes. This being one of the two. Okay. And tell us what the applicant and dispense using that basement space for. So currently it's just rough, raw space. The intent is to install the bath as noted and just make it essentially finished open spillover area for the family. So it's not divided. It is open for, you know, general household use. Okay. And what's the square footage? I'm just trying to get a sense of the square footage of this space. And the square footage of the entire 33 Augustus. Got it. So Madam chair, the rough open area is noted on the floor plans as 839 square feet. We have about 39 square feet for the bathroom. And then the aggregate current square footage for the second third and four floors or sorry second and third floors are about 2700 square feet in total. So the aggregate area, including the to be renovated finished basement would be shy of 4,390 sorry 395 square feet. And this is a three bedroom. And again, the three bedroom. I mean, this is helpful to us because we have three bedrooms coming in at 1000 square feet or just above 1000 square feet. Go ahead. And technically it's a four bedroom, but it's the fourth area is really open. Okay. Got it. How was it planned, Mr. Oleg? Well, I'm a little confused. If it's an open room and a bathroom and laundry and what, why does it need legalization? Our current aggregate square footage for FAR purposes is approximately about 0.5. With the additional added square footage, we do exceed them the FAR, which puts that approximately about 0.6 and they 0.5 allowable subdistributes. So the issue is the FAR. So yeah, okay. But because you're not proposing any change in in this space, which is a good thing because according to the drawings, it's, you know, for almost 4.5 feet below grade. So it's a, it's a kind of an underground space and we would not look kindly on living space being there. So this just can remain an open room, laundry room, bathroom, and you're just looking to get variants on the FAR for the, for the whole structure. Correct. What, why does the BPD, recommendations, they know building code relation. I am uncertain. I'm not sure. Yeah, I don't know. What, what's the floor to ceiling height in there? It is proposed to be seven feet eight and a half inches tall. Yeah, that's what the drawings, but that's, that's really fine. So you don't know, you don't know, we don't, we don't know why the BPD, yeah, it's correct. Okay. Next, is there a motion in the making? I think there was one point at which they thought this is actually going to be. Hold on, hold on, hold on. May I have a motion? What was that? I'm sorry. Did we get testimony? I don't know. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New England, Mayor's Office, neighborhood services, our office held the butter's meeting on June 15th. There were no, no serious concerns expressed at that meeting. We've not received any letters of opposition with that we defer to the board. Thank you. I do have a raised hand. Kyle, are you looking to give testimony here? Okay, if not, have it. Sorry, that that was myself. I was trying to log off. Thank you. All right, you have no raised hands. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll second have motion. Fortune. Aye. Arleck. Aye. Rao Joe's awesome support. So you've been approved. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. The meeting is now adjourned. Thank you.