 The zoning board of a PLSOP committee hearing, broad till works 14th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure the hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. Number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. But that reason the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. Of there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising an icon. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon the comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune, raise the address into the record. If you do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. At this time, I'll take a roll call. My name is Mark Ehrlich and I'm the acting chair. Mr. Fortune. I'm here, Mr. Chair. Good to see you, Mr. Raza. I'm here, Mr. Chair. Nice to see you. Mr. Fortune will now begin with a call of the list. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The first order is are there any deferrals or withdrawals for tonight. Mr. Chair, there is a withdrawal case B O A. Excuse me. B O A 119 357 450 L Street is withdrawing the parking, the curb cut, but they're moving forward on B O A 12236000. I'm going to make a motion for denial with our prejudice on B O A 119 3574. Second, Baraza. And I'm in favor as well in the motion passes. And are you going to call the first case calling case B O A 1223600050 L Street. This is to renovate the entire unit and remove the existing shed and addition in replace with a new addition and shed. The violation is Article 62 Section 25 roof structure restrictions. They may not address for the record, please. System of honing on. I don't see them. We'll come back to it. Calling the next case calling B O A 1234121 10 Mount Vernon Street. This is a demolition of select interior petition walls, new first floor kitchen bump out and third floor roof, domes. Violation, Article 62 Section 25, structure restrictions, name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon. It's attorney William Fulull on behalf of the owners, negative Ben Pop, who are also on the call. In addition, we have the architect, Marilyn, Mo Denger as a participant. We have before you this evening, but the request for a conditional use permit for violation of Article 62, which is the new structure restriction in this area of childstown. What we are doing several things to renovate the building and the violation. We are going to move to the next one. So, the next one is the result of an expansion of the daughter on the front and the rear. We have page two, which is plan. Zero zero one, you can see the existing commission. The proposed commission is to write. Can you scroll down a little, please. We can see the existing and the section. Okay. So, once again, on your left, you see the existing condition where you have those areas that are shaded that are below four feet. By raising that, we create an additional. One hundred and nineteen square feet on that floor, which will be two bedrooms. This is a single family home. We have a separate room. Results in the violation, which is the configuration of the roof line. You should also know from those drawings that the roof pipe does not change. The roof pipe that continues to be the same. So the additions of square footage are in the. The kitchen bump out has a small area of square footage. So, so is there an F.A.R violation? Is that there is not. There is not. Okay. Okay. This is pretty straightforward. Ms. Baraza, how are the plans? The plans are adequate, Mr. Chair. The and the new ceiling height in the attic with the dormers is what? The room. The room. It is. It varies. But at no point does it go below seven puts. Seven foot 10. Okay. That's. Okay. Is there anyone here to speak in favor of the proposal? No, there are members of the board. My name is keyл in flavor. The mayor's office would like to go on record and support this proposal. We have received letters of support from other. Including one from the Trial Town Preservation Society. Upon BPA review. Thank you. Anyone else? The owner opposition? Mr. chair secretary, we do have letters of support. there's no raise hands I assume. No no raising and thank you. Okay can I have a motion please? Mr. Chair I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a BPDA design review on the exterior with special attention to window type to fit more with this context and the size of the dormer that's on Mount Vernon Street. I want to second that motion. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following the next case calling BOA124201228 cross street. This is an addition to the back deck off the master bedroom on the third floor. Deck is with an all setbacks. The violation is Article 62 Section 25 rule structure restraints. Name and address for the record please. I'm Gregory McIathy for 28 cross street. Tell us what you're proposing please. So we're proposing a back deck off of the master bedroom. The issue is that the front of the building is three stories and there's a rear. There was a rear addition that was two stories. So the deck even though it's within the setbacks sit on top of a roof. So the access is just by a door. Not by a head house or roof hatch. So it's a walk out access correct from the bedroom. Yes. Okay, so I'm actually a little puzzled why that would trigger a roof structure restriction. If it's I mean that the I don't see it on the drawings, but I'm assuming that the deck is below the main roof line. Correct. Correct. Hmm. Yeah, there we go. Ms. Browser, why would that trigger a roof structure restriction? I was not very clear on the violation. I saw other issues with the project in terms of the habitable bedrooms on the basement floor. But in terms of jurisdiction, it works within the existing height of the of the building in terms of minimum. So I'm not clear about that violation. So the I mean, we the agenda doesn't show anything about the basement. Those are existing conditions. Ms. Browser. What I'm seeing on the on the what I made know on the floor plans was that the new is proposing to master bedroom units versus what's existing is just showing the demo. It doesn't show that there's two habitable bedrooms in the basement that's existing. To the applicant is the work in the is is there a new work proposed for the basement? No, we previously got a permit for the work for the basement. And then we followed an amendment for the deck. The work in the basement come come before this board? No, there was. I think yes, you know, the floor area ratio was met. And I think all the items were met. So it was. I guess as a bright. Okay, well, I'm not sure if you're aware of this. I mean, the reason Ms. Baraza's raising this board has a very skeptical perspective on bedrooms in in in basements that are below great. But since that's actually not what is before us. So this fact the agenda I'm not quite sure how we can take any action on that. And I think the only thing that we can take action on is the the back deck off the master bedroom. So as far as you're considering the plans for that Ms. Baraza or. It's adequate correct. Okay, is there anyone here to speak in favor of the proposal? Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Keel and stable. I'm and I'm the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The mayor's office would like to go on record and supported this proposal. Thank you. Mr. chair secretary here, we have one letter of opposition. And Mr. Chair, I'm not stands and what's is there is there. It's 23 cross street and they're opposed to what's going on in the area of the construction and not being very good. I mean, we don't think that we're going to be able to build the construction individual working there and not doing a good job. Okay, are they in opposition to the back deck, do they say anything about that. It did not did not say anything. Okay. Is there anybody? Any Ray sans. No Ray sans, Mr. Chair. Okay. All right. Well, the little concern about these habitable rooms in the basement, but. I think it's going before us so we can't really adjudicate it. So I was entertained emotion on the back deck. Mr. chair, I like to explore emotion of approval with BPD a design review on the exterior deck. I'll second that. And I am in favor as well. I'm. I apologize on Patrick is on he's actually on the phone. He was having some connectivity issues for 50 L. We want to go back to that. I'm going to go back to that. I'm going to go back to that. I'm going to go back to that. I'm going to go back to that. I'm going to go back to that last. We're going to go forward. You're going to go. 50. We'll take that last. We're going to go forward on the rest of the case. Okay, so we're done with 28 cross. Yes. You. Good. Go ahead, Mr. Fortune. All right. The. It's a villageCom Hua, Wa votes to 865671 east 6th Street. Just I confirm octadase a single family dwelling change out to a, a two family dwelling, and proposed DoherView Edition railroad deck new egress there extend living space into the basement and renovated. Violation the Article 68 section 29 roof structure restriction. I to call 68 section 33 driven by four things insufficient. Section 8, the side yards and sufficient and Article 68 Section 8, additional law areas and sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy representing the proponent in this matter today with me also is Scott Trener from Chew & Company who will be joining us. This is a proposal to change and existing one family to a two family through a through a rare addition of the do a do a more addition of red deck off the second floor. A new second means of egress stairway and extending livable space in the basement. I'm going to start off with with unit number one is approximately about 1300 70 square feet consist of a by level. That we have a first floor and then we have extended livable space in the basement. I want to pay specific attention to one little thing in the plans in there that you'll notice in the basement. It does say a bedroom. Unfortunately, that was an oversight. So that should have been that should have been struck from the plans. It's just going to be livable space. I think that I do ask the board if at the end of this presentation, if the board decides to approve this matter, my suggestion would be to add a provisal that no bedroom would be added to the basement as long as we're continue to move forward with the plans and if it's acceptable to the board. So the first floor itself would consist of would consist of a one bedroom. We have a living room, a dining room, and as well as a family room, which would be livable space in the basement itself. And then there is a second means of egress in that basement by the window well on the rear of the property that you will notice from the plans. And then moving on to unit number two unit number two would also be by level and approximately about 1184 square feet of living space that you'll notice on level number two is where that we we will also cited for a roof structure restriction where the deck would be walking out from the rear of the property, which is directly access from the living room. And this also on that same level will have a kitchen dining room living room bathroom and laundry up on the third floor itself is where the dormer would come into play. It will be just leveling out. It would stay within the height, a compliance of the zoning regulations. And it's it would also contain a bathroom in a bedroom as well. Okay. Let me ask a few questions. What is the current use of the basement space? So there's storage right now. There's no livable space down there, but from the pre existing from the plans that I've shown pre existing there was a pre existing bathroom in that basement with the new floor to ceiling height in the basement. The ceiling height in the basement is nine feet, I believe. Actually, I'm sorry. Basement. Yes. Hold on one second. Let me just grab the. So the basement. Brian, we Scott, Trinare, the chief office, one buildings road. We have a existing ceiling height of seven, one in the basement with a proposed of eight foot for a finished ceiling height. So with that additional 11 inches be accomplished by excavation. Yes, Mr. Chairman. And and once it's excavated, what would be the floor to sell to great height? That's a good question. Feel with the moment. Yeah. I ask it every time. So we have a difference of. Second. So a difference of nine inches. So the current basement slab below grade is negative five one. So plus the nine inches. So you looking at negative five 10 roughly. So I mean, it's probably asking that is that we are trying to avoid basement spaces looking like dungeons without any natural light and being largely below grade. You're close to six feet. That's significant. If if the bedroom is moved to the first floor, what will be the use of the basement space on the year proposed plan? So just have an additional that maybe a dense space or a space that that some office work can be completed on. So there's no kitchen, no bathroom. Well, there's a pre existing bathroom that will be renovated. Okay, no kitchen, no kitchen. Okay. All right. How are the plans, Mr. Baraza? Mr. Chair, it's pretty sure forwards adequate. Okay, is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Connor, new with the mayor's office, neighbor of the services, let go and recommend support this proposal. There in the community process, the applicant worked with the community has support from his director butters and neighbors. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board and a caller from Councillor Flings office. The council would like to go and record support based on feedback from neighbors and a bothers at as this proposal is going from one family to a two family and will remain on owner occupy. Thank you. Okay, we have, we have secretary here, we have letters of support as well. Anybody else on the line? No, raise hands at the moment, Mr. Chair. Okay, then can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with to provisal BPD design review for the exterior and also to ensure there's no habitable bedrooms in the basement. I'm going to second that motion as well. And in favor as well, so the motion passes. Sorry, calling next case, calling B O A 124 to 1888, 88th Street. This is constructed to roof deck to include a staircase on the left side of the structure for access the violations at the 68 section 29, the roof structure restriction. Name out name and address for the record, please. And this one 11 Baker Street West Roxbury. Hey, I have talents and value proposal. We're proposing a roof deck on the roof with the structure, obviously, it's a 14 by 14 roof deck. I'm the backside of the existing three story, dwelling. We're proposing connecting to an existing rear stair. This deck would not be seen from the street. It's typical decks set up for the area. There are several similar decks in that same block. That are actually some bigger than this one and some similar size, but it's. I think that the violations, the height and as I was saying, overall, it's a three story house, a three story dwelling with a very similar condition in the areas. Okay. So yeah, can you scroll down a little bit the elevator. I want to see that elevation that shows the no, no, no, the other, I'm sorry, the other direction. I'm sorry, yeah, there we go. Post elevations. This baraza, how are the drawings? The drawings are okay. They could be better. They can show a little bit more of the context and elevation. I'm looking at the Google images and you don't necessarily really have roof decks above a three story building. So it's exceeding the permissible height. You mean you mean in other. And all yeah, basically in most of the neighborhood buildings, I don't see any roof decks. Okay, did you also. I above also notice the BPD recommendation. Yes, I did notice that. I think they recommended access to the roof via roof hatch only until eliminate the exterior staircase. Right, I, you know, now having seen this elevation, I, I did, I assume, because I read their recommendation before seeing the drawing. So I just assume this was the new staircase, because it's actually an extension of existing staircase, isn't it? Yeah, most of that staircase is existing. Yeah, it's it's from the stairs go the way down to the grade. It's actually the second means of the rest and there would be a new flight from the third floor up to the deck. Yeah, it only exists to the third story. So I mean, it's, it's, it's the one more flight. Is the one more flight that's problematic. Yeah. So I think it's a little bit more of a way to get there. I think it's a little bit more of a way to get there. Right. No, no, no, I, I, I guess I feel like I, you know, I would have, I think their recommendation would have been spot on. Have there been no staircase at all. In this case. It's sort of, I'm not so sure. But anyway, okay, let's take some mornings or anyone who's speaking favor of the project. Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services during the community process conducted by my colleague. And the concerns are complaints raised by the neighbors. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Anna Calderon from counselor flings office. The counselor would like to go record in opposition based on feedback from neighbors and the gate of heaven neighborhood association. Due to concerns about quality of life issues related to loud noise parties are all ours and trash removal. That we witnessed throughout the pandemic. These issues were often associated with roof, sex and most of the detriment of neighbors, families with children's or seniors and persons with disabilities. Thank you. I'm a little confused. The mayor's office said that there was no. A neighborhood opposition and counselor flings office is saying there is. Mr. Chair, secretary, I do have one letter. It's just his opposition doesn't give the reason why. And is there anything from the gate of heaven association. We do not have anything from them. Yeah, we reach out to the gate of heaven neighborhood association and they reported that you post this proposal. Okay, Mr. Newman, is this do you have the same data that was a different. So that was indicated by my colleague. So my colleague had stated that no concerns or objections were raised during the community process. So unless this information came in the 11th hour, we don't have anything on five. Okay. And Mr. Chair, please have the issue of the exterior staircase. Ms. Baraza, so I guess I'm looking for a motion at this point. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. Okay, do you want to give him this without prejudice? That means that we're looking for that. Yeah, can come back and rethink that exterior stare and hopefully propose a first hatch instead for access. Thank you. I'm going to second that. All right, and I'll support it as well. So the motion is denied without prejudice. Thank you. Calling the next case calling B.O.A. 105 7367 33 building street. This is to confirm or as a true family. Extend living space into the basement. Violation, identical nine section one. Reconstruction extension of a non-conforming building. I'm going to add this. Just follow the record, please. Should be on. Okay, go ahead. Can you stay to name an address for the record, please. 33,000 street. Boston. We removed the interior stairs to the exterior of the house. We are out of the rear. Right. For the house. And we are remodeled. The apartment. We got in and renovated the whole apartment. And we. Extend in the living space for the first floor to the basement. Okay, this is the two family, Mr. On the floor. This is the family. Yes. So is. Is our all the renovations in the lower unit? Is that or is it both units in the in the first floor? Is it condo or rental? It's a rental. Okay. I also have a question for the applicant. Hang on. Let me. We'll get there. So tell. Tell us about the basement. When you're proposing for the basement. The basement is going to be part of the first floor. It's going to be accessible from the main stairs. Okay. And what is the basement currently used for? It's actually bedrooms in a bathroom. This three bedrooms. This three bedroom. One bath in one storage. That. That's the current. That's the existing condition. It is. Oh, okay. What's the height of the floor to ceiling in the. I believe is. I don't have it with me. Okay. That's not adequate. In the two family, it has to be seven feet. And what do you. Do you have any elevations on the drawings that show? The relate. Part of. I don't know. Okay, because we all, whenever there is. Whenever there's a request to extend living, living space into the basement. We always want to see how far below grade this living space is. Given that there are already bedrooms there, that's even more problematic. And given that you don't have elevations so we can't figure it out, that becomes even more problematic. So Ms. Maraza, I'm sorry didn't have interrupted. What were you going to say? Well, one of the questions I had for the applicant was, was to height from the well finished floor to the exterior grade. So you're very on the screen you're showing that detail. You talking about the acres window? Yes. The acres window, the maximum is three, it's 44, I think three, three eight. Right, but from the from the finished floor of the well to the grade. So how high do you have to climb out? So Ms. Maraza, it looks like it looks like the window, what's the height of the window there? 24 inches? I know that's just that's just illustration. It's just showing that 24 it's the maximum height of the clear opening, but that's not the size of the window. The window's bigger. The window is actually an English window. Okay, okay, so so there's a bunch of information that we need that you'd have not provided. We need elevations. We also need to be able to answer Ms. Maraza's question, which is exactly what is the height from the floor to the grade. And if you're and if you're ceilings are six foot eight, there's a problem to begin with. That's a violation code violation. I think with that makes sense to deny this without prejudice and ask the the applicant to come back with the better proposal or accurate drawings from a professional. Yeah, so do you want to hear an architect? We'd stay in policy. Do you want to make up a motion, Ms. Maraza? Yes, Mr. Chair, I'd like to perform a motion. Excuse me, but I mean, I suppose we should take testimony just for the sake of the process, but the truth is I think I know where we're going to end up no matter what. Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Connor, Newman, and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services are off conducting the buttering meeting on August 19th, 2021. Our office will have come reckon support. Most of it's existing conditions. We don't think there'll be negatively impacting the neighborhood. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. All right, but I think we should go forward with what we discussed. Go ahead, Mr. Maraza. Mr. Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of denial without prejudice to ensure the applicant returns with accurate drawings so we can assess the project. I'll second that motion. And I am in favor as well. So to the applicant, the information that we're looking for is what is the ceiling to the floor height going to be because 6'8 is not as a violation of code. And then, given that you're probably have to go a few inches, excavated a few inches down, what will that make the floor to the great height be? And then the question of bedrooms in that space to begin with is problematic. So you need to come back with a more complete proposal and a better set of drawings. All right, let's move on. Following your next case, calling B-O-A-122-7079-57-59, Great Road. This is a construct new dormant to create additional living space on the third floor with new bathroom, constructing new stair from the second floor to floor access. The violation of Article 56 Section 8, excessive FAR, Article 56 Section 8, insufficient side-jad setback, Article 56 Section 8, the number of allowed stories has been exceeded, and Article 57 Section 9 excessive FAR. Name and address for the record, please. Good evening. My name is Timothy Burke. The architect for the project, my address is 142 Berkeley Street in Boston, and also with me is the owner, Rachel DuPont. And thank you for this opportunity to present this project. Rachel and her husband live on the second floor. It's two family. They're the owners and occupiers of that second floor unit. They have a growing family and are looking for some additional space. So we're looking to expand up into the attic, partially, not the entire attic, but we would be adding 673 square feet to the unit. And we did have a good positive meeting with the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Association. And many of the neighbors weighed in at that time and support. So I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. Okay. So how much additional living space has been created? The 673 square feet, the existing second floor is a gross of 1200 square feet. Okay, and the access is by a new stairwell, correct? Yes, it'll follow up the existing stairways. I'll have adequate height and everything. Code-wise, yes. And the adequate height under the dormers, I assume. Yes, we'll have an eight foot ceiling. Okay, very good. How are the drawings, Mr. Ross? So chair, the drawings are adequate. I see that, Mr. Ross, I see that BPA is suggesting that perhaps the height of the dormers should be reduced. Is that makes sense, you? I think the concern mostly was to lower the height of the dormers, so it doesn't conflict with the existing ridge, the ridge line of the roof. But I would leave that up to the BPDA. Okay, okay. Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proposal? Good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Jack Duggan, mayors office and neighborhood services, just like to go on record and support. As Mr. Verk stated, they went before the West Roxford neighborhood council back in August and received their full support, and there were some neighbors on the call to echo all that support. So thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, we have one letter of opposition from a neighbor. Based on the character of the neighborhood. And Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the proviso for BPDA design review on the exterior, paying special attention to the size of the dormer, and also the height of the dormer. I'm going to second have motion. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. Okay, thank you very much. Following the next case, calling BOA 1233448, HSBARO wrote, this is to add an up to a deck to the rear of the structure of the violation of Article 56, Section A, Side Guads Insufficient. I'm going to add just for the record, please. My name is Mark Green. I'm the contractor. Okay, you tell us what your plans are. We're just going to build a simple deck in the back of this house. It's not going to be seen by anybody except the occupant and the train in the backyard, going by at 45 miles an hour. It doesn't exceed the footprint on either side. The neighbors on each side of our deck are similar. I don't see any issues to build this, and not sure what the opposition could even be at this point. So the violation is side yard, right? Okay. Yeah, and again, it doesn't exceed the footprint of the house, which is already in violation. Okay, so that's okay. That was that was my next question. Thank you for thank you for answering it ahead of time. And and what is it? What is it now that it'll be covering? What's there now? It's just a backyard, a paved area. There's one sort of landing. We can see the the three foot two, which in existence, landing going down to the backyard, and that's going to be part of the deck. So it's going to have two stairs, one from the landing to the deck, and one from the deck to the grade. Okay, can we look at a plan to you? I just want to see the side yard issue. I believe there's a plot plan missing. Okay. Well, but you're telling us that it doesn't exceed the the side of the existing footprint of the building. Correct? Correct. How far is the existing building to your neighboring building? I think it's within 10 feet. I'm not sure the exact, oh wait, to the neighbor in building or the your neighbor's building. That's a good question. I just know what it is to the boundary, the law. And what is that? I'd say it's within 10 feet, might be nine feet in some change. I think it's 10 feet. You wouldn't have a violation. Exactly. It was on 9.3. 9.3? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Mr. Rouse, any other thoughts? I'm having a hard time approving a project that deals with a violation of a side yard without proper drawings. Okay, that seems. I recommend a deferral. Do you want to see it? I don't know if I can share my screen. I can show it, but that helps. You can't share it. There's no way to do that. Unfortunately, we don't have the technology. And we need the proper review of drawings to be submitted to ISD. Well, let's do this. Let's take testimony and then we can make a motion that will address that issue. Anyone here who's become behalf of the applicant? Good evening, Chairman, members of the board, Jack Duggan, Mary's Office and Neighborhood Services. Just like to go under our current support. The applicant went before the West Roxon Neighborhood Council back in August and received their full support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, we have one letter of support. And there's no raised hands at the moment. Okay. I mean, this, Mr. Rouse, this seems relatively diminished, but we still need to. Can we recommend a deferral? We could we could we could do. Yeah, I was going to recommend that we approve and hold signature until you've had a chance to look at the flat plan and see that there aren't any problems. If there are, then we'll address it again, but we can approve and hold signature. So can I have a motion to that effect? I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a provisal that I review the drawing soon. Sure, there's at least a nine foot setback as what was just claimed. Okay, do you want BKDA design to view as well? Yes. Okay. And I'll second that motion. And I too will approve. So we are looking for the applicant to provide a flat plan. So that Mr. Rouse can review it and then assuming everything is copacetic and then we can go forward. So let me ask Jack, you said you had a plot plan? A survey plot plan. Yeah, we have that. No, right. We just don't have it and we the architect didn't have a chance to review it. So just get the get the plot plan to where if the deck is in line with the the existing line footprint of the house, there won't be any problem. We just need to see it. So how do we, how do we, there's no disrespect that I'm sure we are not doubting your word. We have to see it on the plans. No, I want to I want to show to you, but how do I get it like do I make an email to somebody? Talk to the staff at ZBA or ISD. Okay. Yeah, Mark, I'll shoot you an email. We can go from there. Thanks, Jack. Thanks everyone. Following the next case, calling B O A 1 2 1 4 5 5 8 247 willow street. This is our first floor addition to the rear of the existing house with extension of living space up to the attic and includes addition of shed domes and each side of the house. This is also at a family room. Out back on the first floor. The scope also includes a new rear open air deck. The violation is article 56 section 8. The fluid air ratio is excessive. Out of the 56 section 8. The bill and has excessive in stories. Out of the 56 section 8. The rear yard is insufficient and article 56 section 8. The side yard is insufficient. I have an address for the record please. Hi, James and Karen Fini 247 willow street. What's Roxbury? Anything tell us what you what you intend to do. We're intending on putting two bedrooms up in the existing attic and dormering it out to get another bedroom. We don't have enough. We have three kids in only really three livable bedrooms and we're looking to put a family room out back for a little more space there as well. Okay, and the dormer in the attic will add how much living space? It will add two bedrooms to the house and and a master bath. Okay, do you have any idea what the square footage is? Yes. 646 square feet. Okay, and what will the height of the floor to ceiling height be in the attic under the dormers? It's noted as seven foot six on sheet A2. Okay, and what is the size of the the family room back in the first floor? Okay. Is browser can you help out with that? Yeah, so there's no dimensions on well I'm looking right now at A6. So let me see that's a power plant. Okay, even a second floor flaming doesn't have the dimensions. Is the architect oh here it is it's about nine foot nine by 19 foot seven wide. Okay, and is that so there's a side yard in the fish you see in a rear yard in some fish of the east side is this the same as the last one is it is it a pre-existing can do yeah it's really running the lines of the footprint so I don't really see any issues with that. Okay, and what and what is the the rear yard set back going to be when this is when the this is built out? To the applicants do you know the answer to that question? I I have it at 35 feet from the proposed edition on a side on the survey plot plan. Okay, and so how and sounds like the drawings are not great but how are they in general? They're good enough. The drawings are adequate. Okay, okay. Is anyone here to speak on behalf of the proposal? Good evening chairman members of the board Jack Duggan mayors office and neighborhood services just like to go on record support. The applicant went before the West Rucksian-Abrah Council back in August and received their full support. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Chair secretary here we do have one letter of opposition the opposition basically doesn't fit the character of the neighborhood but I'm looking on Google or if they're up there are homes that are similar to this and smaller ones as well. Okay. All right and there the BPDA commented about the the size of the dormer and the very young setback. I assume you saw that Mr. Rouse. I did and it wasn't very clear. I found that they had adequate rear yard setback. Okay, so we can just what we can do. I mean remove that for by zone. Okay, okay. All right. Can I have a motion then? Mr. Chair I'd like to put forward an emotion of approval with two design with two proviso one is BPDA design review for exterior and the second as special attention to the size and height of the dormer to distinguish the original rich line of the roof. I'm going to second that motion and I too am in favor of the motion passes. Following the next case calling BOA 1226162 32 to 34 Kenrick Street. Disappoint proposed redorma with new bathroom on the second floor new bedroom reconfiguration just the violation of article nine section one extension of a not conforming use. Name an address for the record please. Tee Chang be young can you hear me? Yep. I'm clear. Hi so this is just to add a dormer to the rear of the building. Okay, and they're entering the dormers that shed dormer running this along the side of the building. Correct. Yes. Okay. And there's another house next door that basically has like the exact same setup. So. Okay, and what will the height from floor to ceiling be in the new space in the seven feet two inches from the plans? Okay. Seven inches. Seven foot three. This is a two family right? Correct. Yes. Okay. So that's that's that's okay. And how much square footage are you adding by? We're just expanding the existing second floor that has is there's we're not really I guess not adding square footage because there's already we're just sort of renovating the second floor and adding some ceiling heights. So that's okay. So that's really adding I guess I don't know how you know. I understand. That's all a succession of a not conforming use. I get it. Okay. Ms. Borales, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Okay. Is anyone here to speak on behalf of the component? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office name, the services, let go of record and support this proposal. We have not heard opposition from abutting neighbors and they went to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association neighborhood civic and received their support as well. Thank you. Any letters, Mr. Fortune? I'm here. Okay. Looks like that's it. Mr. Miserna. Mr. Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval with a provisile of BPDA design review. Again, with special attention to the wish line. I'm going to second that motion. I too am in favor of the motion passes. And we have one more. Yeah, I'm going to go back to the first case on L for the record calling B O A 122 3 6 0 0 50 Elm Street. Mr. Renovate the entire unit and remove the existing shed in addition and replace with a new addition and shed. The violations onical 62 section 25, roof structure, restriction. They would address the record. Williams. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board. My name is attorney Patrick Mahoney with a business address of 160 Federal Street. I represent Brandon and Amber Cologne with an address of 50 Elm Street. The proposal before today is we're seeking zoning relief for restricted roof structure, which has been triggered because the existing roof, although three stories in the front of the building on Elm Street and the rear portion of the building is only two stories. In any alteration to the profile of roof requires initial use from which we are seeking today. The proposal that granted will be a three story single family building attached on one side. The existing rear setback is 20 feet. We are less than the existing building after completion at 25 feet. The floor area ratio here is two and we are 1.09. So again, we are only seeking relief for restricted roof structure. The first floor is a floor through living area with bedrooms on the second floor in a master bedroom and nursery, which would be classified as a bedroom of building code. Is on the third floor with a rear egress in the addition. Okay, seems relatively straightforward. How are the drawings Mr. Buraza? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Is anyone here to speak in favor of the proposal? Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, my name is Keel and Stapleton with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The mayor's office would like to go on record and supportive this proposal. There wasn't a butters meeting held by our office on August 10, where there was no opposition regarding the addition. We also have received a letter of support from the Charles Town Preservation Society. Thank you. One more note, the addition is not feasible from all of the way. So if approved, we would ask for a straight approval. Mr. Chair, just for the record, we did deny would I'll credit us on the curb cut. The letters that we had for opposition, we regards to the curb cut and talking. So there's no opposition for the particular project. Okay, got it. Thanks for clarifying that. Okay, can I have a motion please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPDD design review on next here. I'm going to second that motion. And I too, I'm in favor of the motion passes. I believe I believe that ends our business for the evening. So thank you, Mr. Fortuna's Rossin meeting is now adjourned. Thank you. Yes, we just did on street. Thank you.