 Thank you. Good evening, the City of Boston Board of Appeal hearing for June 15, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being reported. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. For members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video. Video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public were most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the in the zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. If you have interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called upon or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Thank you for anything. Ms. Weweld. Hi, good evening. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge, the floor is yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. To start off with, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the evening's proceeding. If so, Mr. Christopher, raising your hand for that. Yes, can you, Madam Chairman, is the bottom. I'm here on behalf of 36 G Street requesting a deferral. Mr. Stembridge, do you want to call that into the record? Yes, I do. That would be a request for deferral for case B08, 141, 2546. The address being 36 G Street. Thank you. Again, James Christopher 686 architects here on behalf of the owners. There was some changes to the plans during the community process, which I realized this evening. I would like to thank you for the time being. That's a very important thing. I would like to take this opportunity to go with the ISD for the re-review. As such, I requested a deferral in order to have the plans re-reviewed so that they're properly advertised for the discharings. Thank you. Are you seeking the next available subcommittee date or general board meeting? I'm just checking the next subcommittee. The subcommittee would be July 20th. That would work for us. Okay, I have a motion. I have a motion to defer the hearing for 36 G Street until July 20th. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for your time. Any further request for which are also deferral? I have a motion to deferral. I have a motion to deferral. Hi, folks. This is Dan Hudson from the Office of Neighborhood Services. The mayor's West Rocks really is. And I'm not seeing the applicant in here for 26 and Sonya Road. Oh, I believe that's him actually Sean Brady. We're going to request a referral for 26 and Sonya Road to complete the public process. These guys are going to meet with the. Sorry about that. These folks are going to meet with the West Rocks for Neighborhood Council later this month. And then we will come back. I believe I worked out a date. I think what's happening. I think there's a date available June 11th, but we can confirm that. Um, so. July 11th, Madam Chair. Sorry. July 11th. Thank you. So, um, can we read the case into the record? And can we just have the applicant follow that by confirming that he's seeking a deferral? So that would be a request for the referral case BOA. 14273. So, um, I think that's the same. But the address being 26th and Sonya Road. Stir Brady. Yes. Can you put your name and address into the into the. I'm almost Sean Brady with my address is 26 and Sonya Road and was Rox Bay. The question of the throw because the community meeting on the 27th and next can be July 11th. So, um, I think that's the same. I think that's the same. I think that's the same. Perfect. Perfect. Thank you. With that may I have a motion? Take a motion to defer to July 11th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. First, please. I just need to say yes. I'm sorry. Sorry. Sorry to jump ahead, Madam Chair. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Moving on to the rest of the hearing now. First being case B.O.A. 142. 2737. The address being 166 to 168. Basewater Street. Is the applicant and or their representative president. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So, uh, Mr. Secretary and Madam Chair and board members. My name is Bob. I'm missing on the architect for the project. Right. Can you walk us through the proposal and the violations? Thank you. Great. So what we're seeing on the screen here. The four images. Uh, we have a two family. Uh, the owner lives on the second floor. And the request is to expand in the second floor unit. Into the attic to make it livable space with the nectar of bedroom. The current plan shows two bedrooms, but the interior layout is changing, but that does not affect the outside at all. And. The plan is simply to rebuild the entire roof. It's currently a hit roof. And the plan calls to rebuild the entire roof as a gable. Uh, with a small deck on the front side. And a single bedroom and some additional living space in the bathroom. In the attic space. Uh, with a dormer. And. This is a forced part of the second unit. We're not. You'd have to go through the second floor unit to get to the attic. So clearly this is part of the second floor unit. And it just becomes a two story unit. Uh, you can see the form of the gable. From every angle there on that sheet. Uh, there's a bit of an open opening in the roof just to keep the gable form yet have some open air and a deck space towards the front. If you scroll up just a little bit, you can see the front side. Uh, they're on the right side and the second and the fourth one from the left. Uh, show the upper level deck. And the dormers on either side for the living space inside the attic. Part of the plan also costs for two decks one at the first floor and one at the second floor just to really. Uh, square off the corner of the building where you can see the steep staircase coming into the building. Uh, there's an entrance bump out and the new deck on the upper left of the plan there shows one on the first floor and one on the second floor just as a. As a deck on the front of the house to get the enjoy the views. The only issue there is that the top the further. Top most corner on the left of that new deck. Uh, and fringes on the setback by about six inches. So that's part of the relief that we're seeking. And of course the attic itself the doors are required. To get approval here would be through the neighborhood. Council and everything's been approved and all questions were answered. And, uh, that's the that's the summary. That sounds good. Thank you. Any questions from the board. have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and even with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor's office like deferred to the judgment of this board, us and back information in the community process, I understand that our office is unaware of any concerns from the voters at this time that the applicant met with the Orient Heights Neighborhood Association, which voted to support this proposal with that with deferred to the board. Thank you. Any other raise, Hans? No raising, I'm Madam Chair. Thank you. One question, Madam Chair, from the office. Yes, sir. The occupancy of the unit of the structure chain. I'm sorry, is the question, is there a change to the occupancy? Yes. There's no change to the occupancy. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? I'd like to make a motion to approve the proviso for BPD a design review. Madam second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case to be away. One, four, five, five, three, two. The address of five, thirty to five, thirty two, Commonwealth Avenue. Here's the applicant and or their representative present. Yes, good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Kevin Sween from TSC, consulting, representing our client, bean town donuts LLC with regards to five, thirty, five, thirty two, Commonwealth Avenue. Great. And it's not and just what are you seeking? Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, we're seeking to remove the proviso that was granted to the prior petitioner and grant to bean town donuts LLC. This project is simply an ownership change. There's no, no additional changes beyond the ownership of my client. The Pesky Network is a franchisee dunk and owner, owner operator of about 40 locations throughout the Commonwealth, including others in Boston. We've made no changes to the operation staff or building. It's again, simply an ownership change. Excellent. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office, like it's referred to the judgment as board. Some background information in the community process. Our office had the applicant reach out to a butters with no changes in operations. There were no concerns raised. And they also contacted the Kenmore Civic Association as well. Run aware of any concerns at this time. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Would that have a motion? Madam Chair, motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Weewal. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Members. Have a good night. Next we have case. Be it away. One four six three three three one. The address being 761 East Broadway. It's the applicant and where they represent the present. Madam Chair, members of the subcommittee, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services, representing the applicants. Madam Chair, this is a single family owner occupied building. The owners seek to enlarge the argument, the structure by adding Domas, which is shown on the face. Domas are an alteration to the roof, which requires a conditional use permit. Additionally, there is a rear addition that is set back one foot from the adjoining property at 759. And the proposal is to reconstruct the addition by adding two stories and moving it back to be in alignment with the main building. The main building is set back two feet. The code requires a three foot set back. This is an existing condition. The home will have four bedrooms to provide each bedroom for the applicants three children. There are no bedrooms in the basement. With that, I would answer any question. Mr. Moran, quick clarification. I heard you say initially that there's a one foot between your property in 759 and your addition, your renovation would alter that to two feet. Different. Two feet would be in alignment with the main building. Okay, so it actually is less of a, it's further away from your neighbor, via foot. Right. Okay. Let's fill a one foot violation. Yes, thank you. Any questions from the board? Mind you more. Sorry, ma'am, should I have a question? Yes. You know, the driveway with here, it looks, you know, between the two structures on this lot, the structure on this lot and to the left. Is it 6.7 feet? Is that correct? If I could ask the architect, I'm trying to... So, yes, to the property line, it's about 6 feet, but in reality, between 761 and 763 here, this is all pavement. So, yes, there are property lines here, but really they get up until the building is all paved to the bunny building. Yeah, I think in my experience, this is a pretty narrow drive aisle for one vehicle, but I'm also, you know, so this addition will have a garage in it. Has there been any like turning movements done with... There has, we recently going through construction permit drawings. We actually had the sit-lengineer do a turning radius study because we had those concerns and the owner had the concerns as well. So, we did have that done. Has that been reviewed by BPD to your knowledge? Not, no, that's been held in-house between us. Okay. But this is an existing driveway that's been used for, I don't know how long, but at least this century, if not significantly earlier, there is an existing curb cut and an existing driveway. Okay. Those are my questions for now, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, I actually have one raised hand. Okay. Great. I have two now. Brian, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I'll just for the record, please. Hi, my name is Brian O'Donnell. I am the nephew of Gina O'Donnell who lives at 763 East Broadway, and she is unable to attend. We sent an email earlier yesterday to be reviewed by the board, and we just have concerns about the overall size of the addition and how it impacts our house on the side of the building in regards to shade sunlight. And I think it comes a little bit closer to our side on that driveway side. Okay. And you noted, I think Mr. O'Donnell noted your three stories. And can you clarify just how close you are to 763? And is there a change from your current to your proposed condition? Miss Levin. Sorry. Yeah. Madam Chair, there's no change to the main building. Thanks. So our new addition is coming approximately three feet closer to his property versus what the existing one story structure is in the back. Thank you. Frances, did you indicate another raised hand? Yes, my name is Chair. Yes. All right. Zoom user. You've been unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam. I'm sure members of the board and I call that on from Council President Flynn's office. The councilor would like to go record and support. Thank you. Thank you. And no other raised hands. Madam Chair from the mayor's office. I'm sorry. I don't have a lot of information on this proposal. I'll leave on his out. And I think we were under the impression that this proposal was going to be deferred. Communication that Stephanie Haynes had with the applicant in late May of May 24 seems due to revised plans and additional violation was added. Please request a deferral to a later date. So it can be re-advertised. I don't know if that's in reference to this particular hearing or previous hearing. My apologies. Like I said, I don't have a lot of information for this. Madam Chair, if I can address that, the second submission was withdrawn. And the owners did not wish to go forward. They're anxious to have the construction start to accommodate their family. At the site meeting, there was no opposition. The president of the city point, Castle Island Association, spoke in favor. The most affected of butter at 759 is in support of the project. And unfortunately, the owner next door has been ill and was not available to be contacted by understanding she was in the hospital. That's my understanding. I can stand to be corrected on that matter. Sure. I guess my follow-up question, obviously, that butter is on the call and had some concerns. And so can you just clarify from your perspective, why one butter is more affected than the other since it sounds like you're inching closer to one than the other? Well, the butter most affected is the butter that has the two-foot setback. And that is 759. That's the existing condition. And the rear addition is being moved back, which the current addition is one-foot setback from her property line. It's being reconstructed to be two feet in alignment with the main house. I might add, the addition is to the rear of the property. And the main building is height is not being changed. The height remains the same. Any other questions from Mr. Newman? Sorry, Madam Jam, just getting information in real time. Can confirm that the Civic Association for that area, City Point, wasn't support. The only real concern that was raised in the aboutage meeting was, apparently, there's a home improvement show that will be filmed at that location. So, residents just asked to be kept in the loop if that goes forward. And we did also receive a letter of support from a resident in South Boston as well. So, with that information, we'll do for the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have another question. Of course. Yes. This is to the architect. Can, so are they proposing to pay the bulk of the backyard where there was stone patio and landscaping? Yes. The bulk of that is going to be paid. There is going to be a small area to the back where they have that existing garden shed that there will be the landscape area. But the bulk of it will be pavement. With asphalt. With asphalt. Yeah, asphalt permeable surface will decide that. Okay. Thank you. Any additional questions? Hearing none, ma'am. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. Hearing none, ma'am, motion. Motion to approve. Do you want BPD design review? Motion to approve with BPD design review. May, may I add a proviso and seconding? Yes, please. Go ahead. So I would add the BPD design review, but also with the attention of reducing impervious area. Mr. Stembridge, do you accept that addition to your motion? Yes, I do, ma'am, chair. Okay. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewelf. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B O A. One, four, three, eight, two, eight, one. The address of being one, one, 55, do it just the street. Is the applicant and was there representative? Yes. Can you introduce yourself, put your name to the record and proceed? Yep. Frank Kinnippenberg representing the applicants with Boston Permedadvisors. I'm joined by Nick Klandry, the architect on the project. This project is to take an existing single family that is currently a five bedroom building and split it into two units with four bedrooms in the upper unit and then a one bedroom in the garden unit. As part of that, we would be adding additional egress into the garden unit and adding, you know, kitchen and bathroom. Or adding a kitchen, it already has a bathroom. It would be accessible by that side alley. And we have worked with the director of butters to come to agreement on improvements to the alley to provide suitable access to the unit. Can you confirm, is there a livable space currently in the basement or are you? Yes, correct. There is. There's currently a bedroom and a bathroom down there. Okay. Any other questions from, I'm sorry, were you still presenting? No, I'm good unless you have any other questions for us. Okay, any questions from the board? The basement, the bedroom and the basement will remain. Correct. So you're converting the basement itself into a separate unit, you're not. Yeah, we're essentially removing the interior staircase to access that basement and adding additional egress on the side of the building. Okay. Okay, hearing no questions from the board, we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman from the mayors office and neighborhood services. This time the mayors office would defer to the judgment of this board. Our office conducted an abouters being on March 6th. The applicant answered questions that are direct our butters had and worked in close communication with them on that alleyway, the shared alleyway. They also answered questions from the counselor's office as well and were in contact with the local civic association. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time that would like to refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With that may I have motion? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso that no building code relief be granted. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stumberidge? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next. Next we have case BOA 141 9756. The address being 11 plainfield street. Is the applicant and or their representative? Yes, this is Tom Malone, general contractor. And I'm also here. I'm the homeowner. My husband was with our kids, but he I think he's on the call as well. My name is Felicia Kaser. Thank you. Is what is Mr Malone walking us through this? Yeah, Mr Malone. Well, well, yeah, thank you. Thank you. Again, my name is Tom Malone, 16 or St John Street, Jamaica plain representing David and Vitali Wolf and Felicia Kaser for 11 plainfield street and Jamaica plain. Essentially on this project, what we're planning on doing is extending a dormer to the rear of the house in an area currently occupied by a flat roof to make a new family room. It's an owner occupied two family three bedroom that's going to stay a three bedroom. We're in violation on the side yard for the setback, which is an existing violation in the current house and the building for footprint is not going to change. And we're also a little over on the floor area ratio from 0.7 to 0.85, which is why we're seeking relief. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. Can we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Our office held in the butters meeting on January 19th. The applicant went on to meet with the Stony Brook Neighborhood Association where they were approved. And then on March, that was on March 13th, excuse me. And then they followed up by meeting with the JPMC zoning subcommittee on April 12th. We had no letters of opposition at this time. I would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Madam Chair. Perfect. Thank you, Frances. Would that may have a motion? Like a motion approved. Do you want BPD design review? If I don't feel that strongly on it, but if the chairwoman or Mr. Stembridge would like to suggest that, I'm happy to support that. I would just maybe as a matter of practice. And they can decide if they don't want to review it. Right. So motion approved with a proviso BPD design review. Yeah, the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Louisville. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 145 0082. The address being 162 172 South Street. Is the applicant and or their representative president? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the South Committee. Richard Lins 245 Summars Street, East Boston, behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair is a very straightforward proposal. Please scroll down to this space here. Yeah, perfect. Some pre-existing commercial building located on Jamaica Plain, the corner of Rosemary and South Street. It does contain a total of five commercial spaces. One of those spaces is vacant. It was last used for a locksmith's shop. Our proposal would be to change the occupancy from the last known use of locksmith to a florist with no other changes to the building itself. Because this is located at 3 F 5000 district, the building is already a pre-existing, legally pre-existing, not conforming use. Any change to the uses in this building are conditional and therefore require conditional use permit from the board. So a very relatively straightforward substitute and not conforming use. We're taking the locksmith use away and adding the floor shop, which was pretty well received by the surrounding neighborhood. The only outstanding issue, which typically comes up in these situations is signage. And certainly any signage that would be adding to the building would be required to comply with the BPDA expert at a review for signage. So there's not necessarily a designer review, but any signage that would require a separate short form permit that gets approved through BPD review and locate them to sign in the building. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Lins. I'm excited to see you outside of East Boston. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information on the community process. Our office facilitated a butter's meaning on April 27th. The applicant then went on to meet with the JPMC and acquired their support on May 31st. Throughout the process, there was overwhelming community support for this business concept. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. No raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Would that have a motion? No, may I go ahead, Norm? I'll make a motion for approval with a review of outside changes. We'll sign. May I have a second? Well, second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, Mr. Great, Dr. Chair. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1448512. The address being 39 Vernon Street. Is the applicant handled with their represent present? I don't have anyone checked off of that. OK, why don't we keep going and if they come in later, we'll we'll hear them. OK, which that will go on to case BOA 14445557. The address being 224 Bill Street. It's the applicant and or their represent present. Hello, my name is Brennan Basel. I am the homeowner of 224 Willow Street. You want to walk us through? Sure. So what we are looking to do is add a dormer to our attic to create more space for a bedroom and a bathroom. The issue has been is that there's a pre existing setback that is in violation that we're looking for the relief from. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, can I public testimony? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Dan Hudson, New West Rocks, really is on from the Office of Neighborhood Services. We had our butters meeting April 6th. There were some concerns about height, but we were able to determine that this wouldn't increase the height and it wouldn't affect shadows more than the current structure of the home already does. That said, this was passed unanimously by the West Rocks Community Board Council. They have completed public process, but we will defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Other raise stands? No raise stands. Oh, sorry. Richard, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Richard? Okay. Okay. I'll make that a man motion. I'll make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 145. 0701. The address being 33 to 35. Shaw Street. Is the applicant and what they represent. President. Sorry. Sorry. Terrible lighting over here. Apologies. I'm going to. We did apply trust today was rock. We did apply trust today was rock. We did apply trust today was rock. We did apply trust today was rock. And we just tried to extend the living space from the second floor to the attic. The attic is already everything is the dorms everything is all said is just. Close that up and. Bat room and kitchen that. That's what. Those hand like hand written. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So if they have the stamp of proof on time can't see any of those. A group stamp by ISD. Can you. Keep scrolling. I just. Just can't see. I believe it's on the right hand corner. I don't know. I don't know. That says denied. I don't know what. The drawing was not specifically denied I believe the plans were initially denied for other violations. But not the drawing itself. Also high man's Alex I am the applicant son. It's probably. It is. Is we will have you review these. I have an I would agree with the BPD is recommendation to defer. I had a hard time. Reviewing and kind of orienting myself with the proposed project. You know, they were quite labeled of, you know, right left elevations things like that. And I think the BPD also noted. I think that's a good example of the. Documentation of existing and proposed conditions insufficient at the time of review. And I would agree with that. I think we need a little more information here. Can you say that again? So I'm seeking clarification on. What does you need additional information on? I think that's a little hard to tell what's going on typically we see the whole scope of the structure. And you know, not just a section of it we usually see existing and proposed. And I they're usually labeled. You know, which elevations they are. So. I think just a little bit more detail is required here. I'm not sure if there's anyone from the BPD you can connect with that can give you guidelines for this. I think that's a good example of what you would agree with their assessment. That there. At this point. Because it was not the structure is everything is ready right there. I don't need a plans. This thing is making throw right there the size, whatever. I'm sorry. Pause Mr. Rodriguez. How the air. What are you trying to say? Yeah. I just got a notification that that's how the plans examiner does stamp his plans. So I think that's what I think it's going to be. So that's a good for I see purposes. But if Katie thinks it should be the first update them are specifying the thing that's up to towards. Yeah. So. Yeah. Yeah. So clear from that point there. There's going to be no change to the existing structure. We're just looking to put in flooring and walls essentially. They're existing. I got four dorms already in the house for since they build the house. Everything is ready. Where is I just make that right there so they can see the door and the way to look. But we don't do anything in structural. It's just. Installation and drywall electrical and the problem. That's it. Nothing has to be able to get up. Everything is. What would be useful would it be useful for them to take a picture of their. I think that the challenges the drawings are kind of. I mean as the BDA is also indicating there they they they would like to see more adequate. Tans as well. I mean would it be helpful to show images of the current situation so that we can see that nothing is changing other than the interior or what would be useful. Yeah, I think existing and proposed. I think that's just just just just to show what's changing. Things like that so. You know, just yeah. I think just the. Level of detail and information is not within the plans. You know, we need to see existing proposed label it. I'm not sure whether. You know plans without an architect stamp are allowed and are just in my day job. I don't know if the same translates here. I don't want to give you the wrong information. Poppier, do you know, you know, does Jeff normally connect with folks who have these kinds of questions as well or is it more back to ISD. And then I'm not sure Jeff personally connects, but or someone from BPD. I can't specify their policies that they've done it before, but. While we can defer to. Get updated plans and that we connect that to be. Well, I think that's the direction we're going in, but I don't want I don't want to defer and not provide useful information to Mr. Rodriguez so that he can provide what we are considering adequate plans. So I just want to make sure there's a either an ISD or BPD. A colleague who can, you know, walk them through that. Yeah, Madam chair, I can just restate what the BPD gave if you know. I'm not sure that's that helpful to them. Well, this documentation of existing and proposed addition. So I also found that lacking so could they provide existing and proposed floor plans for this space and label them as such. There would be no change to the floor plan whatsoever. Well, I think I think Mr. Rodriguez what I'm hearing is that we're uncomfortable supporting it at this time in our and are asking if you can share. I think you can share photos of the before and after and anything else that would be useful. So with that, I'm going to ask for a motion. I'll make a motion to defer. You have a second. Second. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, Madam chair. We're in other subcommittee. We did it July 20th. That's enough time. Is that enough time, Mr. Rodriguez? We're honestly, we're not sure what. What that process would entail or whatever. We're not sure what that is looking for there. So. I think as we all has tried to articulate as clearly as possible, what would be useful. So I'm not sure if I understand it. We're just not not sure what we actually need to do on our end. So the time is going to just to figure out what we need to do. Plus. Madam chair, I think we're. We're also being tasked with confirming the occupancy is a two family. So I think that is another piece of that. That has been confirmed by the by the city already. So I do a full look and I'm not sure if that will be the case. But that will look, I'm not sure. On our appeal list, so. I would just hopefully connect with someone at the BPD-A. We think all through every single step and there has to be no issue so far. So I'm going to pause because we've already voted so I'm going to ask hobbyier. If you offline, can connect with BPD and then connect. Someone to Mr. Rodriguez and we. So we can move on. Yes. That sounds fun. Thank you. So, Javier will connect with you Mr. Rundrieg. Yes, after this. Mr. Stemberidge, next case. Next case is BOA 1450923. The address is 60 Sir Dan Avenham. Is the applicant and or their representative, President? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with Adams and Marancy Business Adjus of 168 H Street First Floor. South Boston. Joining me today is Sean McMahon, who is the owner. What is in front of us? We have a proposal for a dirt floor addition. Basically squaring up the entire dirt floor. The height is going to remain existing at 35 feet, but we're increasing the stories from two and a half stories to three stories. And that's what the violation is for here today. The addition will add an approximately 210 square feet. At that point, I'm going to pause for any questions from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Oh, Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I just wanted to point out, I did have a high time with this one, just only because they're mislabeled, the elevations, but once I figured out what was going on, it was fine. I just don't know if anyone, the rear and the side were mislabeled. So, I was like, the wish wasn't quite matching up here. But yeah, so I think this is we, well, as you could see that if you, on this drawing here, if you kind of just scroll down, where the discrepancy was, is that on the left hand side, it says rear elevation. That's actually the side elevation. So those should have been just flip-flop there. So the rear elevation is what is on the back, on the right hand side, bottom right. So just the, I think it was an administrative error. There was a change in Mr. Choose Office that the architect that was working on these plans had suddenly departed Choose Office. But that was something we did pick up during the process, and I did make that clear as we were going through as well. All right, it happens. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have public testimony. I'm out of check. Sorry. Sorry. Dan Hudson from the Opt Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. April 18th, we had our voters meeting here. There were no objections this past. The West Rocks of the Neighborhood Council later that month unanimously. At this time, we're at the furthest judgment of the board. Thank you. Sorry, Francis. Any other reasons? There's a raised hand. I believe it's for the previous case, but can I double check just to be sure? Sure. Thank you. Hi, Richard. You've been unmuted. Are you here for Richard? Yeah, he's still having a she's a sister. Richard? Yeah, I'll just ask him to email. No other raised hands, but I'll share. With that, may I have a motion? Make a motion. I'll see the proof. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Willow? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA, 79718. The address is 38 Hardwick Street. Is the applicant and or their representative present? I see Mr. McAvoy walking. Karen? Karen? Hello? Sorry. Hi, your case is up. Can you treat yourself and walk us through the proposal? Sorry, my name is Kiran McAvoy. I live 38 Hardwick Street, writing currently a single family tree bedroom. I'm looking to dorm or to back of it to create an extra bedroom, bathroom and office slash bedroom. So it would be two bedrooms in the top floor with a bathroom. One of the bedrooms would be an office for now. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Frank Mendoza here, Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services, also Brighton Liaison. Here to testify to the applicant's communication engagement process, we have them reach out to both there are butters as well as the local civic association, the Brighton-Alson Improvement Association, which did vote in support of the proposal before you. As always, we will defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. I knew no raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Motion to approve. May I have a second? I'll second that book. May I add the provison for a designer view if necessary? Mr. Stembridge. Motion to approve with CPA's designer view. Go have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 144 6236. The address being 152 to 154 Greaton Road. Is the applicant and or their representative present? Yes. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Hello, all. This is Kyle Martyr from CAM Construction, present in 452 154 Greaton Road. The proposed project consists of creating a master suite in the attic, kitchen and bathroom renovation on the second floor, and closing the front porch to make a sunroom, demoing and constructing the new front exterior stairway, and adding two dormers. The violations for this proposed projects is a number of allowed stories has been exceeded. This currently two and a half, which is the max. The insufficient lot width, which is 50 feet required. The existing is 45 feet. Insufficient side yard setback, 10 feet is required. There is existing of 6.1 feet. And insufficient front yard setback, 20 feet is required, and we have 12.6 feet. And that is the scope of the work. And can you confirm the violations you just mentioned? Some of those are pre-existing conditions. Are you adding to adding to it? They're pre-existing. The number of allowed stories, insufficient lot width, side yard setback, and a front yard setback. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Good afternoon. Again, Frank Mendoza, Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services, Austin Brighton-Lease, on here to testify to the App Against Community and Engagement process. We did have them reach out to a butters as well as the local civic group. Again, Brighton Austin Improvement Association, which also voted to support the app, the proposal before you. With that said, we will as always defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Madam Chair? Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? I'll make a motion. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Ocean carries. Good luck. Thanks all. Before we move on to the rediscussion, we'll ask if there is any one present to represent 39 Vernon Street. Does it sound like it? Okay. Madam Chair, I would just suggest to final motion for a do-off business. Can I have a motion? Motion to file. Deep tonight without prejudice. Do not. Do not without prejudice. Thank you. Do I have a second? I'll second that. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Next, we will go to the rediscussions. And we have two companion cases. It's first being case B-O-A, 1-3-4-0-1-9-8. The address of 109 to 109-8-Sailam Street. With that, we have case B-O-A, 1-3-4-0-2-0-4. The address being 111-118-Sailam Street. The applicant and or their representative president. Hi. Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. My name is Jill Bono. I'm an operator of El Dente 1-9-Sailam Street. And Benaventos 1-11-Sailam Street. Respectfully, we have full support to the following proposals. I'm an 9-Sailam Street to amend our seating capacity from 36 patrons to 49. No work to be done. No changes of our operation. Correct on the neighborhood or traffic. I'm an 11-Sailam Street to amend our seating capacity from 40 patrons to 60 patrons, including a lower level. No work to be done. No changes of our operation. And no address effect on the neighborhood or traffic. We receive full support from not-to-n-waterfront resident association, not-to-n-waterfront neighborhood council, and no opposition from our bodies. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office referred to the judgment of this board. Our office can concur that we're unaware of any opposition or concerns from a butters. Our office held in the butters meeting on June 13th. The applicant went on to meet with Nura and Unic, which both opted to support this proposal with that will defer to the board. Thank you. Francis, no raised hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, may I have a motion? I like a motion to approve with the proviso that no building code relief be granted. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. All right. I think that's it. Thank you. Have a good night.