 Excuse me. Thank you. The Board of Appeals for June 7th is now underway. Please remember that all conversations should seize. Any conversations in the back of the room please take them outside so that we can hear what's happening. Make sure all your cell phones are off so we're not distracted. And just a reminder, if you're here to speak and support our in opposition to a project, please put your name and address on the record. We are here to find out as much as we can about the project. So if somebody prior to you has already made, has already raised your concern, please just put your name and address on the record. Finally, this in conformance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed. In addition, ISD staff who support the Board of Appeals are taking notes. So Mr. Fortune. Good morning. We will be calling at 930, the extensions. Calling BZC-33444-108-108A-DurchesterStream. Name and address for the record please. My name is Donald Quilt, and I know it with me is Ted Tullum. I wrote to the Board on May 18 requesting an extension of this relief. The reason being that the project was sold recently, Mr. Tullumkin represents the buyer. They would like to continue on with this project as originally permitted by the Board would like an extension in order to accomplish that. How long are you looking for? Motion for one year extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. This is quite a bit of the next case. I'm going to call for the record each one of them into the record. Calling BZC-3336, 86 Liverpool Street. Calling BZC-333-790 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-890 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-998 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-0106 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-1102 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-2, 84 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-88 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-4-92 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-5-104 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-6-100 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-7-96 Liverpool Street. BZC-333-4-899 to 101 Border Street. BZC-333-4-980 Liverpool Street. CCC-335-082 Liverpool Street, and BGC-335-178 Liverpool Street. Name and address for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board, Jeff Drego, Drago and Tuscanyl, 15 Broad Street. I'm here today on behalf of my client, the neighborhood of affordable housing, seeking an extension on the permits. My client was approved last year. This is an affordable housing project. 15 townhouses and two large apartment buildings. The address is listed below. They are working with state tax credits and also D&D funding, which has been held up a bit, but looks like they're going in the right direction. We're looking for a year extension if possible. One year? One year. Motion to grant a one year extension. Second. I'll move on to the paper. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling your next case. Calling VCC-334-23. 77-81 Terrestrial Street. Name and address for the record please. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermick-Hull, the Miller 28th State Street, Suite 802 here in Boston. We're requesting an extension. Subsequent to the zoning decision being entered with ISD. There was an abutter appeal to Superior Court. That appeal is still ongoing as of today. Although we understand and we believe that during an appeal, the applicable period of limitations regarding the use of zoning relief is told. And during the pendency of that appeal, based on our conversations with Council at ISD, we'd like to request a one year extension of our zoning relief just to make the record abundantly clear. We're going to have a motion please. Motion to extend one year. Second. All those in the paper. Motion carries. You're all sector. Thank you. Calling an extra case for Board Final Obritor. Calling BOA-321-90310-348 Harrison Avenue. Companion case BOA-33412-30-36 Traveler Street. And BOA-321-91-350-354 Harrison Avenue. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Dr. Clark LeCasse, Business LeCasse Law LLC 75 Arlington Street, Boston Mass. I represent the developer, national development of the ink block in South End. The three requests before you today are requests to conform the prior zoning decisions for these three buildings which constitute part of the ink block project with respect to the restricted parking, overlay district, conditional use permit for the non-residential parking at three of the buildings. We appeared before the BRA board on February 11, 2016, seeking a notice of project change of our prior developments under Article 80, B, large project review, simply changing the number of surface parking spaces for the restaurant and retail space for buildings 23 and 4 from 67 to 50, basically as a result of rearranging the surface area of the entire complex. We did add 38 spaces for the residential component, but that's not subject to the arpa. So the board final arbiter requests before you simply seek to confirm that our prior arpa ad permits are consistent with our approvals under the notice of project change by the BRA board changing the non-residential parking from 67 spaces to 50 spaces. So 67 to 50 spaces and will that be in fact enough for the non-residential uses in the project? Yes, because we also have the large surface parking deck for the whole foods grocery store which contains 110 parking spaces and what they found is that use is sufficient supply for the other retail tenants as well. So these additional spaces are for the other retail fans? So this is a reduction of 17 spaces. Reduction of 17 on some of the other surface areas behind one of the buildings, but we also still have the purpose of those spaces for the other retail locations in the private environment. Correct. There are some smaller restaurant uses, there's a bank, salad place going in. But as I said, we're adding 38 spaces in a new underground parking garage in building number five which will be the last building to be constructed and known as the CN account of Miniums. Those are for the residents. Those will be residential and those are not subject to the arpaud requirements of this board. Can I have a motion please? Motion to ground the relief question. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Thank you so much. The next case, calling BOA 495-55425 LaGrange Street. Name an address for the record please. Morning, Dennis. Welcome to the Attorney General Code that you Miller representing the property owner of this address. Morning. Good morning. Good morning. I wrote to the board the May 23rd requesting this hearing on the board final arbiter with regard to the style of motion that was made when we were here before you for denial. It came to my attention on information belief that the intention actually was denial without prejudice. I was here before the board to ask if the correction could be made to the vote to reflect what I believe was the intention of the maker of the motion at the time it was made. Mr. Quotia, my recollection of it was that generally there were a lot of issues related to this project and I concern was that we do not see the project in the same form and therefore the motion was for denial. May I have a confirmation of that? As the maker of the motion it was for denial but it was not but it was with the intent that it come back with with an altered proposal. May I have a second? Right. But isn't there another issue here? As I recall one of the issues that the board was having a difficult time with was the seemingly fluidity of the plan that there were motions to move the entrance in the park from one portion to the other and it seems to me that if that change is made then in fact a simple rehabilitation is in here. The problem with the denial is that you can't go back to the same project but if you change the project. So I know that some of this member had a risk of trying to description of how this thing was going to change or how to change and we don't get approval based on the last of the drawings. Okay. So was there a motion? Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Motion carries. What was the motion? Very motion. To confirm the, because you made the motion for the denial? Well, it was explaining. Yes. I didn't make it when I was explaining. And again to reiterate what my reposonis said if the plan, if it comes back within an altered form then it doesn't have to wait for that, like the time. So is there a motion? Motion to confirm the denial. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. The BOA 56092286 Tuddle Street. Name it out just for the record please. Morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is James Christopher. I'm dressed in 247 Middle Street and WAMF. I'm here on behalf of my parents William and Mary Christopher for 86 Tuddle Street. Please tell us why you're here. This project was before the board recently to enclose the rare porch. Since then my parents would like to increase the size of the addition. I've included for the record a copy of the permit for the original scope along with the letter from Mark Joseph, the plans examiner that states that extending the enclosed addition does not create any new zoning violations. So what was the original size that we approved and what's the new proposed size? I believe it was five feet by about eight feet and now it's two five feet by about 13 feet. Motion to grant your brief request. I mean this is completely tremendous. I'll put it in there. I'll put it in there. I'll put it in there. I'll put it in there. I'll put it in there. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries? You're all set. Thank you. Calling the 930 reconsiderations. Calling BOA 573. 876. 89 to 95. Brighten Avenue. Name it at just for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Peter Tamp from Goulson and Stores on behalf of the applicant with me. No amazement from Eden Properties. Any penal ions? 99 Fulton Street, Boston, Mass. No amazement 107. Brighten Avenue. All of a sudden. Please tell us why you're here. Madam Chair, we were before this board on May 10th. The proposal that we had had significant public process and public support. We ultimately were one vote short and we simply asked for reconsideration under Section 5353 of the code. Is there reconsideration off? The reconsideration is of the very same project that we were before you for May 10th on. Considering the efforts made on behalf of the applicant, the outreach to the community and the significant public support, we simply request the opportunity to respond to the comments that were raised by this board at that time. And to provide additional information to the ZBA that we did not provide during that hearing. So are you expecting us today to reopen the case and hear the additional information? Yes. That will later be. At a later date. Yes. So what is this request for precisely? The request is a motion for reconsideration under Section 53 that with the support of five members of this board would allow us to reopen a new hearing on the merits of the project in order to respond to the board's comments. What was the motion at what was the motion on 510? Was it a dial? There were several votes taken. I would characterize from my point of view there being a bit of confusion on my behalf and certainly in terms of the sequence and the number of votes taken. But ultimately it was a denial. Okay. I have a question. Can I have Council explain to me what 530 is and what are what are our options I have? This question is going to be a request for the project. The P.F. meeting is set by the board. There should be no discussion as to the merits of the project today. Or is there a re-hearing on the project? So it would be today. It's just with the board of phones to request for reconsideration. What we would do is we would re-advertise and re-advertise and we notice for hearing at a later date for a new discussion on the re-discussion essentially on the merits of the project. But. So today's board would be just for an opportunity for the project to be decided. Miss Bazzani? Yeah. I am concerned with the presentation of it as a quote and quote reconsideration. Okay. This is the first time that this member has been exposed to that. It comes to logical question. Why then does everybody who's been denied come before us and ask for reconsideration? I mean, it seems to me that the decision was clear. I, in fact, made a motion for its approval. The board did not deal with that motion at merit. Therefore, it failed. Therefore, it was a denial. I've seen no benefit in providing a reconsideration for this project. It went on. We had ample discussion. I think the board was reasonably well and bonned as to what the merits go in on merits of the work. And I am just concerned that if we do this, that just for once, because I don't know how one says no. And the decision of what it was, it is what it is. I see that I agree with the applicant said there was a lot of confusion after the presentation. There's a motion to prove. I was allowed to make a motion to defer it. And I know that this board has in the past, even after a motion to approve and it's not passed, we have allowed other motions. So there is some inconsistency in the past on this board on merit. So the ultimate decision was a denial. And as mentioned prior, a denial means we just don't want to see that project in the same form. We might see in another form. So that is always an option open to you for your consideration. We understand that, but we felt that there was significant information related to specific topics that we either didn't do a good job of or didn't offer that answers or information. So essentially the bottom line is you are proposing to come back, you are proposing to come back with the same project, but you are requesting to come back prior to that year. Ultimately is what it boils down to. Madam Chair, there were specifics that were requested and I appreciate the members' comments about the precedent here. 5-3 does permit this board in their discretion to reconsider. Presumably, there are times when it is appropriate to do so. We maintain that this is one of those times. Had the votes been a motion first for a deferral, perhaps the board would have acted differently. The sequence of votes may have been relevant. What we simply request is that each board member consider some of the specifics that were identified in the comments that the Chair and others made specifically with respect to concerns about student housing and how we would regulate that. Questions about parking and how we would address that. We simply did not feel we had an opportunity and had we had a deferral, we would have had an opportunity at least to present that information to the board. Well the request for deferral, as you know, and some of you know, Mr. Portion always asks right up front, is this a request for deferral? Generally, we did not give the entire merits of the case before granting a deferral. I mean, that's correct. Okay. So, go ahead. I think it's a little bit of a slippery slope to sort of anticipate what people were thinking or may have been thinking and I don't think you really want to go there. And I think Mr. Pazani's point is as well taken that this is not something we do, everybody who felt like it didn't present something comprehensively enough. A thoroughly enough would come back and say, oh, I want to reconsideration kind of want to do a better job. You get one bite at the apple. However, I do remember the particulars, Mr. Pazani made a motion for approval it failed and it would have been straight to now. And then Peter made a motion to defer and that failed and we were left with a denial because nothing had passed. So, that was a little odd. I agree. And based on that, but also taking chair person's, Royo's comments and consideration, if you come back with the same proposal then in some ways, then you're running the risk of what Mr. Pazani said, which is we just open the floodgates for every single thing to be reconsidered. So I don't have a problem with a motion to reconsider, but that's based on the understanding that a different assumption of proposal comes. But, my work can do that anyway. Okay. That's right. Can I add? I think it's in your court. But I'm going to make a motion to deny to maintain our original decision of the line. Mr. Pazani, before we get there, can I ask another question? Yeah. And I'm looking for a little clarification because I was a little bit confused during this process. At that point where we decided to vote for deferral, what, what a number of votes did we need? Matt, you might be able to help with this, chair person, you might be able to help with this. What number of votes did we need for that deferral at that time? Well, it's a standard five proposal. I remember asking for a recount and I remember giving that. Okay. So. And I remember that I was a little bit confused being new on the board and I needed, I probably should have asked for clarification, which is what I'm doing now. So, you know what? Okay. So, there's a motion. Is there a motion? Yes. I mean a motion to maintain our original decision. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Opposed? No, opposed. Okay. So I get to decide and I, it's going to stay as a denial. Okay. Thank you. Calling the next cases for rediscussion. Calling BOA 549-038-104-106-Winterpstreet. There's companion cases. BOA 549-039-104-106-Winterpstreet. BOA 549-04118-108-110-108-1010-Winterpstreet. And BOA 549-040-108-11010-Winterpstreet. This is for 104106-Winterpstreet. This is a change of activity from six units to 12 units in renovations, including installation for a sprinkler system and updated fire alarms, violations, article 50, multi-family dwelling unit use of 12 is of forbidden use, article 50, section 29, large area for additional dwelling units is insufficient, article 50, section 29, fluidity ratio is excessive, article 50, section 29, maximum building height is excessive, article 50, section 29, usable open space is insufficient, article 50, section 43, R-street parking requirement is insufficient. This is a reference to the premises at 104106-Winterpstreet, architectural access board 521-CMR, chapter 10, section 10.1, the general public use and the common use spaces of multiple dwellings. This is for 108-11010-Winterpstreet. This is a change of activity from six units to 12 units and include finishing the attic space, renovating, including installation of sprinkler system and updated fire alarm. 108-11010 will officially be connected as one building. This is the architecture, architectural access board 521-CMR, chapter 10, section 10.1, the general public use and the common use spaces of multiple dwellings. Name and address for the record please. My name is Roberto DiMarco, I am the counsel for the petitioner, address is 350 main street molding. I'm not sure if this project has met several times in the community. The major concern was the number of units, since those meetings and continued work with the community, we provide the unit count need to be built to be done. The total of the two buildings is 18 units. We've also created the handicap accessible graph in between the two buildings to allow access to the great level units of both buildings and we've increased the number of off street parking spaces. It sounds then that there are a couple of these, your violations that you are not requesting then, that you are saying I am being met? Yes, Madam Chair. We are at this point, the parking is now at a 1-1 ratio. We've also met the architectural access board requirements. Is there a building code? I believe that still stands. Still stands, okay. And have any of your other violations changed? We have now reduced the maximum number of units, which was at is 8 for the area. We went from 12 down to 9, so we're at 1 over. So we reduced the violation on that particular code. How do the plans look, Mr. Bazzani? Drungs are adequate. James, could you address the building code violation? Apologies. Whoa, crap. Actually, I believe that's been met. I apologize. That's not the end. Make a motion to deny the building co-ruly for questioning. Sorry. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? OK. So now to the merits of the case. How do the plans of up Mr. Kuzani? Drines are adequate. The accessibility has been well done. One more question. What are the unit sizes? The unit range, Madam Chair, from 1,835 feet with the largest big 1,895 feet, that's across the two buildings. They're large units. They're three and four beds in units. And that is also as a result of minimizing the unit count and working with the neighborhood to provide multiple bedrooms for the offshore families to manage the facilities. OK. Is any other questions with the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this project? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Kyra Fox, Mayors Office and Abundant Services would like to go and record in support. As stated, this was thoroughly vetted through the community. They have gone back and forth on the design and were able to come up with a current plan, which addresses some of the major concerns regarding parking, home ownership opportunities, and overall just community input. And we are strongly supported in the project, as it stands. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Justin Brown from Councilor Tito Jackson's office. The Councillor will like to give his support. Thank you. Hi, my name is Lorraine Wheeler. And I'm here representing the Roxbury Path School with Neighborhood Association, which is the Moulin Street Historic District where the building is located. And we, after a long process that included lots of different moving parts, we do support the project because they did agree to preserve and renovate the two properties. They're making a charitable donation in that neighborhood. But we still just had a couple of questions that if the board could address. So one of the questions was that several times, the architect gave us a rendering. You have a rendering now. And we liked the rendering, but the plans that we saw were very plain. And so we had talked to the architect about adding candles and molding to make the building look more historic and fit within the neighborhood. So I think we can address that. Thank you. Thank you. I am Brian Keith, the 105 Mount Pleasant Avenue Roxbury, president of the Mount Pleasant Neighborhood Association. Although the agreement wasn't perfect, they did make a very strong attempt to work with the community. And I would like to go on my good and support the project. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in support? Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with BRA Design Review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And this acknowledges the withdrawal and the meeting of the requirements of the parking and the architectural access. I just want to make that clear. OK? Thank you. Thank you. Following your next case, it's calling BOA539-072-14 Breck Avenue. It's also a companion case building on BOA539-073-14 Breck Avenue. Prepuses the legalized to work down on the first floor without a permit, change occupant from a two family to a three family, install sprinkles, and on a fire alarm. Building code. Section 1208.2, minimum sale and height. Sale and height is insufficient. Basement egress windows to be revised. Subit two full set of construction drawings, including fire protection. Amen, address for the record, please. Come and join 50th Franklin Street, Boston, 0211-0 for the applicant. Good morning, Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. This man was originally on from May 24th. It was deferred till today because of the building code issue. Subsequently, the men's office has requested that we seek a further deferral to hold one more men's office meeting in the neighborhood. We've had an extensive community process already begin about a year ago. We've revised the design and they've made that request. So courtesy. Make a motion for the deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? July 26th. Thank you. What's good? July 20th. We'll have a 30. July 26th. Thank you. Well, are there any? I'm sorry. We'll go to the next panel. Well, actually, we'll do the 930 cases before we do the building code. Are there any deferrals? Or withdrawals for 930? Address, please. Good morning. Three dashed for ID Street, Nys Boston. Hold on a second, please. I'm sorry. Just for the record. Calling BOA 5790983 ID Street. Name an address for the record, please. Lorraine's Cotino, 1216 Bennington Street, Nys Boston. I'm here today requesting a deferral because Attorney Lins is actually on vacation. The client did ask her Attorney Lins to present the case. The rest of the parties short deferral to July 12th. We are completed with the community process. So we are just asking for that short deferral. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. There are seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? You'll have to lie 26. Thank you. Address, please. 714, Nys Boston Street. Well, the record calling BOA 573, 732, 742, 13 E's fifth street. Name an address for the record, please. George Maranze, I'm an attorney with the business address. It's 350 West Broadway and St. Paul Baud's and Madam Chair and members. We'd like hopefully a July date in this matter. We need to engage in some additional conversations with the abutters about this project before proceeding. Motion for deferral? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? The date of July 26th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals with Darlis 930? Here, we'll go back up to the 930 cases for building code. Calling BOA 585 955 27 to 35, Harrison Avenue. The Sarasin Avenue here. OK. We'll hold on to this case. Calling the first case for 930, calling BOA 573842, two boils to the street. Repetition to change the occupancy to include an adult vocational training and educational international institute in New England on the third floor, urban college on the first and second floor, and office renovations. The violations, Article 38, Section 18, use of an adult vocational training and education use is conditional. Name and address for the record, please. So Jeff Theillman, President and CEO of the International Institute of New England, I live in Arlington, Massachusetts. My address is to Boilson Street. That's where our operation is. Ashley Dunn, dire run architect, six Glenvale Terrace, Jamaica Plane. Michael Taylor, the president of the urban college of Boston 505, Congress Street. The ATF Street, very former panel, council. So please tell us what's being proposed, because I know you guys already moved in. Yeah, we have moved in here. We've begun work. So we are running an adult training program, and our organization works with refugees and immigrants in three locations in New England, Lowell, Manchester and Boston. Boston is our largest field office. The Boston site has six training rooms, one computer lab room for counseling, and case support for refugees and immigrants. And we were issued a net risk permit, work has begun. We expect to finish and move in by August 10th. So how many students are you expecting to be in this space? Well, six classrooms, at the most, you would have to be 120 adult learners in the building at a time during a session. Total capacity for a year could be more than that. What is the current use of the space? Or what was it? Well, it's the China Trade Building, two boils in street third floor. I think there was state offices there. I don't know what was there before. It's previously retail and state offices, and since the BRA purchase being converted over to office use, and essentially we're asking to convert for this portion to institutional for the vocational training, adults. So this is the third floor. Can you speak to the first or are you telling there speak to the first and second floors? Sure. The Urban College of Boston is a two year private nonprofit credit associated with free institution. Where staff was 23 years ago by ABCD. Apparently we serve 1,400 students, 70% of whom live in Boston. Again, I repeat that, 70% of whom live in Boston. When given semester, we serve approximately 800 students from Monday through Saturday, almost all of our classes. I held in the evening. Student population is 96% women, 92% minority. Our muckable diversity is 59% Hispanic, 22% African-American, 11% Asian. Our VGA is 39. I'm a all of our students work full time, raising a family and telling them how to call each other. Still, can you tell us how many classrooms are being closed? We're going to have 14 classrooms in between the first and second floor. OK, and will there be any shared space? Well, we hope that Mr. Taylor and I have spoken a great deal. We hope to work together and collaborate and it's possible that we'll offer some programs together. Yeah. The classrooms for urban college will be used solely by urban college. Primarily, yes, we can do some partnership programs with the organizations like that. OK. I would also add that the building has common space that will be used by students from both of the institutions. OK. And what is the ground floor treatment going to be? Who's going to be responsible for that? We're establishing four classrooms on the first floor. What the rest of the first floor is outfitted with, I'm not sure that's up to the land law, which is the BRA. OK. How do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? Drugs are out. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Danny Chang, Mary's office of the neighborhood services to act about recommend support. The applicant has supported the Chinatown Community and a civic organization. Thanks. And then Chair members of the board of minor affairs and representative of the Carpenter's Union, we'd like to go and record and support on this project. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Gary. Walk our electricians over one on three like the speakers trying to put us in. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to grant. We'll need to request the second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Hi, nice to meet you. I'm the BOA 586-812-326 Meridian Street. This is to erect a three unit residential building. The violation is Article 53 Section 9, insufficient law area for dwelling units. 2000 square feet for the first two units, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient additional law area for each additional dwelling unit, 1000 square feet, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient law width, body feet, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient law frontage, 40 feet, Article 53 Section 9 exceeds the 40-year ratio of 1.0, Article 53 Section 9 exceeds the number of stories, three, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient usable open space for dwelling unit to one of square feet for dwelling unit, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient side yard with five feet, Article 53 Section 9, insufficient area depth, 30 feet, Article 53 Section 36, insufficient number of our street parking, 1.5, name and address for the record place. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Drego, Drego and Tuscano, with the address of 15 Broad Street, I'm the attorney for the applicant, Mr. Guiney, with me I also have Mercedes-Valaba, who is his representative, and James Christopher from RCA, the architect on the project. We're here today seeking zoning relief to correct three unit residential, condominium building at 326 Meridian Street, as it stands now, it's a 1700 square foot vacant lot, it's next to a park in the East Boston Section of Boston. The gross square footage of the building is 4,546 square feet, the unit breakdown, unit one is the larger unit, it goes into a garden level on the bottom floor, at 1,558 square feet, it's a three bedroom, two bath unit. Unit two and three are similar in size, there are two bed one bath units, the second unit being 950 square feet, and the third floor unit, 985 square feet. For the violations, the violations that were triggered, the minimum lot size for this area, we would require additional 3,000 square feet. Other violations were also FAR, required is 1.0, we're at 2.67, minimum side yard is 2.5, we have three, which we meet on one side, but zero on the other. Minimum rear yard required is 30, and we are at five feet, and the parking is actually one per unit is required, we do not have any parking. We don't have any parking, which is common in that area of Meridian Street, if you look at the surrounding map. We did get the support. It was we could be part of the solution, a part of the problem, right? The grading of that area, it would drive up the height of the building, so the community really wanted us to keep with the look and historic integrity of that area, which we agreed to, we did get the support of the Eagle Hill Civic Association, and we did have an butter's meeting that went well as well. Okay, thank you, that's it, the question. And dissipated the questions, how do the plans look, Mr. Pizani? Drunk dramatic, right? Any questions from the board? I'm a four, when was it, I don't know, I think you made your elevation, right? That's correct, that's a time-out to be fair. I'd also like to address the building code issues, don't you? The multiple guillings and number of exits and company has been... I'm sorry, did we have a building code issue on this one? Yes. There were two, two, this was originally a four unit proposal, so it actually came down, but there were two building code violations that James Francois went on, we did not, we did not appeal, but they were actually worked out, so. Right, we only have zoning before us. Correct, because I believe they were worked out. Yeah, that's what we were addressing, is that I thought you would listen to them, but we've been working with Lisa Han, who was planning to do an ISD to resolve those issues. So they're not put to be, they won't be in the original application. There was a state of the application before you, that we had the arrest issue, an assigned YAHN issue that we resolved. So I've resolved, okay, is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, my name is Sharon, I'm members of the World Quality Career from the Office of Naval Services. We would like to go go and break our support. We all said in about as many, there was no opposition during the about as meeting, and after going back a couple of times to the Eagle Hill City Council, she mentioned they reduced the size of the units, and also they were asked to maintain the historical design of that area in East Boston. Thank you. Thank you. This is to my right to answer your question. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, a little quick question. There is no parking. I know that it seems that everyone in the community is supporting this, but is there something that we can hang our hats on in terms of mitigating the impact of zero parking place? Around the corner is the Umana School, so it is open to all residents to park in, which is common in that area. It's right, literally right, walking distance of two minutes across the way, and border street, which is the abutting street, is basically commercial, so at night there's plenty of parking to walk to. Thank you. Motion to accept with BIRA design review. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries, good luck. Calling an XK is calling B-O-A-5-8-5-3-0267-Caudage Street. This is to change our country to a three-family residential and full-in-series renovation and replace existing red decks with new addition. Violations, Article 53, Section 9. Additional dwelling unit, insufficient additional law at area for each additional dwelling unit, a thousand square feet. Article 53, Section 9. A new rare addition exceeds Floody Air Asia of 1.0. Article 53, Section 9, additional dwelling unit, insufficient open space, Bird Dwelling Unit, to dream how to square feet. Article 53, Section 9, new rare addition, insufficient side yard, is 2.5 feet. Article 53, Section 9, new rare addition, and insufficient area yard, 40 feet. Article 53, Section 56, additional dwelling unit, insufficient off-street parking at 1.0. Name and address further, I could please. Sure. Tony Maureen's Cotino from Richard Lins's office, 1216 Bennington Street, East Boston, and with me is Patrick Butler from RGE Realty. This proposal is to actually renovate the existing. It's already an existing three unit building. The building jacket had it listed as a store, so we had today to legalize it. My clients brought the property a year ago, and they plan to enclose the rare decks to add some additional floor area for each of the units. The three units are gonna be between 565 to 750 square feet, one in two better units, and the project is intended to be marketed as condominiums. With that, I'd like to just add that the surrounding area does consist of mostly three family buildings, and a three family is allowed as a bright. There will be also a complete life safety update to the building, including sprinklers and the like. So, I'm looking at this street view here, which is the parcel that you're talking about, the one towards the left. Which page, Madam Chair? This is the Google Street View. Let's go over there. Yes, the one in the middle. Okay. And how do the plants look with the designing? The larger effort, what are the square feet for the units? The E-Mrainagen Square footage with the proposed addition from 565 to 750 square feet. And the parking requirement is a one to one. But as mentioned, this has been pre-existing, so we're not really changing any footprint or anything like that. And the additional dwelling unit has been there for quite some time. Have tax has been paid in the justice reform? Yes, they have actually. Okay. And the Jeffries Point Namehood Association has voted to approve this matter. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Sorry, just to be clear, is the only thing you're asking for is the legalization of the existing? The legalization of the existing third unit as well as the full area for enclosing the red decks. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Men and chair members of the work planning career from the neighborhood services. There was no opposition to the about as maiden and Jeffries Point Namehood Association voted in favor. The comments from some of the residents that they're happy to see this building being renovated. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the OA57806227 Princeton Street. This is to extend living space into the basement include one bedroom and bathroom to. Violation of the article nine section one. Reconstruction extension of a non-conforming building and article 53 section nine. Floody and ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. I could my tenant to name an address for the record please. Your name and address. My name is Michael Torreske. 27 Princeton Street Trust. Will you be speaking at the table too? Yep. Put your name and address on the record. Gabriel Torreske 27 Princeton Street. You're going to be assisting him? Yep. So please tell us what's being proposed? I have my tenant about six years and they have four kids. So kids it's gross. And they ask me about to edit basement level to additional to first floor apartment. So how many units in this building? Freedunce. This is a three family. Okay. And so you're looking to extend that basement unit into the first floor unit into the basement. Okay. It's about 600 square feet. Mr. Pazani how are the plans? I'm driving. Have a question for you. What is the floor to seal and cut in the basement? About seven and something. Seven and exactly what? Seven and five. Seven and five. Seven five. Okay. The plans are just below that. Yeah. What's on the plans is 84 inches, which is seven feet. Also, what's on the plans are 68 inches, which is five foot eight. Are there any bedrooms proposed in the basement? There is one bedroom proposed in the basement. Just one bedroom in one bathroom. Any possibility of that becoming a future unit? It has a separate means of entrance, although it is connected with the kitchen of the area up above the basement. Correct. Yeah. Your structural engine in droolies drawings. You know, from a design point of view, it makes a reasonable amount of sense. The question is whether or not there is a good color issue. Okay. And they haven't been cited for it. Bill, so I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I don't want to presume a building color or some relief to ISD. I think I can see. Right. Stage. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, with the sort of the work, clinic, or even from neighborhood services during the invite is meeting. He had a lot of support. His neighbors showed up to support him. Also, the tenants, especially the tenant on the first floor. She said that she's been there for more than five years and they're expanded. So in addition to that, the Eagle Hills have a consultation vote and in favor of this proposal. Thanks. Thank you. The owner is the one who gave us the seven. So this is your correct answer. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Yeah, I want to make a motion to grant the zoning relief requested. And while it hasn't been asked for, there is an efficient reason to believe that there may be a building code violation. So therefore, the zoning relief is granted without building code relief. So what that means is that if ISD cites you for building code, change it, don't come back and ask for relief because it won't get granted. And therefore, the zoning would have not gone away because you're kind of hot. There are seconds. Exactly. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Calling B-O-A-57493915, the Monument Avenue. This is to change actually from a one family to a two family. No work to be done is in existing condition. Violations Article 62, Section 29, R-Street Parking is insufficient. In Article 62, Section 8, insufficient, usable open space. Name and address for the record please. Arthur and Cynthia Kohlpack, 15 Monument Avenue, Chow Sound. Please tell us what you're proposing. We're proposing to like to be able to stay in our house that we've occupied since 1979. Our assessing went up 40%. In 2013, we changed from a two to a one because we were informed by assessing that it would be a little bit lower. But in 2016, it went up 40%. And so now we would like to go back. So in case, well, it's not in case it's going to go up again. The assessment's going to go up. And we would like to mediate that by being able to rent. Pardon? So you're proposing to change the occupancy from a one to a two family? Yes. Where is the second unit going to be? It's on the first floor. It's on the first floor. How large is it? It's about 850 squiffy. 850 squiffy. And you have two violations. One is open space, and the second is parking. Is there going to be any parking provided? Yes. We have deeded parking into a parking half a block away that we've actually owned for 30 years. So there's one deeded parking to the building? There's two. There's two. OK. How do the clients look? Mr. Pazani? The clients are accurate. Do you mention the squiff for the age is 350? 850. 350? 850, I think. 350. 850. 850? Yeah. For the first floor unit. Yeah. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Christopher Brain from the neighborhood services. We are in support of 15 Monument Ag. We had an abouters meeting on Monday, April 25th. All those in attendance were in support of Mr. Colpac, and willing to lend their support to anything he needed to keep them in the community. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the school, I ask you to give them a seat. I ask you to run the O.P. So, I ask you to sleep, I ask you to sleep, I ask you to sleep, I ask you to run the O.P. So, anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Hi, Peter. It's now 10.31. I'm going to call for any 10.30 cases for the furls or withdrawals. Are there any cases for 10.30 for withdrawal or deferral? And one more chance on people outside. Are there any deferrals for 10.30? All withdrawals for 10.30. All right. Here are an undergo right back to the 9.30 cases, calling B.O.A. 564-573-39 Eden Street. Eden Street here. Living space for one unit into the ground floor level of the building and install a new roof deck for exclusive unit, use of unit three. The violations article 62, section 8, excessive floor to air ratio, an article 62, section 8, excessive building height. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Chair. Kevin Joyce, 50 Frank on street, Boston, 0211 over the applicant with me is George Joyce, some Kendrick Manage of Kendrick LLC, and a low-dondup from corner architects. This property at 39 Eden Street is currently undergoing a gut renovation and an existing permit. The proposal is to improve that renovation by extending the first floor unit into 460 square feet in the basement and add a 10 by 12 roof deck. The Friday can set two community meetings. The roof deck was originally proposed as 10 by 20. Results of the community meeting was reduced 10 by 12. 10 by 20 to 10 by 12. Yes, ma'am. I have plans here. I don't know if the board is seeing the revised plans as a result of the community meeting. So the first floor unit would be extended by 460 square feet to the basement. That's correct. And are there bedrooms down there? No. Okay. How do the plans? There is a bedroom and a bathroom down there. And second means to be yourself back through the roof, through the roof, a rear door to the back. Okay, how do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? Drunk Geradaprit. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? I'm Peter Johnson, 30-winy Eden Street. And I'm a favorite of this proposal, especially expansion into the basement. Any of the buildings in this neighborhood have guards, basement windows, we can cover the plywood. This would be an improvement in the neighborhood. And did we get your address on the record? 31 Eden Street. Okay. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Christopher Green from neighborhood services. We are in support of 39 Eden Street. We had a community meeting on Wednesday, April 20th. George and his group answered all questions and were receptive to all concerns of the abouters. We have an extensive list of those in support. And although we did receive a petition of opposition, many of those who signed did so before the community meeting and many have sent support of the project, those in opposition have fears of grilling on our roof deck, which will be addressed in condo dots. And that is all. Thank you. Okay, I'm here in support of the committee. I'm going to just one red in support of the board guys and they worked out that move. Okay. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to accept the plans with BRA desire review. Oh, I'm sorry, are you in opposition? I am. Oh, please, forgive me. Go. Go. On 41 Eden Street, which is the director of butter, and I am opposing Mr. George's. Can you please tell us why? It was deck is a concern for us mainly because of the security and safety of it. And we have seven rubber roofs all connecting. And nobody has a deck up there. And years ago, all of those owners agreed not to have roof decks. We're concerned about safety. We're concerned about grills being put up there. We're concerned about smoking and throwing the butt. And as you know in South Boston last week, there was a terrible fire. We've somebody smoking on the 3rd floor roof deck. And we don't want to have that issue. We've also had issues with people running from deck to deck, tenants or residents. And I don't want to be patching my roof. My neighbors don't want to be patching their roof anymore. And in terms of the lower level unit, we want a structural engineer in the looking at the foundation. He's already done digging outside along the exterior. And there's been no structural engineer to look at that. And my foundation abuts is. And so that's a major concern for me. OK. And how many buildings were there that are connected? Seven. Seven buildings. It's outside. OK. Thank you. Is anybody else here in opposition? Response from Mo? On the fire issue, I probably was being fully sprinkled. We've also put strongly in the condo docs that restrict the roof deck, prohibit bills on the roof deck in the way that we do the roof deck. They've been a walkway going out to the security. Basically security plus a rod, I and a rod, I engage. They've put on the roof deck, which was all as a result of going through the community process. This is the first. If this hasn't been built, has it? No. OK. This is the first we've heard of the structural issues, but we do have a licensed person on the side. We're not digging. The basement is, the basement was used as living space pride. The buildings have been abandoned for about seven years or not by the seven years. The residence of the basic area was part of the looking space before. We're not digging down, putting down in this slab, or excavating inside at all. There's a nine foot high ceilings in the basement right now. And with speed level windows also. So again, windows in the back. So we're not touching the integrity of the foundation, or even the slashes there. We have a lot of support from director Barat and the right side, and the other next to us. We just addressed the fire safety issues that were brought up by bringing, by including, language in the counter documents prohibiting grills, charcoal grills, gas grills, whatever. And again, this is only for the third floor unit, not for the unit. So we're just the size. It was very limited. Thank you. So in the back, you wanted to put voice your opposition to? My name is Mark Donhue. I own 43 straight at a box, Kerry Campbell's buildings. My concern was rooftop deck. It seems like the violations on rooftop decks, even though there are laws against open grilling and cooking. It seems like there's a lot of violations. Friends of mine just lost their condo due to a situation like that itself, Boston. So it's really a safety situation for our buildings. Thank you. Given the testimony, may I have a motion, please? I'll continue my motion, which was to accept the proposal with BRA Design Review. And also to work out the, you know, the stations with the abutters. Exactly. Yeah, about the roof deck, yeah. OK. Is there a second? No second, I go ahead. All those in favor? Aye. How many? Any opposed? Yeah, I'm opposed because of the roof deck. I'm against the roof deck. OK. Motion carries. Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling BOA 52886 100 Federal Street. This project is an attached addition to a partial interior renovation of an existing building and consists of the following elements. The construction of approximately 27,500 cross-square feet ground level with a small methane level and closed addition connected to an existing building on the Congress Street side. And as what now is an open-air plaza called the pavilion. The conversion of the approximately 59,000 500 cross-square feet below grade basement, the one level area for office and amenity space for parking for tenants of the building. Violations, Article 21, Section 1. Setback of parapet is insufficient on Congress Street. Article 21, Section 1, setback of parapet is insufficient on Franklin Street. Article 21, Section 1, the setback of the parapet is insufficient on Matthew Street. Article 6, Section 6, dash 3a. Additional conditions required for approval of parking facilities. Article 15, Section 1. Floorier ratio is excessive. Article 49a, dash 5 with a greenway overlay. ATM uses conditional. Article 49a, the greenway overlay. Takeout restaurant is conditional. And Article 7, Section 4. Other conditions necessary as protection. Article 8, Section 7. Item 36a, takeout of a restaurant is conditional. And Article 8, Section 7. Item 59, parking garage is a conditional use. Name and address for the record please. Yes, Jennifer Schultz, permitting council for applicant Guggenpropter, 53 State Street, Boston. George Needs, project manager, Boston properties, 800 Boston Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Also with us today is Michael Cantalupa, Boston properties, and the vice president. Good morning, Derek Johnson, Brookings and Will. Can you, the team speak up please? Good morning. That's just recording. It's not amplified. Good morning, Derek Johnson, Brookings and Will Architects, 225 Franklin Street, Boston. State Department for the age of eight, mine is not amplified. State Department for the age of eight. David Black, I've seen you in a while. Good evening, all right. Yes. So please tell us what's being proposed. Yes, good morning. We are seeking zoning relief in order to construct a ground level glass and closed pavilion addition that will be attached to the existing high rise office building located at 100 federal street in downtown. The pavilion addition is intended to revitalize the underused plaza area that fronts Congress Street at present. And also seeking relief to convert existing basement level space into additional parking solely to serve the tenants of the building who are three of the largest financial services companies in Boston. The pavilion addition is intended to provide a date and night civic amenity for the downtown community, including food service, retail, gathering space, and the opportunity for evening, private or public events. And should be seen as a, we hope, year round, whether protected extension of post office square that sits kitty corner two, where the pavilion will be cited. The parking conversion is intended to partially ameliorate the parking deficit, which is in the building that post construction will still only have approximately half of the parking spaces that BTD guidelines recommend for building this size. ISD turned us down as you heard for FAR, Parapet, setbacks, and conditional use permits for the ATM and take out restaurants that will be located in the pavilion as well as the parking in the basement. And for the last approximately eight months, we've been working with the BRA and BCDC in order to create a project that matches the urban vision for the downtown area. And we are hoping that we will be creating a valuable civic amenity for the downtown community. Thank you. OK. So please tell us, so the ATM use is conditional, as is the take out. Yes. Tell us exactly what take out you're proposing. Do you have vendors in place? We don't have any vendors confirmed at this point. However, it will be a quick serve type restaurant used providing breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And then there's also a unit for a full serve restaurant that will again be providing lunch and dinner services. OK. And how many parking spaces in the basement? So today we have 205 spaces. We'll be looking to add an incremental 85 spaces, which will get us to 290 spaces. 420. 90. OK. How do the plans look, Mr. Bazzani? Dries are very nice. You know, and generally, I'm just going to make the statement is that we do not give people pocket cases with take out just so that you know that. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Denny Chiang, we're his office of neighborhood services, we're going to go on a record and support. The advocate has the support of the downtown community and the neighborhood groups. Thanks. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, John O'Recker from Council Bill Linhans office, we'd like to run record and strong support. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Chris Tracy, senior project manager, Boston Media Development Authority. Although this was not subject to small project review, given the square footage, we decided to have a public meeting that we publicly advertised. Although the meeting was sparsely attended, those who attended were in full support. The VRA is fully supportive. And Chair, members of the board, minor veterans, representative of the carpenter's union, we'd like to go on record and support. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Walker, electrical workers, local 103, and I'd like to speak and try to put it also. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Doug Meyer from the downtown Boston Business Improvement District. The bid has been in support of this project since inception. A few days ago, I mailed a hard copy support letter to your attention, however, if it got lost, the mail doesn't arrive yet, I'm going to reach some again to you. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? My motion would be to approve this with continued VRA design view and your wherever we'll be doing the take-out will be coming back to a five-footed take-out. There's all those in favor. Bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling VOA568368109 Chestnut Street. This is to extend living space by converting existing basement space to new bedroom and bathroom for unit one. Violations article 13, section 13-1. The FAR exceeds a maximum allowed. Name and address for the record please. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. My business address is 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. Please tell us what's being proposed. Yes, my client has a garden level condominium in this building. The building recently redid their mechanical systems and there's a surplus of space, right, adjacent to his unit. And we were looking for permission to use that as part of the unit to create one more bedroom. And what's the square footage? Existing unit is just about 1,000 square feet in it would go up to 1229 square feet. Okay. And what's the floor to ceiling height? We have eight feet. How do the plans look this time? The lines are at the, are you moving the kitchen to the basement over the marble? It's already there. The only changes the bedroom and a bathroom. Yes. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? I'm Chair, members of the board. Jake Westville, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go and record and support. We've received a letter of support from the Beacon Elcific Association and from others who live in the building. I'm going to buy. Thank you. Any further here now? Position. Mayor, have a motion please. Force for approval. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A 560197234 Beacon Street. This is a demo in existing garage at the rear of the building and reconstruct. The garage is to be reconstructed on the same footprint. Violation is Article 20 Section 2. Maximum percentage of the rear yard occupied by an accessory building is excessive. Article 20 Section 4, rear yard is insufficient. And Article 32, Section 6, groundwater, conservation, overlay, district applicability. Name and address further, I can please. Good morning, Dennis. Good morning, Attorney. My term with Coltie and Miller representing the property owner's actual condominium building by and house moves the property managers with us. We have Tethelukin, and his team at Project Architect, and Larry Hayes, who is the project engineer. Good morning. Please stop the screen proposed. Yes, ma'am. The structure in question is a dilapidated, really unsafe, connected garage to this building at the corner of Beacon and Dartmouth Street on the river side. So it's at a butts back street. And the garage is in very, very bad shape, literally falling apart. The initial desire of the ownership of the building was to completely demolish and rebuild. The architectural commission preferred that we keep as much of it as possible and rebuild the remainder. So one actual exterior wall will remain. The rest will be rebuilt on the same footprint. This is an accessory garage to that building, which has existed for many years. And it's literally kind of sinking into the ground in some places. So in preparation for coming before you, we met with the neighborhood association of the back band, almost your Castellani's here. We had in a butters meeting on site, and almost a wessels here. And we've had no objections. I would point out one twist, if you will, which is on the groundwater trust, on the groundwater citation. We would be asking the board to hold your vote, if you will, on that matter. We're still in discussions. I think the groundwater trust is represented here and they're fully in support of this, but obviously they can be heard on that. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm Ms. of the board, Christian Simonelli, groundwater trust. And I do request the whole for signature. There was some discussion with the applicant on the trigger of this project that for G-Cod, but they are committed to meeting standards. So I just request the whole of the city. Okay. How did the plans look, Mr. Pesani? Thank you. Very nice. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jacob Westle, Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services, we'd like to go and record and support as the applicant mentioned. We held non-side-of-butters meeting and heard no objections, and they met with the Neighborhood Association in the back bay. Thank you. The Castellan is speaking for the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. We witness our very conservative about any dementia relief in the historic district. We see as underlying protections of the district. But in this instance, we believe that ISD is aired in their citations under the NGRAW water. For 50 years, ISD has treated the Boston Street, the Strasse Street side of Beacon Street is through the streets. And not under the record zone, and with that definition, other ground water, there's no violation. Thank you. Anybody who speak in opposition, Mayor have a motion, please. Motion to grant the zoning relief requested, continue the design of your factory PRF. We would have BBAC, it's already been a prison scene. With the provider that we will hold our signature and submission around the world. Thank you. Senator. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. May 5, 7, 8, 7, 7, 2, 6, 2, 15 to 2, 17, West Viff. This is a vacant lot, new construction of two attached townhouses, three stories high with parking garage under each unit. This is Woodframe construction, all new systems. Violations, Article 13, Section 13-1. In sufficient lot size, Article 13, Section 13-1. It's in sufficient additional lot area per unit. Article 13, Section 13-1. Access to fluidity and ratio. Article 13, Section 13-1. In sufficient usable open space, driveway is excluded. And Article 13, Section 13-1. In sufficient lot with 50 feet with is required because the one and two row house and one of group of three more houses is sharing a common potty wall and one of both sides of the lot lines. Amen, address further, I can please. Good morning, Madam Chair and Mayor, Mr. Board, my name is George Baran, I'm the attorney with the business address of 350 Westbrook, when South Boston. I'm joined by Nile Sudfin, project architect of 197 eighth street in Charlestown. Madam Chair, members, this is a fairly simple infill construction. This is an 861 square foot wall for which is being proposed to family dwelling. These would be semi-attached side-by-side townhouse style units. The relevant zoning district is H-150. We have a violation for the minimum lot size in this district for the first and second units. An FAR violation, the FAR maximum here is of course one. This project would come in at an FAR of 1.74. These would be two, two, two three bedroom units. I'm sorry, 1,545 square feet each. The building, because of the site grade, is actually several feet lower in the front as it presents to West Fist Street, then in the rear. Maximum building, high on West Fist Street, to the roof line below the parapet is approximately 36 feet. The lot frontage here is 36 feet, which is typical or actually somewhat large for the neighborhood, although it doesn't meet the frontage requirements under the code. The harming spaces are accessed from garage doors in the rear of the building. Access to the rear of the lot is provided by a lot. Fronting on Bowen Street that my client also owns. In addition to the lot of the rear, which my client owns has one face is the site. He also owns what is currently a single family dwelling at 213 West Fist Street, so is his own butter. My client is his own butter, and both the right side and the rear. This point, I don't think there's any questions. Yes, sorry. So will this access be deeded? Will it be registered? Yes, so as an aside, there will be another project coming before this board. We are setting up a community meeting for the land in back, which is the site of what a proposed three family dwelling, and that's going to have a shared driveway once this project that's presently before the border, now before the board, and the project that is coming up are in fact completed if both are approved. There'll be a shared driveway between the two properties, and also for that matter, the 213 West Fist Street property. So will these be combined law to they'll still maintain separate laws, but they'll be still deep. Correct, separate laws and they'll be cross-easants between them. So these are three separate projects. Correct. Common ownership. Correct. And the total number of units being added are six. Total number for all three for sites. The single family will be a conversion to a two. This is a new two family and a three family in the rear, for a total of seven units over the existing one, so six units will be added. Total square furniture. Well under $15,000. Well under $20,000. OK, thank you. Was weather structures on these lots before, or did the empty lots all hold? As long as I remember, Mr. Rillick, historically, there may have been. Did we get addresses assigned tiles for this site? Yes, we did. I think to answer your question, the only current structure on this entire site of the combined three parcels is the one located at 213 West Fist Street, which you can see. It's this one. So on the left side of the site, it is the existing one family house there. Right. I'm looking at building that. But to the 250, who's having the inside? No, certainly. They can have the property. Apparently not, because ISD assigned us that street address, there would have been an ISD street address if there had been a building there. So we assume not. Any other questions? Would you address the roof deck issue, please? The building will have two roof decks, one exclusive to each unit. The deck should be 120 square feet in total. Access is by roof hatch in each case. But by roof hatch, not by head. That's a trick to correct. I don't, is that correct, Miles? I don't see a... This wheel, we will agree to do it as a roof hatch. Sure, Mr. Besson. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support. We did hold in a butters meeting on site about this proposal and it was positively received. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellorick from Council Bill Nian's office would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz, on behalf of City Councilor our large micrifflary, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval, be our executive. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set. Thank you. Calling B-O-A576-10069, Rare Boston Street. Assistant to build a new five level addition to an existing hotel, the Holiday Inn Express, at 69 Boston Street in Dorchester. This will add 60 new rooms to an existing hotel. First floor will have breakfast lounge, area meeting rooms. Violations, article nine, section one. Extension of a non-conforming use is conditional. Article 65, section 41. Our street loading requirement is insufficient. Article 65, section 16, height is excessive. Name an address for the record, please. Hello. Good morning. My name is John Slater. I'm with the firm of Sharon and Lajian Invastin. I'm one of my federal street representatives, the project proponent. Hi, my name is Beth Sherer. I'm the vice president of JTEN Hotel Management, and I'm here representing the project. Thank you. So this is an extension of a non-conforming use. Can you speak to the off street loading requirements, please? Sure, the, as it was said at the beginning, just for a second, say this is a, there's an existing hotel there now, only in Express and Sweets. And this is a five-story expansion to connect, which will be connected directly to the floors of the line. That's the reason for the eye variance so that the floor is going to be aligned. And so the off street loading and deliveries will be through the existing space in the, in the existing hotel. Okay. How did the plans look, as I said? Our director, is there any question? As a result of the increasing rooms. There will be additional parking spaces added. Oh, actually. The 19 will go from 162 to 181 spaces. And what does the room count go to? It goes to 174. And so you have 162 spaces here, right? 181. 181 spaces. There are 162 there now. It will be 19 to add in to get to 181. And Ms. Pazani, the plans do show the loading accommodated in the current structure. Yes, it does. Okay. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record in support of this proposal and ask for a continued BRA design review. I would also like to note there is a direct butter here who has expressed a hope that the proponent will continue to work with him throughout the process. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jill McGecker and City Council of Frank Baker's Office, we'd like to thank you for your support. Please as Vice President Ta press conference吣o Yang-Jagged. As wijge's office, we'd like to echo the sentiments and the Mayor's office. Madam Chair, members of the board, who areatisfied with your SERGE speech? Is recommendations all in does is consider the road at risk of vieläging staff at Ridge72? Turn them into members that go towards the left of the ban and address the setting. One where the lawyer will be named топan high five. As we go into clamp district Reporting. I was just a bit nervous because the road is getting halves lead. I am 66. Thank you. Chair, I'm Mr. Warmer, I'm better at representing the Carpenters' Genie, we'd like to go and record and support with you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Madam Chair, my name is Lab Foreign. I own the Fortress facility. I'm a butter to the project. I am not per se in opposition to this project. The reason is, I don't know anything about it. I've been entirely left out of the loop. I'm rather stunned that I've been left out of the loop. And I know that there's an appeal process that's available to me once the documents are signed, it feels as approved today. And I just, I'm hopeful that the developer is very interested and very helpful in making me aware of what's going on, so that I know what's going on around me, and then we can probably come to a happy resolution, but I certainly want to know what's going on next to my building. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval, the hour-exign view. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You've heard it, so I'm hoping you're going to be in touch with the butter so that everything proceeds smoothly. Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Calling VOA-585-583-197-199-N Street. This is an addition to the second and third floor, two small rooms in a bathroom supported by rear columns and a fence in the rear yard. Violation is article 15, section 1. The floor to the ratio is excessive. Article 19, section 1. Required radio ad setback. The fence on only six feet is insufficient. Article 20, section 1. Required radio ad setback. Fence only at six feet is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. I'm Patrick Bajoni, and the owner and applicant. Please tell us what's being proposed. Morning Madam Chair, may I please subordinate. We have a modest edition. Not visible from end street. These two rooms into the rear yard on the second and third floor. The violation of F8 related to the structure itself is floor area ratio. The other two dimensional violations are exclusively related to the fence. It's an eight foot fence in the rear yard and it's in three feet of the, because the law is 73 feet. The first 70 feet of the fence are excluded under the base code exception for age districts. This is an eight foot fence? It is an eight foot fence man Chair. And six foot is allowed as a right. Correct. So you're requesting two things in essence here. Firstly, the addition, the two room addition. Yes. Which is how many square feet are told? 675 square feet. It brings it to an FAR of about two, which is consistent with the neighborhood. It's consistent with the proposed zoning. And I believe the BRA just completed a study for self-boss because that's the first area to be rezoned. The average is approximately 1.97 FAR as it stands. So it would be consistent with the neighborhood. Okay. Tell us about that fence then. So again, the fence is eight feet. In the first, only the last three feet of the fence in the rear yard of the fence would be effect zoning here today. And the reason for that is because again, the first 70 feet exclusion for side yard violation. The reason that the fence is eight feet instead of the allowable six feet is because in the rear yard, it slopes considerably back for drainage purposes. So it's at least between 20 and in some cases 30 inches below the surrounding neighbors. So to main some continuity between the fence heights, we have adjusted for that with an eight foot fence. And so is that just a rear yard fence or? It's eight. It'll be consistent all the way through. All the way around. Yeah. So the first, what's appealable today is the last three feet of the side yard and the rear yard section. The fence is appealable, right? Because it's okay. Is any questions from the board? There's no citations for the eight foot fence. There is. It's the bottom two, Mr. Chair. It's the side yard. It's the bottom of the side yard. The side yard and rear yard. In parentheses, I think it says fence. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and strong support. We did hold an on-site abouters meeting and there was no opposition expressed. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, from Council Bill Linney in its office, we'd like to go on record and strong support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz, on behalf of the City Council, our large micaflarity. We'd like to go on record and strong support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Mayor of a motion, please? Motion to. Except with BRA Design Review. Madam Chair, if I may remove the design review provision, it's not visible from end stream. And neither is the addition. Correct. So. I'll post my motion to accept that. So it's a straight approval. Just a statement. With a straight approval, yep. Okay, is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set. Thank you. We'll go back to the 10-30 cases. Whether any deferrals or withdrawals from the people that may have been outside. If there are, address please. 61-63, Dustin Street. Brighton. For the record calling, BRA-584-990, 61-63, Dustin Street. Name and address for the record, please. More and require 61 Dustin Street Brighton. Max. Please tell us what you're requesting. I'm requesting deferral until the end of July preferably. Tell us why. The community meeting that was to take place, has not taken place. So things are not in place to proceed with adhering. Motion for deferral. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. A date please. You'll have a date of July 26. July 26. Yes. We had one case that was still outstanding. Yes, they are here now. Do you want to see the break now? We will take a 10-minute break. So please wait. We need this so that the technical staff in the back can ensure that everything is being live streamed appropriately.