 you you Might I'm sure we'll try the former, Ivo. Thank you. Let's do a little call Mr. rigidon Bernadier. Thank you, Mr. Volencia President Biden, she has a bombshell. Mr. Langham. President. Mr. Collins. President. Ms. Olivier. President. Ms. Pannato. President? All right. The floor here is Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll continue with the red discussions scheduled for 11.30 a.m. And we'll start off with two companion cases. Case B-O-A-152-1952 with the address of 259-R to 259-RF Market Street. Along with that, we have case B-O-A-152-1950 with the address of 259-RF. And we'll continue with two companion cases. We'll continue with two companion cases. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Matt Equal with what's your tilt on behalf of the applicant. With me, Eric Zacherson from Context, the Project Architect. We're here this afternoon seeking approvals to subdivide the existing parcel at 257 Market Street, raise the existing rear garage, and erect four new townhome units for home ownership on the newly created lot. Currently there exists a two-family dwelling, fronting on Market Street on approximately at 16,700 square foot lot. The lot itself currently is very unique in nature as it's an extremely deep lot, as you can see there from the site plan. It's approximately 255 feet deep from Market Street back to its rear setback currently. As mentioned, we're proposing to subdivide the property so the existing two-family building, as you can see on the far right of the plan there, will remain on just under a 6,000-square foot lot, and the proposed townhouses will be on the rear lot containing just under 11,000 square feet. The project I've designed in the shape of the lot allows us to maintain that existing street-scape on Market Street, and as mentioned, we'll keep that two-family as is and provides ample room for the proposed structure as well as storage of materials and vehicles during construction. You can see on the screen there again on the far right the existing two-family structure, which will have three dedicated parking spaces and then the four townhouses, which will each have two parking spaces on the interior and one bonus visitor space. In terms of the full floor plans for the townhouse units, because they're separate townhouses, they will have individual entries as well as two interior parking spaces per unit and an office on the first floor. The second floor will have a kitchen living room set up with one bathroom, excuse me, one and a half bathrooms and one bedroom, and on the third floor will have two bedrooms and one bathroom as well as small front and rear decks to provide a little private open space. The third floor, as you'll see, when we get down to the floor plans, does have a five-foot front pullback as well as an eight-foot rear pullback. We did that to mitigate and reduce any massing on the third floor. We kind of tucked that third floor in above the first two floors below. This project did go through a very robust community process and did result in a number of changes to what you're seeing today. We reduced the unit count originally from seven to four. We increased the parking ratio from one to one to two point two-five to one, which we're at right now. That was very important to the community and we're actually able to increase that parking ratio without really increasing the impervious surfaces. As mentioned, we have two parking spaces on the interior, an accurate level of each townhouse unit. Then you can see there kind of on the bottom left, we have one additional visitor space, which will be permeable paver. That won't be reducing the pervious count at all. We also eliminated previously proposed roof decks. We heard loud and clear from the abutters. They didn't want that, so we removed those. We redesigned the interior layouts of the townhouses to make them more family friendly with the one bedroom on the second floor and two on the third as currently constituted. We are able to increase the rear and side setbacks to give a little bit more relief to abutters and develop a full landscape plan, including open space for the residents as well as trees and plantings around the perimeter of the lot to provide a natural buffering to abutters as well as those permeable pavers. This is a very important area for the residents to help with stormwater management. Through these changes, we did eliminate previous violations cited for height and feet side yard setback and parking. Through this process, we were able to obtain and submit letters of support for the proposal, including three from direct abutters, and receive the recommendation of approval of the design review from the PTA based on these changes. With that, I'll happily pause and take any questions the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? In back, can you talk about how fine truck access would work? Absolutely, Mr. Nato. So on the lower portion of your screen there, we have a 20-foot wide access point. So that'll be for obviously the vehicles at each townhouse to get back there, and the 20 feet is required per code for fire trucks to access it. So we'll have about a 14-foot driveway, and then we'll have three feet on either side, which will not contain any obstruction. So it'll be a 20-foot wide clear path for fire trucks to go from market street all the way to the rear of the proposed townhouses. And then they would have to back out as the idea? Correct, yes. You're required to have the 20 feet. Obviously, if you can have a turnaround, all the better, but here on this site with only 60 feet of frontage, we really couldn't provide that, but we do provide the 20 feet is required. Other questions from the board or from this panato? No, not for me, thanks. Okay. Hearing none, we have public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, seeing Jocelyn with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, ONS has hosted two of letters meeting regarding this proposal, and most recently on December 12 of last year. At that meeting, a letter has had a number of concerns regarding parking, size, traffic, density, and emergency vehicle access. This applicant also presented to the Brighton-Austin Improvement Association, the act of civic group in this area, which voted to abstain and not take a position on the proposal. Our office has received and ordered to the board for letters of support and three letters of opposition. It is our understanding that the proponent has engaged in discussions with direct or butters and has made a number of change to their proposal as a result of those discussions. With that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Okay, we have three last names. Good. Jen and Tim? Hi. We're Jen and Tim. We're doing the letters on set 24 Sanderson Place and we support the development because we feel we're bringing a tractor and housing and families to the neighborhood. We've worked closely with the developer who's been very, very attentive, very sensitive to our concerns and others and has been very responsive to those concerns. It has been open to meeting with other neighbors on our street and taking our concerns seriously and they're also pretty responsive to decision-unifications. So we've been happy. What do we see? Thank you. Thank you. And the Joshua and the Dejra? Hi, it's me, and Joshua Harrison. I'm going to do better on the 40 Ryan Red. I guess I appreciate the improvement with the roof deck, which is something that is previously very very good. But I still think that it's kind of out of proportion with the size of the site just having walked around it. And I also just worry about removing trees and adding, I guess you guys call, pervious surfaces. We just did this process with the park, and there would be, you know, we made sure it wasn't ash filter, if it wasn't, I guess, another paved surface. And it's just this proliferation of non-green spaces. So just like what's the plan to preserve the trees and also to just make sure the thing isn't moving over this block. Because if you look, there's, you know, there's kind of a grade in the block that goes down. And just worry that these third floors, we kind of looming over us. And like, you know, we're really assuming that we have trees and green space we're going to have, like, people looking down on us. So just thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, the Dejra? There you go. All right. Just trying to unmute. Come on, let's do it. Okay. As trusted as my family, my family, my family. I've been the last meeting with the Interconstruction Group 12 to 14 months from start to foundation. This is a hardship not within the buttons, but on the community at large, given that Market Street is a major street that is already congested. There has been considerable neighborhood objection from the buttons. New more signatures have been obtained. My number one concern having a mother whose 86 years old living on the road is that ambulance were fire truck being able to get in and get to the house on time. If you sit out on Market Street, I would on September and heavy duty traffic at 5 o'clock. You don't know when it's going to happen, but seconds count. Emergency response time. Emergency is extremely congested. Constructed during activity would add significantly to the traffic congestion and adversely affect emergency vehicle response time. This is the utmost concern. Trees don't matter to me. It's survival time. I think the city should be concerned about safety number one. Secondarily, rad activity. We have a big problem with this. The city has done nothing for this. Congestion opposing. Fire hasn't. As someone who was next door to a house that was on fire, when you have a house on fire next door and seconds count, you would understand what it's like to almost lose stuff out of your house. The city and character overcrowding and building. The height and gradual reducing the roof text. That doesn't really affect us on the overall aspect of the character of the house adding more. You're trying to put too much into a very small space. Parking. Not enough parking. Construction workers and vehicles were reduced the number of on-screen parking. Health concerns. Dust and pollution will add room. The building height would impact the surrounding residents and restrict sunlight to dry. This would cause legally cognizant of harm and deteriorate their existing residents' quality of life. Accessibility. This should be the number one concern for Boston. There are numerous people who have wheelchairs, blinds, who go up and down that street. If you look on a garbage day, what happens? There are always bins around there. No one can hide. The garbage people just, they've thrown back in the middle of the way. They don't care. There's kids who have to walk to school to St. Column Hills and to public schools. There is no consideration for anyone who has a healing health. And that should be a real concern, especially with Michelle, who's talking about accessibility. Ma'am, can you wrap up what we have here? I have heard. I have seen every single thing in front of the wall approved today. I would like to see some of the participants to be emergency response time. Because if something was to happen, we were recording of this and everyone who has approved everything will be accountable. We requested, must this be the night? I'm not sure I have no additional vice cats. Can the applicant respond to the first? I can't hold on. I didn't get a chance to talk. I have three. My hand was raised. I'm going to see you at the end. Hi. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Lisa Redding. I'm in a butter that lives at one keen and road with my husband. I've lived there with him for the past 21 years. I'm in a strong opposition to this proposed construction, which is directly behind our single family home and others in keen and in Ryan and Rose. The newest proposal of FOUR, yes, it's been reduced. Now FOUR, the last proposal was five. FOUR, three stories tall townhouses, is not keeping with the single family and two family homes of this community of Brighton. And it's causing real concern for safety and parking. Those are the two issues I'd like to discuss. Again, though the proposal has reduced to FOUR townhouses instead of five, they're a glaring problem still with this proposal. First, the fact is that the proposal has not actually decreased the lock size. And the plans for this construction have actually increased the number of residents that each townhouse can accommodate. So the last proposal of five townhouses had three bedrooms in each. And the ground floor was originally called an office slash guest bedroom. So we'll call it like it is a bedroom. So five townhouses had three bedrooms. Now it is four townhouses with four bedrooms. So that has significantly increased the number of people who can live in each unit. So because of that, the increase in the addition of garage space that was added is not adequate parking any more for the residents. And potentially up to eight people per unit. This is a two densely populated backyard space in this community of Brighton. It would significantly compound an already difficult on street parking situation in this part of Brighton. Such a structure packed into this two small space continues to create a significant safety concern in this neighborhood. The only vehicle access, as you have mentioned, is the driveway. That one driveway, not a street, okay, is now 20 feet. So it can, a fire truck can fit on that 20 feet. But how do they actually make the turn into that driveway from market street? The driveway is now a new point because unless you eliminate parking spaces on market street, that fire truck will not be able to make the turn from market street into that driveway. This poses a huge risk for the people in property that proposed construction. Over the past 21 years, I've witnessed an increasing congestion. As Deirdre said in the campus community of Brighton, the proposed construction will only exacerbate the conditions of this congestion as well as significantly alter the character of our neighborhood. I strongly oppose this proposal. There are far too many zoning violations and we ask that you not grant relief for these violations. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reasons? I'm sharing a show. I've got a show. Did you put it here down? I'm in the additional waste hands of Cheryl Rosa. Okay. Can we applicant the response to some of those concerns? Sure, Madam Chair. Thank you. Just to go through some of the concerns one by one, but can here in terms of the proposed structures moving over other structures. That is why we specifically hold the structure in on the third floor. We've done a shadow study which shows very limited effect on any other structure. The only shadows go into the backyard of our directive butter and the right who does not have a structure back in the rear. The shadows are not an issue and we've even further decreased that by pulling a structure five feet in the front and eight feet on the left on that third floor. So it operates as a two and a half story building really in terms of the ambulance and emergency responses along Market Street. We know and understand Market Street can be very congested. That is why this site being so unique and having 11,000 square feet in the rear will allow us to fully construct the structures on site with storage materials. Construction vehicles. We have ample room off the street to not cause any additional congestion. This is a typical construction project where we'd be looking to park on the street or tie up the street. We actually have plenty of room off site to handle all that. So although Market Street is congested, we don't anticipate this project increasing that at all. Everything will be done on site. In terms of the red activity we did hear that through the community process and were well aware of it. We would have a full pest control program in place and go through inspection services community sanitation regulations. So we believe this will actually improve that situation. Parking as I mentioned originally and was mentioned by some of the butters was a grave concern when we were at one to one parking residents on keen end and market thought that there would be overflow parking on those street spaces or side street spaces. That's why we're able to increase to over two spaces per unit which far exceeds the 1.75 spaces required per zoning. So we actually have over what's required now in terms of parking in terms of what was mentioned about the actual layout of the unit that was incorrect. We are proposing three better units. We have four townhouses with three bedrooms. That's been the proposal for the last six months that remains the proposal. And finally for the fire trucks accessing the site as we discussed briefly we do have the full 20 feet required and we do have the turning radius to get on site. So we believe we've addressed a lot of these concerns. I understand there's still comments but we've made a lot of changes and believe this project fits within the character. So the section of market street is a mix of single and two families but it also has mixed use with ground floor commercial and apartments above. It has the safer right down the street. It has other condos and apartment buildings so we believe this density is appropriate. Thank you. Thank you. Can the applicant just a question since you reduced it from five to four. That comes with a reduction of like increasing any of your setbacks like did it give open space back or what did. What happened? Yeah. I can address that as part of that effort. We did increase the setbacks the setback on our right side was originally about five feet and is now 12 feet. The setback on the driveway side is 20 feet and has been such the setback on the rear to our property line is about 55 feet. And for the neighbors request we did a analysis and I can tell you that we are about 55 at least 55 feet from any neighbor on the world are building us are building is at least 79 feet from any building on standard someplace and at least 84 feet from a building from a house on secret court. So we were we might only be 12 feet from our property line on one side and 50 feet on the rear. Quite a quite a distance from any neighbor in building housing. Thank you. Mr. Hampton if you're a bill. Could you could you expand on the ppda's recommendation? I would be with us. Mr. Hampton. I really don't sound like it. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have motion. I'll make a motion for approval with the proviso that no building code relief be granted and the pda design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Glanzia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Well. The Collins. I'm going to go and know as well. Ms. Olivia. I'm going to abstain. That's okay. Ms. Paredo. Yes. The chair also votes no. The motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Almost into the night with the previous. Mr. Gasekine. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Glanzia. No. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Olivia. Mr. Langham. Mr. Glanzia. Mr. Lanzia. Mr. Lanzia. Mr. Bannato. The chair votes yes. one moment, Madam Chair. Hold on one second. Yeah, there's an abstention, so I don't, we have not had an abstention before. With an abstention, do you have a six member board? No. No, I don't know. What's that? We had not some amtuk. Yeah. So we do need five voting members to vote or to pass. So at this point, the motion would fail. Madam Chair, if I may interject as we were not made aware of the abstention and a six person board, there is a seven person board, someone abstained, so I don't know. Someone needs to explain what that means. Madam Chair, can you hold on for just two minutes, for me to double check on something? Thank you. Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, can you hold on for a second? Madam Chair, are we waiting for an official decision? Madam Chair, is the first for me as well? Indeed. Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, is the second for me as well? Madam Chair, if it helps at all, This is viewed as a six person board since my client and the team wasn't made aware of that at the outset. We probably would have requested a deferral. Madam Chair. Yes. So, simply like 5D fault, when two people were opposed to the denial without purchase, it would go straight to a denial when it would be able to come back for a year. But would one member who voted no to denial without purchase, would they be able to reconsider their vote and would you if so would you entertain that motion? Okay, so let's back up. We have a whole seven members just to clarify Mr. Echo's question. One person abstained, which we've never had before. So I'd like to know if that's allowed. That's my first question. And then your comment would be, is someone, because right now we have four people supporting this motion, two people not opposed and one person abstaining. So are you asking if one of the nose would become a yes? Yes, so I'm asking if one person who voted no on file without prejudice, if that would, if they would be willing to reconsider their vote to a yes. So then it would go to now that prejudice, otherwise the default would be for denial. Okay, well, that question goes to Mr. Valencia and Ms. Panado. So, I'm just asking, okay, go ahead. To ensure that this project had the opportunity to make improvements and come back to the next few weeks and not after one year, I would change my vote in support of the motion that the opponent made. So my vote for the motion will be yes. Okay, so with that, the motion carries. I'm chair. I'll just ask one more time. The board would consider deferral as I've never experienced this before. And I think we should be ready to the opportunity to have a full seven member board without an extension. I will defer to legal. I asked the legal on that because I do not answer. Okay, you can accept it. I can or cannot. Can. Okay, well, would someone, well, would someone like to make a new motion or would you like this motion to stand? Can I make a motion to deferral? Okay, is there a second on that? There. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is Olivier. Yes. Is Panado. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. The motion carries. Is there a new date? The next available. Madam chair. We can do a date of August 13th, but we can also work with the applicant. Okay. That's one without skin. How does that. Thank you, Madam chair. All right. Next case. Next case. The other way. One five nine. Seven three one two. The address. What's he want to. The applicant and whether represent the president. Please play the case through what? They might be calling on a design here. It's like I go. Thank you. Okay. I'll please you. Madam chair. Members of the board. Attorney Jeff Dregor. Dregor. With the business address of 11 B. In Street here on behalf of Wesley Lung. My client. And what you're looking at is a rendering of a project that was previously approved by this board back in September of 2023 at 21 Golden Street. The board remains exactly the same. It is to change the autopancy from three units to five units renovate the existing dwelling and to erect two three story additions. The change comes in the parking. When we originally presented to the board, we were at nine parking spaces on the site. And we were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. We were at nine parking spaces. This is the last one. One more right here is perfect. was along with PPDA design review was to remove those additional parking spaces leaving us with five board approved the project. Once we reviewed everything we noticed that created a new variance or the need for variance because of a violation. So insufficient parking was now added. We came back to the board to try to get the provides or removed through board final offer to the board. I believe Mrs. Betapurata asked us that note that she wanted to see that now. The green space so we reached out tried to get the process expedited. The mayor's office actually allowed us to go to the subcommittee because it was a minor change that the board had asked for. At the subcommittee we were asked to come to the full board just because of the size of the project to come back to the board. So that's that's what brings us back today. I can pause to answer any questions at the board ma'am. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing that may I have public testimony. Madam Chair members of the board. So you answered with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The office of neighborhood services held a number of letters. Meaning on this proposal the most recent one was on April 5th 2023 where a butters had a number of questions. The applicant answered one of butter expressed opposition based on density and what they felt was the historical character of the home. The applicant met with the Austin Civic Association. Their president should be on the call today to testify as to their stance and just a moment. Our office received and boarded to the board three letters of opposition and we wish to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I do it. Tony. Go ahead. Sorry. Good afternoon, Madam Chair members of the board. Tony to the door representing the Austin Civic Association. We're basically on just to confirm that there have been no changes to the project. Attorney Dragon did a great job of summarizing the history of this project and we could tell from the flyer given that there was no additional vote is meeting that the city considered to say a minor technical collection and then we're quite a little bit off-guard when the subcommittee decided to put it in front of the full committee so we just hit to make just to confirm that the project disuses and as we initially did we defer judgment to the board and we'll do so again. Thank you. I'll go ahead. Anyone else? Sorry Mr. Dragon. Could we just spend through designer you already? It did go in BPD or design if you know it has not been true. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No additional raised head. Any other questions from the board? You're in done. May I have a motion? I'm motion to approve with BPD or design or design. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Ms. Penauddo. Yes. Chair votes just the motion carries. Thank you very much. At this point, would be clear if we at 4 o'clock time frame, if we ask for any withdrawals or deferrals from that time frame? I got to do that, Enzy, for Acedome. Does it, we are requesting the deferral? For what case? What address? Yeah, it's 52 to 54, Glenway 56 to 58, Glenway 1.2, Erie. It's the second and through fourth, I am done on a one-class lap. So, when we had last three cases to be heard at 1 o'clock, you're asking for the first case B.O.A. 160159 with the address of 142 in the street, along with that case B.O.A. 1601654, with the address of 56 to 58, Glenway Street. And finally, case B.O.A. 1601605, with the address of 52 to 54 Glenway Street. That's correct and appreciate the, every time. That's a perfect explanation, Brian. Thank you. Yes. On behalf of ACIDO and the African Community Economic Development of the Wingland, we are working closely with M.O.H. This is a welcome home Boston project. Working closely with M.O.H. and we did have some design changes that resulted in a change in the street address and possibly a change in the violations from our plan review at ISD. So, that's resulting in a request for a deferral until August 13 at the advice on Stephanie Haines. Very much. Next available. Madam Chair, we have a date of August 13th. Would that be acceptable? Mr. Hanzi. Well, I propose that this is sooner than better, but August 13 is acceptable. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to deferral August 18 to the 18 of 13. 13. 13. 13. Okay. Yeah, the second. Second. Mr. Stabbridge. Yes. Mr. Volacea. Yes. Mr. Lengon. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lengon. Yes. Mr. Pinnato. Yes. Mr. Lengon. Yes. Mr. Lengon. Yes. Mr. Lengon. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Here then. Any members? With that, we'll return to the case in schedule for 1130 and move on to case B08153 9699 with the address of 27 along your avenue. If the applicant and with your representative's present will they explain to the bullet points? Hi, my name is Roberto Leon and I'm the architect for the project. So we are requesting a approval for the project. We are converting the three family building to a four family building. And currently the fourth unit is the fourth unit. We have a four-year-old group of people that are working in the basement. That all means this. I can show you the floor plan of the basement here. We've had several meetings with the neighbors and they have a concern about the parking. There was a lack of parking for this additional board unit. And if you go back to the site plan which was the page before that, we are going to provide additional parking on the site so that we are currently complying with the number of parking spaces required for the project. So we've received about 12 signatures from neighbors in support of the project. And we've shown that this is a project that is somewhat similar to the multi-pound housing in this neighborhood. You can see by that graphic right there. Those are the buildings that have four units of one in the neighborhood and the yellow house right there on the left. One of them is our project. So we believe that this is an appropriate change of use for the neighborhood. In addition to the fourth unit, one of the things that we've been required to do is provide a sprinkler system for the building. So we're actually making it a safer structure overall. So that is basically the extent of the project that we have to provide. We would ask that you're moving the change of use and allows the the court unit for the property. You call up the page that says the parking. There seems to be some concern about your tandem parking. Right. So we show five spaces and you know they're all basically in tandem, which is pretty much what is existing there now, but there's an existing driveway and they're all tandem parking spaces. And what we've done is provide parking spaces that comply with the city's parking spaces. But there are currently already five parking spaces in the same configuration. There are three parking spaces in that configuration and what we've done is added two more to basically get us above the threshold of the required five parking spaces for because of that port and unit. So can you just point out numerically which ones are existing? Yes. So that would be one, two, and three are existing and we're adding the spaces for the bottom. Okay. We're going to take down a shed in the back of the property in order to accommodate that. Okay. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? As VTD reviews this, I don't think we typically see tandem spaces. So to answer your question from on Ms. Panado, we received recommendations but not on this from BTP. Yeah, I was asking the applicant as he met with VTD on this parking configuration. No, we have not been asked to be with VTD. Yeah. We don't typically see this and improve this. This is a residential project that, you know, as I mentioned, the three tandem parking spaces are all of these. Mr. Leon, I was so glad that your parking cars can be driving with the two parking spots or in the back, close to the garage, right? As a map. So there's three parking spaces along the driveway, correct? And then the back, the back of the property, the root way is it uses individual parking spots for the units. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and even with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This and the mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Ones, we've both two of our meetings for this proposal. I'm the applicant on to meet with the Talbot Norfolk Triangle. We received a petition with 11 signatures to support the Water and Opposition. That will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay, we have a few raised hands. Bruce, go ahead. Bruce, President, Clerk, Councillor Or else's Office. We have met with TNT and they are widely in favor of it with just some hesitations about the parking situation and our office is in support of the project. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chairman. I was in the board, Jeff, and the BPA. We're on record with this. It's an aisle without prejudice. It's taking away the existing green space back there. The maneuverability is impossible. And I don't see how BTV is going to improve this anyway. But five spaces is way too much. I think even the existing three is too much. Or when you look at the plans, it's 8.5 by 20 all the way up. And it takes no accounting to consideration a maneuverability or the existing green space is disappearing. So we can't support this. So we're on record for tonight without prejudice. And let us check up no additional raised hands at the moment. Any other questions for applicant? Would that be a motion? I make a motion to deny without prejudice. I think they need to come back with an alternative parking design. Is there a second? That's it. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Hualazia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lary. Yes. Mr. Anano. Yes. The motion carries. Next we have case B08, 158, 4507, with the address of 2136, 2130 to Washington Street. If the applicant and or their reference and others are present, they're pleased to respond to the board. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Could afternoon Madam Chair members of the board, a 20 dark small, and a business in just up 51 dogs and row. With me today as Ms. Ky Grant, who is the owner and operator of Black Market in Nubian Square. And today we're here seeking to change the legal occupancy of the building from office and retail to office retail to social club with live at the time. And boutique retail space and storage of the basement. The sub district here is the W square EDA, Nubian Square EDA. In our violations as follows, we have one violation for conditional use permit for the social club. And then with regard to insufficient parking, we have about four or five parking spaces in the rear. But primarily it's just to legalize the current use, which is social club retail as the Black Market hosts a number of events, both private and public events, cultural events. And we're seeking to continue their use. Any questions from the board? Here in Zanem, may I have a public testimony? Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. In the center of the Mayor's office, they could defer to the judgment of this board, some back-refational community process. And the butterfiend was held on March 21st. It was not an active neighborhood association in this area. However, the Alpin went out and received and collected 20 letters of support from business owners, as well as also elected officials, such as State Standard Liz Miranda and Rep John Moran. Our office is unaware of any office that's in this time. That will lead to defer to the court. Thank you. Madam Chair, I see no additional raise hands at the moment. Thank you. Madam motion. Motion to approve. Chair second. Second. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lein. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Oli. Yes. Mr. Oro. Yes. Your vote's yes. The motion carries. The vote. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm a supporter. I would have to go. Next two cases have been deferred, so that takes first to be here in schedule for one case. And to start off with, we have case of the OA. 158. 84 by 6, with the address of 77 to 79. It's the applicant's and or the representative president. But they explain the case to the board. That's the case. Okay. Thank you. I received something. I sent a request on your hand. All right. Hi, everyone. My name is Marie Marsat with processing. Communities in the Welcome Bone Parfus Street development over 77 Harvard. That could afternoon. Madam Chair, and thank you for allowing us to present this. Project to you today. I'm joined here today by Jess, with Barbara Sonnenko, our attorney, with studio moves architects, as well as my partners Phil Cohen and Matt Rabina. So I will hear it over to Jess to keep this moving along to get us started to talk about the project. Thank you. Thanks, Mary. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Speaking for the applicant, I'm Jess Barry from Robinson and Cole with the business address of one Boston Place in Boston, 021-08. I'm joined by Mike Morse at Bill Cohen and Matt Rabina from the project developer at Boston, Kenis, and also joined by Project Architect, Elise Zulias from Studio Los Art Decks. As described in the appeal filing and I showed on the site plans, this appeal relates to the vacant parcels of land owned by the city of Boston and located at 77 and 81 Harvard Street in Dorchester for the proposed construction of a four-story multi-family residential structure that will contain 13 residential units. The proposed project is 100% affordable with seven units of affordable to households making up to 80% of the area median income and six units of affordable to households making up to 100% of the area median income. All units are home ownership units. The mayor's Office of Housing designated Boston Communities as the developer for the subject property along with other city owned parcels along Harvard Street for its welcome home Boston Phase I program which is designed to provide affordable home ownership opportunities within Boston. The property is significantly undersized and the project as proposed balances the difficult site conditions with the need for new affordable multi-family construction in the area and a literal enforcement of the zoning code would render the project infeasible. At this point, I will turn it over to, I'll really introduce yourself. So I'll turn it over to Elise Zouyes to review the project's design and then she can turn matters back to me to review the zoning relief requested pursuant to this appeal. Elise? Thank you, Jess. Hi, everyone. I'm Elise Zouyes from Studio Disarchitects representing the architect's hurdle team on this project. So as you can see here, this is our current site plan. So we are a belong Harvard Street and you can see that we're providing seven parking spaces at the rear of the site with access through a driveway on-plan left. We also have a small green space located at the rear of the site, the resident use. As you'll see here, the main entrance is off of Harvard Street with a secondary rear entrance coming from the rear parking lot. Next slide, please. And throughout this project, we have worked to provide family size through bedroom units as the majority of our unit fix. And so on this first floor plan, here, you'll see that we have three units on the ground floor two being two three bedroom units and one being a one bedroom sensory unit. Next slide, please. The floor plans on the second and third floor stack. So here, you'll see we have three units on each of those floors, all of which are three bedroom units. And you'll also see that we're providing two group two accessible units throughout the project located on plan north here at the rear of the site. Next slide, please. On the fourth story, we have four units, two being the three bedroom units and then one one bedroom unit and one studio unit. You can also see on the plan here that we have a centralized corridor throughout all the floors with two stairways and one elevator throughout the building. Next slide, please. And in compliance with the new energy stretch code, we are providing a solar ready roof. Next slide. And so you'll see here, we are proposing four stories at the site and we are trying to conceal the height of the building within a massive roof structure. So you can start to see here that we're trying to minimize the visual weight of the building up on that top story by concealing the entire fourth floor in the massive roof structure. Next slide. And you'll see that that wraps all the way around the building. Next slide, please. So we're proposing 11 foot floor to floor for an overall building height of 49 feet. And as you can see on this section here, there is a significant grade change to the site that we are working to accommodate. And Jess will turn it back to you to review the variances that we're requesting. Thanks so much, Elise. As identified by the notice read at the beat, getting up this hearing, the proposed project requires zoning relief in the form of a use variance for the multi-family dwelling use proposed on the property and variances from the off street parking requirements and off street loading requirements for the doorchester neighborhood district. The project proposes seven parking spaces as opposed to 19.5 parking spaces and proposes no loading spaces as opposed to one space as required by the zoning code. The proposed project also requires dimensional variances with respect to floor area ratio. The proposed project, excuse me, the project proposes an FAR of 1.87 as opposed to 0.5 as required by the zoning code. Building height and stories, the project proposes four stories as opposed to two and a half stories. Building height and feet, the project proposes 49 feet as opposed to 35 feet as required by the zoning code. Conformity with existing building alignment, the project is proposing zero feet as opposed to approximately nine feet. To sign your adept, the project proposes five feet as opposed to 10 feet as required by the zoning code. And we regard it depth. The project proposes 16 feet as opposed to 30 feet as required by the zoning code. Our memorandum in support of this appeal valued the board on April 5th sets forth our arguments in favor of granting the requested relief. So at this point, I am happy to conclude the formal presentation and make myself and the rest of the development team available to answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you very much for having us. Thank you. Just other questions from the board. Okay, hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, none of Chair members of the board connerning with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. This proposal went through an M.O.H. led community process. They'll be able to elaborate more. But they can also reach out to the west of Washington, the Wow Group, and receive their support without the first of the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Second, get Bruce and then Tara. Bruce Brodsman for Councilor or else office. We have worked closely with Mayor's Office of Housing and the Swells that have all been on this project. We are excited to see that it is affordable family style units and is environmentally sensitive. And we stand in support of the project. Hello, Mr. Mayor. Hi, my name is Tara Stachville, and I'm a development officer with the Mayor's Office of Housing. As stated before, this project involves the decision of City Online to welcome from Boston program. Boston community, communities that doesn't need to develop their for these sites. And the project has gone through an extended community process and has the full support of the Mayor's Office of Housing. Thank you. Thanks. And that's it. I have no additional way since. Thank you. Thank you. But that may have a motion. I'm sure. I think this is a good project, and I really appreciate seeing that they are using City Land to create a affordable housing, affordable condos at this moment. I mean, I make a motion for the work. Thank you. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stamperch. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lang. Yes. Mr. Colton's. Yes. Miss Olivia. Yes. Miss Penato. Yes. Chair votes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. That takes those two. Again. Thank you. Thank you. You know, I'm a discussion. Yes. Yes. Madam Chair. So a committee broke the community of minds of mission L C AMH, alleged that the board violated the opening of the meeting law during the April 30, 2024 hearing. Purpose 95 unit residential development to be located on a corner lot at the intersection of Tremont and St. Alphonse Street and the Mission L neighborhood. The proposal includes demolition of an existing building on Tremont Street and the creation of a new law with an address at 100 St. Alphonse Street. An SNCAMH has filed a complaint against the Boston District of the United States. The bill was presented at the BPDA community meeting. The BPDA was a separate entity in the Boston zoning board. The zoning board will fulfill its notice requirements under open meeting law. The notice was sent more than 24 hours before the meeting, filed with the post-traumat service website and continued more than that information. So identified the project including the parcel IDs, permit number, the description of the project, and the zoning violations that was seeking relief from. Does anybody have any questions about that? No. May I entertain a motion? The motion would be to approve the legal ISD draft response. Yes. And then ISD would then send a letter to the complainant as well as the AG's office. Okay. Those two groups draft response. Second. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lorenzio. Yes. Mr. Wano. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Avie. Yes. Ms. Fanado. Yes. Mr. Salary. Yes. Mr. Lantley. Yes. The motion carries. All right. I think that concludes our hearing for June 25th. Thank you all. Thank you. You You