 you you you you you we are good to go stuff me as I didn't have to read the intro for me and I just want to remind or let everyone know that we have a very long agenda so we are going to encourage folks to you know be efficient in their presentations thank you that's very important okay so ready to go good morning in progress good morning the city of Boston's own import of appeal hearing for November 18 2025 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in the quarters with the approval provisions of the open me and law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislation this year the new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027 this hearing of the board is being held remotely via the zoom webinar event platform and is also being live streamed in order to ensure this hearing of the board of the board is open to the public members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conference the information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda which is posted on the public notice page of the city's website Boston.gov members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees which means you will not you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment board members applicants and their attorney or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation material when speaking panelists have strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board as with our in-person meetings comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition the order of comments is as follows elective officials representative of elective officials and members of the public the share may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints required for that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by project that is those individuals who live closest to the project if you wish to comment on an appeal please click the raise handbar and along the bottom of the screen in the zone webinar platform click it again and your hands should go down when the host sees your hand you will receive a request to unmute yourself so that yes and you should be able to talk if you are connected to the hearing by telephone please press star nine two raise and lowering again you must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host those call upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comment and the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so please raise your hand as soon as we stand bridge raise the address into the record do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called upon are the meeting hosts will not know to call on you at the appropriate time thank thank you Stephanie with that I'll do roll call mr. Stembridge good morning good morning mr. Melansia we know the mom shared present good morning Ms. Turner good morning madam chair president good morning Ms. Barbaraza morning madam chair president good morning Ms. Wu-Wall good morning madam chair president good morning mr. Langham good morning madam chair present good morning the floor is yours mr. Stembridge thank you madam chair again we have an echo mr. Stembridge I think perhaps that's what I need to is that better oh perfect thank you thank you let me know sure we'll begin today with the extension schedule for 9 30 a.m. there is a number of them so be with me as I try and get through all they all seem reasonable under the circumstances presented I'll be through we have any questions on accepting them you can direct those to madam chair and we'll go from there we'll begin with case B.O.A.128 5218 with the address of 94 Mara Street along with that we have case B.O.A.128 5217 also with the address of 94 Mara Street next we have case B.O.A. 145 6727 with the address of 270 Sumner Street next we have case B.O.A 759 563 with the address of 80 Mara Street next we have case B.O.A 138 7348 with the address of 55 Mara Street next we have case B.O.A 147 3283 with the address of 604 metropolitan Avenue next we have case B.O.A 142 8646 with the address of 42 East Street next we have case B.O.A 1307730 with the address of 306 Sumner Street next we have case B.O.A 19 119782 with the address of 130 Greene Road next we have case B.O.A 146 1525 with the address of 48 Tori Street next we have case B.O.A 1523713 with the address of 9 Vaughan Avenue next we have case B.O.A 1523744 with the address of 11 Vaughan Avenue next we have case B.O.A 15237 49 with the address of 17 Vaughan Avenue next we have case B.O.A 15237 533 with the address of 19 Vaughan Avenue next we have case B.O.A 138 7346 with the address of 631 to 633 common highway next we have case B.O.A 124 2680 with the address of 171 Cori Road next we have case B.O.A 153 69 40 with the address of 8 Boone Road next we have case B.O.A 148 8 429 with the address of 15 23 to 15 25 Blue Bill Avenue next we have case B.O.A 114 374 with the address of 449 Cambridge Street next we have case B.O.A 112319 with the address of 2 M.O.A next we have case B.O.A 149 4933 with the address of 260 N.O.A and the last extension for today is case B.O.A 104 1086 with the address of 24 spot thank you Mr. Stembridge that was a month ago we appreciate any questions from the board may have a motion motion to grant the extensions as requested may I have a second back in Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Vonesia yes Mr. Turner yes is better browser yes miss we well yes Mr. Langham yes chair votes yes the motion carries next we'll move on to the board final operator cases scheduled for 930 first we have case B.O.A 118 238 zero with the address of 5 Glenburn Street if the applicant to and or the representative of president will they please explain the case to the board good morning Madam Chair and Board my name is Matt Mueller I'm the architect of this project can you all hear me yes sir okay so this project has a little bit of a history originally we had to read parking spaces but we were we had another board final operator that reduced to one because we were asked to keep some trees on site and since then the the project's changed ownership and we're trying to we're trying to get permitted when we realize this pole in front of that parking spot is extremely hard to move for several reasons I enumerated in my letter I can go through those if you want probably though those serious are there creates a fire issue there's a there's a power line that goes close to the neighboring property and if we move to any further to the right it would it would bring the line even closer to the crane fire issue I met with Verizon engineers on site and they walked me through several other problems including there's three utilities that use this pole each one of them would have to get separate street opening permits to move underground lines connected to this pole there's a light that that illuminates the park public park next door with the city park so we'd have to figure out how to move that and if that would create any issues with lighting or safety there's a gate in front of the property next door that we would have to move in front of that would create some egress issues potentially and on top of all that we could potentially save another tree here and we're removing a parking space but we're also removing a potential curb cut so it kind of balances out so I can address more questions about the needy issues also the estimated cost for moving the pole would be up to forty five thousand dollars or more estimated by Verizon and could take potentially years or up to a year to take it this down so it makes the project sort of unpeasible excuse me and I can take any questions or thank you questions from the board here none is there a motion and I'm trying to put a motion of approval there a second back in mr. Stembridge yes mr. Valencia yes mr. yes miss Betabraza yes miss we well yes mr. Langham yes it's yes motion carries good luck thank you all very much have a good day the next two cases are I believe comparing cases so I will read those in together first we have case B.O.A. one two eight five two one eight with the address of 94 Mara Street along with that we have case B.O.A. one two eight five two one seven also with the address of 94 Mara Street if the applicant and or their representative of the president would they please explain to the board yes thank you mr. Stembridge good morning madam chair members of the board for the record richer plittins the business address of 245 Sunder Street on behalf of the positioners Raphael Belldames and Nadiya Sudo Roa madam chair we have brief history on the alarm agenda this was approved by the board back in 2023 it's a vacant lot that is going to be the location for a new four-minute presidential dwelling our plans that were provided to ISD indicated internal stairwells that would access the third and fourth level however based upon their review they've asked us to include a separate need to be addressed because this is a four-story dwelling not uncommon from other cases that we've brought before the board via final auditor as the board already grants a relief for all of the dimensional requirements to allow this project to proceed ISD agreed that this was a program for port final applications were not increasing anything with respect to the rare setback it's just an organization of the stairwell coming down from the fourth level to a lot for the appropriate address under the code very straightforward proposal happening it's very questions to the board thank you any questions from the board here none may have a motion I don't share I'd like to put for a motion of approval there's second that can't be missed Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Valencia yes Mr. Turner yes there's Beto Barazo yes as we will yes Mr. Langham yes chair votes yes the motion carries thank you very much with that we will move on to the groundwater conservation over the industry case thank you Mr. Secretary just took kindly and a rough and a more final arbiter matter on for today is it 11 here on no it is 53 to 5 dust and street and brighten there wasn't any players it's not neat do you have that now it's not under your judge of the tide okay um again we'll go move to the groundwater conservation over the district case schedule for 9 3 a.m this is case BOA 178 5 8 9 1 with the address of 85 chamber street if the applicant and the other representative of the president will they please explain to the board yes good morning madam chair members of the board mark the cast lacasla 75 Overlington street in Boston attorney for Michelle Hedger the property owner this is a groundwater conservation overlay district conditional use permit case there are no other zoning violations presented on our zoning code refusal letter say got renovation of an existence still a cast you know frozen sorry from the second is that better now yeah got renovation of existing two family in the south end which involves installation of groundwater recharge system we have our article 32 compliance letter from BWSC and we have also submitted our no harm letter from the civil engineer who designed the system and there are no other zoning violations on the refuse of letter that's this case thank you any questions from the board hearing none may I have a motion madam chair Christian Seminelli with the groundwater trust sorry that's okay good morning madam chairman of the board Christian Seminelli boss of groundwater trust and we have both chicot letters from the applicant okay thank you so much thank you with that man I have a motion motion Joe Grove man second second mr. Stembridge yeah mr. Valencia yes mr. Turner yes mr. Braza yes mr. Langell yes chair votes yes the motion carries the law next we have a building code case scheduled for 9 30 a.m this is case B.O.A 175 95 80 with the asus of 157 west can street if the applicant and the one they represent a president will they please find the case for the board thank you mr. Sembridge thank you madam chair members of the board ducking under send with rimkiss with formerly C3 Boston which is a name probably everybody remembers from a couple years ago this is an existing single family in the south end it was actually renovated about 20 something years ago and I'd worked with that developer on this project part of this renovation includes replacement of a roof deck accessed by a roof hatch for which there are no permit records at ISD and so we got the as a result we received a refusal letter citing a building code section or provision that requires roof backs as B.O.A head house which of course is a direct conflict with the zoning code which does not which would result in a couple of zoning violations one of which is a restricted roof structure district provision in article 64 it would also increase the FAR because it's outside the existing building on the lopen so it's not kind of a court and court permitted under article 64 and it is only serving a single family dwelling so the the life safety hazardous significantly reduced as opposed to it being served by a multi family we have from my understand south end landmarks has approved the replacement railing and of course the hatches invisible from the street I have a nice the middle included a street view from down west Canton street it's done the corner Montgomery so it's a little more visible than it otherwise would be because it's a corner building so that's the request is to retain the roof hatch for access to the roof deck questions from the board hearing none is there a motion that I'm sure I like to put for a motion for relief for the variance for the building code is there a second thank you mr. Stumberidge yes mr. Valencia yes his turner yes he's we well yes there's better browser yes mr. Langham yes chair votes yes motion carries good luck thank you man chair members of the void next we'll move on to the hearings from the recent subcommittee on the number six I'll read through the the cases both of which were approved and with the take of vote on them at the end we'll begin with case of the way 175 96 the zero nine with the address of 72 latent street that case was approved next we have case of the way 177 2272 with the address of 364 main street which was approved next we have case BOA 178 3484 with the address of 100 city hall plaza which was approved next we have case BOA 170 2910 with the address of 93 charter street the case was withdrawn next we have case BOA 175 989 with the address of 18 rock and square which was approved next we have case BOA 174 2622 with the address of 917 each Broadway the case was approved next we have case BOA 175 06 6 0 with the address of 78 however harder you speak this case was approved with the provisor of removing one of one parking space and this site plan to be reviewed by the Austin planning department paying attention to ground surface next we have case BOA 1710454 with the address of 118 boat street which was approved then we have case BOA 174 9143 with the address of 29 hall earth street next we have case BOA 17667 2 through with the address of 61 wheel of road that was approved next we have case BOA 176 6 1 1 4 with the address of 8 Preston Road this was approved next we have case BOA 172 122 0 with the address of 128 garden street which was approved next we have case BOA 175 79 94 with the address of 51 to 53 brocoline avenue case was approved with the provisor of our planning department designer view presiding and compliance and finally we have case BOA 176 9 1 0 3 with the address of 26 window street that case was deferred until today I'm sure those are the cases from the subcommittee I'll make the motion of approval is there a second second mr. Stembridge yeah mr. Blancia yes mr. Turner yes mr. Baza yes as we well but madam chair I'm sorry to make things more difficult I think I agree with all except for all except for the main street item I tend to agree with planning about living space below the design flood elevation where they recommended denial and I think the subcommittee approved is that do I have that right yes so how would I I think parse that out procedurally that I agree with the recommendations aside from that one well I I in the absence of Caroline I'm going to suggest we defer that unless anyone else has a comment okay so keep last year this is definitely yes I think can you just both know just how you do it in a regular case it will just have her as any post to that Baza thank you okay so I think you're voting no then right well no okay mr. Langel yes okay the chair votes yes the motion carries thank you Stephanie you're all next we'll move on to the hero schedule for 9 30 a.m. at this point we'll ask it we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from 9 30 yes business 704 metro parts and avenue please though that this would be for case BOA 172 0 9 8 3 with the address of 70704 metro poles and avenue would you go ahead and explain to me yes yes thank you mr. assemblage madam chair members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adam Samarazzi business address of 168 H street first floor self-boston we're here asking for a deferral as there is a sister application that was not advertised so again that those applications both need to be advertised at the same time so we're requesting a short deferral okay Stephanie what do we have for dates does that have a 16 that works thank you okay may I have a motion motion to deferral December 16 may have a second second mr. Stembridge yeah mr. Valencia yes yes mr. Turner yes is better raza yes is we well yes mr. Langham yes chair votes yes motion carry see them any further requests for withdrawals of the shrills when this time from the morning yes we're here for 122 would that that would be for that's not on to 113 um pay away from please that's getting you for 1130 you can ask for deferral at that time any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930 I want to be being deferred I'm sorry I'm a resident wanted to speak about 122 would have that is not even on until 1130 so we don't know until 1130 oh 1130 okay hostage okay so mr. secretary and sorry I had asked to step me about another more kind of arbiter matter I just sent her an email confirming her confirmation for today for that matter except you could just check her emails and confirm it be appreciated I won't talk to you after the hearing okay thank you okay if there are no more requests for deferrals I'll turn back to mr. Stembridge and remind presenters that we have a long schedule so please be efficient thank you um while we're on the subject manager did have no for another deferral from 930 okay which is case b08169 6317 with the address of 58 mallet street no one is responding but the note that I have is this has been deferred until December 9 okay so may have motion motion of his leg it's in by 9th we have a second back in with mr. Lanzia yes mr. Turner yes this better about yes mr. Vow yes mr. Ringman yes chairman yes the motion carries now we're going through the case of schedule for 930 and we begin with two companion cases first case b08169 0497 with the address of 16 canal street along with that we have case b08178 9293 with the address also with the address of 60 canal street if the applicant can't handle their representative or president will they please respond to the board thank you mr. Stembridge thank you man chair members the board attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here in the here in behalf of the applicant mark blotner who's the owner and developer of the building and with me I also have author two who's the architect on the project the the first matter is a zoning matter for a gene code and the project if you stay right on that slide mr. Ambassador just so folks and see the front of the building this building is located at 60 canal street and this is an office conversion proposal to change the occupancy from office sports shop with a snack bar to office general retail and residential use converting the third fourth fifth and sixth floors of the building to residential use for a total of six units and the basement first and second floor will remain with no proposed changes with its current tenant which is commercial use a res a retail use this particular building falls under the bullfinch triangle district it is a historical architectural district in Boston and part of our proposal is to and this is why it fits well with the conversion program is to maintain the existing structure all of the work would be done the majority of the work would be done in the interior of the building converting to six units above those levels and preserving the exterior of the building my client has a history of historic preservation and worked with the community on this proposal it is also part of the district that the BPD a changed back in March of 2025 to actually allow for residential housing when we filed this back in January back in December and got our refusal letter in January of 2025 you were actually cited for two needs for variance one obviously was G-Cod and we've submitted everything to groundwater trust and and Mr. Simonelli should have all of that the second was for the residential use that has since been updated we did notify the plans examiner so the only relief now that would be required would be for the G-Cod on the zoning side of this just to go over if we go into the the floor plan section the for basement first and second floor would remain that commercial retail space the tenant is the ski monster they've they've already been they're already located in the building and will remain to be minor renovations to those floors the third fourth fifth and sixth floor would house the sixth residential units these are larger family sized units unit one is a two bedroom at 1864 square feet unit two was a two bedroom slightly over 2100 and then unit three which would be the owners unit the owners moving in the building as well would be 2782 square feet and that would go from the fourth fifth and sixth floors like a townhouse style and then the fourth fifth and sixth units are also two bedroom in the 2000 square foot range and those would all be housed upstairs as well as we went through this proposal we were able to get west end civic association is not opposition and the support I believe they're on the call of the downtown crossing north association as well the second in the BPDA support the second part of this matter is the a building code refusal that was issued and and mr. two was going to touch upon that and the reasoning it has to do with the height of the building because we're now converting from commercial to residential this is all former office space has not been rented in a long time especially since covid and we felt that residential was more appropriate given the changes of the BPDA and the city councilor had asked for to encourage new residential housing and office conversion this building matches all of the other surrounding buildings and it was made quite clear to us that both the neighborhood the BPDA and planners wanted to see this building preserved given its historical nature was built in 1871 and my clients specifically works on those kind of conversions and so with that I wanted to turn it over to author chew just to go over the building code issue and why we're seeking relief thank you Jeff the reason why we're going for building code variance is that the it's an existing building where we have no extensions or additions planned for the building the jacket says it's six stories and 99 feet tall and five beacons three B construction which only allows five stories and 75 feet since we got the violation we've done additional research into the building and surveys and found out it's actually four B construction which allows 12 stories and 180 feet to ensure that this is the case as we expose it we're going to paint it with an intimacy paint giving everything the every timber would instill an abby clad which will give it a two arm rating and all new elements that we put in this building will be meet the current codes with with that we're going to take up and this is the blorge's time I can pause to answer any questions thank you are there questions from the board process but they should not do is delay a vote on a bill that houses units I'm sorry is there a question yes are the six units are those going to be home one at cheap or rentals so they're likely to be rentals the owner is moving into one of the units themselves the largest unit and he does own a number of rental building so it will be rental for now it will be condo ready but rental for now thank you thank you was that now I have a public testimony no matter the chairman members of the board my name is Emma Jones I represent the mayor's office of the neighborhood services regarding 60 Canal Street are office to first the board's judgment on this matter a community process was conducted including in a butters meeting held on 227 25 which was lightly attended my office has received one letter in support regarding the proposal citing revitalization of the neighborhood and support for more housing in the city the proposal was also reviewed by the west end civic association and provided a formal letter of non-opposition submitted to the board at this time the mayor's office of neighborhood services to first to the board's judgment on this matter thank you everyone for your time and consideration thank you Mr. Somanelli the morning madam chairman members of the board Christian Somanelli the Boston Brownwood Trust we have both G-Cos letters from the up thank you thank you hi next we have some courage please morning madam chairman members of the board spent the correction on councilor Durkins office the council would like to go on record in support of this proposal we've been in contact with local neighborhood associations who are in non-opposition the council also probably worked to make a housing allowed in the Bolton's triangle and the citizens of the west thank you so much thank you and last person is Jay Wolfe and I good morning madam chair members of the board Jay Wolfe on behalf of the downtown north association very excited to see this building activated again and again we'd like to run record in support thank you thank you thank you ma'am general additional comments hey with that man motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion capture motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion can SIMM spatial motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion motion being a corn a lot, the zony code here creates an undue hardship not experienced by the owners of other interior lots. A reduced-buildable envelope makes it impractical to construct a new structure reasonably sized within this neighborhood. This hardship arises from the lots configuration, not from any action of the owners. The requested variance would allow reasonable use of the property while maintaining the character of the neighborhood. Next is we have a root structure restriction violation which is a conditional used permit as it relates to the proposed height due to a text of them into the zony code when raising an existing structure a new project exceeding that height of the existing structure. So we subject to a conditional use despite being compliant by the zony code in the sub-district. The existing height of the structure being demolished is approximately 32 feet while the proposed height of the new structure is approximately 35 feet. We believe this force should approve this conditional use permit based upon the proposed height being compliant under the zony code in its alignment with other buildings within this area. Further I like to mention that it's noted within the planning department's recommendation that there is need of zony reform for this type of violation as that they propose to at some point in time to eliminate that violation. Lastly we do have the green belt protection overlay district another conditional use permit which is triggered in this overlay when proposing over 5,000 square feet of gross floor area which will require Boston Parks Department review to increase flood resiliency through site plan and plant selection. At this point I'm going to turn it over just to David free quickly. I think it's important for David to show some of the contacts photos on how the design actually fits in with the cap. You're the name going so David I'm going to turn it over you quickly. Thank you very much Ryan. My name is David for you I'm an architect at June Company and if you could please go back to at least in the beginning there was some some neighborhood there's a page of neighborhood photos. Right there please thank you so in the immediate vicinity of our product is the south-post south-bloss and young club. You know we've got a three-story structure here we have in the on our block here we have a two-family three-story structure and a six-family three-story structure across the street we've got the Bollinger condominium project which is four stories. The old nursing home which is converted to 16 units so there's a mix and eclectic mix of different housing types and uses next page please. And then these are just some immediate pictures of the site. You know years 1808 or immediate a better image on the upper right is the house that's going to be demolished and you can see behind us is a four-story structure. The lower left is looking down e7 and the image on the lower right is again e7 you can see that that our house is very close to the street it's a 2.2 feet at the closest points and 1808 is a zero front yard setback and if you go to the immediate block after us going west again they have a zero foot front yard setback. If you can flip to page 18 please. Thank you. We just did some overlays showing the footprint of the house in relation to some of the immediate buildings in the context and you can see that our footprint is in line with the structures surrounding us. Next page please. Again here we have a 3D view and you can see that again we're in line in terms of size far parcel with the other structures and there's a very eclectic mix of structures and sizes in the immediate neighborhood. Next page please. Here's a rendering on the scene from Columbia Road and towards e7. Next page please. This would be a view of our project looking down e7th west. Next page please. Here we're looking on e7th and finally this is a view from Columbia Road and I'll turn it back to you Brian. Thank you. Thank you David and then Madam Chair before I turn on view as we are all aware of the planning departments recommendation which is which is very consistent on the proposal that you're seeing here today. So again thank you very much and I'm going to turn it back over to you for any questions or concerns Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, Madam Public testimony. Good morning Madam Chair. I remember seeing you Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the OIS community process or office hosted an initial a butters meeting in July of 2024 after which revisions were made to the proposal. Updated plans were submitted on May 27th 2025. Second a butters meeting was held on July 15th 2025 at which time there was a mix of support and opposition. Five individual spoken opposition raising concerns about the setbacks and the design. 13 individual spoke in support citing the positive revisions to the proposal and the good character of the applicants. Office has received 101 letters of support. Seven of those letters signed in address in the 300 foot butters radius are also received six letters of opposition. Office is aware that there are other comments and letters that have been sent directly to the board. The City Point Neighborhood Association is the active civic group in this area. They are opposed to this application citing concerns about the height and about the front yard setback. With that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you and we have a lot of raised hands. I'm going to ask you to be brief and build on information to put that. Thank you. All right. So if first we have Ashley from Consular Fee, no office. Hi my name is Ashley from Councilor Flynn's office. While Councilor Flynn acknowledges deferring and afternoon opinions in the community on this case he would like to go on record and support based on a few reasons. Please note Councilor Flynn originally supported a landmark designation that was denied by the City of Boston Landmark Commission earlier this year in February. However, once that landmark destination failed to pass at the city level and with both the ZBA's historical record of approving the majority of variances requested including a study years ago that claimed over 91% of cases passed and now it's only 800 units of housing approved in Boston's halfway through 2025. Councilor Flynn understood the very real possibility something will be built at this site. As a result he advocated for genuine concessions during the community process. The proponent subsequently reduced the project from four stories down to three. Change from three flats to one flat into duplexes and it's tended to make the massing and design more in line with existing buildings nearby. The project also includes five parking spots at the time that the city is constantly reducing parking and that odds with neighbors on self-blossiness existing parking crisis. Councilor Flynn acknowledges many of his neighbors may believe more work could have been done but he also believes their advocacy and the proponents willingness to work with the community resulted in a better project. In the final analysis there has been several projects on Columbia Road in recent years. One had strong community opposition that Councilor Flynn was opposed when it was denied at the ZBA but it was then subsequently overturned in court. Others have had either community rights or nationality. Okay next we have Anthony Gilarri. Morning Madam Chair, I was a boy at the Duality from City Councilor Aaron Murphy's office. The council would like to unrecord and support of this project. Thank you. Okay thank you. Next we will have a Jim Cohen. Yes I'm a live right in the area and I am in support of this project. The violations of the zoning code that are being sought relief on are just sort of routinely given both on the height and the front yard setback and it's a nice looking structure and I think it'll be an asset to the neighborhood so I support this project. Thank you. Okay next we have Chris Silver. Hello, can I come in? Yes. Hi my name is Chris Ram. I live at 7.947. I'm a direct about around about 75 feet directly across the street just like to voice my opposition to this to this project. The variations that are being sought are not on hardships per se. They're desires that the developer seeks to overcome as a directivator. This is going to impact my light, my air. It's going to impact the overall look and feel of the area so strongly encouraged the board to deny any exceptions or variants. Thank you. Okay thank you. Next week up, Thomas Casper. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Thomas Casper from Senator Nick Collins office. The Senator would like to go on record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have more, four more people. Both do you have the next one? Hi, my name is Bob Swabell. I live in 1808 Columbia Road. I'm a director of butter. While the updated design presents an improvement over the previous design down, you know, four stories down to three, it would be appreciated if they could make additional updates to bring their future development into compliance with the existing zoning or at least the spirit of the zoning. They have pushed right out to the curbs. It seems as though, you know, they've just ignored the zoning. They're going up very high. And again to echo Chris's point, it does not seem this is not a hardship issue. They have chosen to do this. They lived in the house as it is now for the last 20 plus years and clearly it wasn't a hardship. Thank you. So, okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, there is one more person in the panelist section, Zoom user? Yep. Please be brief. Support opposition. The person with this, some user name? Zoom user with the raised hand. Okay. Keep going. Okay. We'll take a few more. Okay. So, you're on the chat. You're on the panelist section. Okay. Good morning. Tromock's Holly. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Thank you. My name is Tromock's Holly. My wife and I live 100 yards to the west of the house. And we did the exact same procedure. We raised our single family to two families. We've reviewed the plans that the clarity have made and we're 100% far. It's going to be a wonderful addition from a hundred year old's house to a brand new house. And we just feel that it's great that they're allowing their family to stay together in the city, Boston, each youth. It's critical to the life of the city. They have children living in the neighborhood. Some Boston, we need more youth and they're out to do that. So, thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. See you right after this session. Okay. Next, Katie. You can speak please. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. Kathy last pretty resident of East 7th Street in South Boston. The neighborhood's priorities for decades. As a lifelong resident, we've seen more complex and controversial projects allowed in this community that have had significant negative impacts on our neighborhood. This project is not bad. This is a family who is hoping to change their homes so that their children can remain in this community for the decades to come. That is what's important to this neighborhood. I 100% support this project and I urge the board to do so as well. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Robin Adams. Hi. Robin Adams, 794 East 7th Street, Director of Other. I would support a renovation. This is a tear down and luxury condos with private elevators. There's been a failed community process that has focused on the who and why. I'd like to address some design concerns. These are new comments. No one has said these comments. I don't think there should be a basement. I think that this could be an ADU or a bedroom or a future finished space in the basement next to a flood zone. I would like the basement to be eliminated down to just elevators service. I'd like the board to look at the boxed out storage said on the second floor balcony. There's basically a blank wall in the center of this project that is a very poor design choice to accommodate a walking closet on the interior that needs to be fixed. There's too many balconies and not enough green space. And having all the balconies fulfill the zoning requirement. Children and families need grass and the community does not want to see maxed out lots along the beach. I'd like to touch on something. The attorney said that is a harm ship, the shape of the lot. I would like to counter with the shape of the lot is being used as a through lot and that is an advantage to maxing out this lot. It means that a 20 foot rear setback is not required. So there's the 20 foot modal front setback also getting a variance for that is pretty ridiculous. And I'd like to talk about how to bring this project. Yes, of course, but no one has said these comments. Yes, that's okay. You can lower the building for feet to get it to a line with the height. And there's an eye sore that's a garage and you could eliminate the garage and put in two garage doors you drive through and have two or three indoor spots, two or three outdoor spots. That would eliminate the setback problem and we wouldn't need to be here. Thank you. Thank you. And I ask people to take two more comments and I'm going to ask everyone else to put their comment in the chat as we have 20 or 30 more cases left. Thank you. Okay, sounds good. Okay, next we'll have Karol and Suleiman. Hi, this is Carolyn Solven. I'm a director butter. Along to my husband at 7996 Street. We appreciate all that the Claries have done to change this property and we 100% support them in this endeavor. Thank you. And the last one is Luan. Yeah. Sorry. Thank you. Yes, good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, Luan, I'm calling our president to the city of Quaint Neighborhood Association. We voted on this particular project on September 25th and the membership had both brand new members coming into vote on this particular project as well as long-term membership. The vote was overwhelmingly in opposition to this project. With that being said, I would like for the board to take a look at who in fact are direct debuts versus non-direct debuts or even about that matter. There are quite a few people that are in support of the project that have no relevant or legal standing. This project based on who the owners are. This is also as the board is aware it has become a political hot button issue. So please be aware of that when you're making your decision. We ask that this particular project is either denied or denied without prejudice and it goes back to the drawing board to work with the direct debuts. This is our beach on Columbia Road. The architect did not show that piece of Columbia Road. They kept going east which is a different housing stock and this particular house was not in the area. Thank you. Okay. So let's give a quick opportunity to hear feedback from the applicant on the concerns that were raised and I do want to acknowledge that we receive many emails in support or opposition. Great. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll be brief. A lot of the issues that we heard when we got in the design of the front-end setback can be addressed during design review. Again, the proposal here is very consistent with the planning departments recommendation was around surrounding the five yard setback as well as the two conditional use permits and nothing specifically pertaining to the design. But again, those setbacks can be addressed during the design review. I'd like to mention there was comments about regarding the height we are compliant under Article 68. We are at 35 feet. However, due to that, the restriction text amendment. Again, just want to highlight it again for the board members that within the planning departments recommendation, they did say there was a need of zoning reform due to that, restructuring restriction with the potential of eliminating it. Again, Article 85, demolition permit was approved with no delay initiated. And again, there is no little space in the basement itself. So that pretty much wraps up and I just like to say that I do know there were over 271 letters in support that will email over to the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Q&N, none is there a motion? I'll make a motion. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisos. One being that the project goes under BPD design review in a second that the project also goes under the review of the Department of Parks and Recreation, due to its location on the Greenville protectionally district. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berberazo. Yes. Mr. Mueval. Are you on mute? Yes. But you always want to add a little bit about why I'm supporting this. I think the shape of the law is an odd shape which drives some of the relief with the front setback. I think this allows for a slight increase in density which is consistent with city goals and overall I do think the height is largely consistent with the neighborhood. I do agree with the provisos for design review. Does it? Does need a little bit more work? Thank you. Mr. Lina. Are you also on mute? Mr. Lina. Sorry. Yes. Thank you. Sure. I'm also on mute. Mr. Lina. Sorry. Yes. Thank you. Sure. Next we have case of B.O.A. 173-625 with the address of 921-925 Parkour Street. It's the applicant to enter the representative of the president. Please explain to the board. Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Yes, so these are the renderings here. What we're proposing to do is install panel antennas more radio units and cabinetry as the standard telecommunications installation on the rooftop and conceal it behind screen. So if you scroll down you'll see a photo of the existing BHA building, set of storage building, and then the next photo is a rendering of what it will look like on the roof. That's where we can see how the concealment we believe and for the existing characteristics of the building. And that's suppose we can go on this, or we can go into more detail if the board in the panel would like. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, I believe this building belongs to the BHA portfolio. I didn't see any ledger or any opinion from the BHA about this project. Do you have any agreement with the BHA about this installation? Yes, we do. We signed a lease agreement with the BHA earlier in 2025 this year. This is actually a relocation from a building, an existing building at the BHA. It's 265th Center Street that's being renovated. So the BHA has asked that team over relocate to this building and we signed an agreement and worked through the design with the BHA over the past couple of years. And the BHA knows it were in the programming process now. Thank you. Does that have public testimony? Sorry, I have a number. Can you comment on the safety of radio frequency, any type of safety measures that need to be approved? So it is not harmful to the residents nearby. Sure. We, team mobile and all of its installations as well as all of the carriers are regulated by the FCC guidelines for safety emissions. And we have to fall within a or underneath a certain threshold and this installation as well as all of team models installations does fall underneath that threshold. I have a different question. Man public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record by name is Jarvie Bembery. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. I have a question. czyey decomposition has a question. Let's see the exemption curry. not the exemption curry. fingers. Let's see the examination carry 안�ewive. be peeling. We have the exception biri. next. Next. we have case, bureau one, se Next. Next. Number two, three four. nine, 100, 9, 100, AK, of 1007, kim. Congressman appearance was It's theCRINC and Person present. Thearle explainخ character We are proposing an 8-unit condo at 107 Menolia Street, Dorchester. The proposed structure would have three story roof frame construction with five parking spaces off street. The first floor would consist of two residential units. The second and third floor would have three units each floor. Each unit would have two beds, two baths. The units are ranging between 950 square feet to 1150 square feet. Under Article 50, we are seeking variance on minimum lot size front yard and side yard setback, FAR, open space, and minimum parking, where 8 parking spaces require and we have five. The current property is a vacant lot with unpaid parking spaces used by the adjoining buildings. The property is surrounded by multi-family residents. We have received support from the Sunnest Office. This is the roof that the roof is actually from mechanical only, so we won't have any roof deck above. This is the end of my presentation. Thank you. Questions from the board? I have a question Madam Chair. Could the applicant take us through the parking especially along Magnolia Square? There's one, two, three, four parking spaces and I'm just unclear on how those will be accessed. That's a corner lot. We can have that enclosed with garage doors if it's visibility issue. What is the plan now? Would it be just one curb cut, one really wide curb cut for a curb cut? Yes. Okay. I think the site design is a little inefficient especially with the parking for along there, and then one on Magnolia Street, so I'll leave it at that for my comments right now. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberi. I am the Don't Just Our Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. That we can ask complete the community process which consists of an enormous meeting facilitated on May 20th. That was very likely attended with one constituent voicing support for the proposal. And I will know who they felt communicated well with the neighborhood. Next, the proposal was presented to Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative, reporting in support of the proposal as the committee was pleased to hear that one of the A units will be affordable. Thank you for your time and members of the Office of Neighborhood Services. We'll like to defer to the work that they charge. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I like to say this project is a real nice project for that area. I'm really familiar with that area. So I like to make a motion to approve this project. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stoverage. Yes. Mr. Volansier. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Barbaraza. I'm going to vote no. I find that the amount of units is good. I find the parking very odd within its massing. So that's why I'm going to vote no. Thank you. Ms. Lee-Roe. I will also be voting now. I agree with the recommendation from planning. It would be nice to see something here if it's currently used as just parking. But I think this project needs a little bit more work around the parking and the massing. Thank you. Ms. Bill Angham. Yes. You're chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. The next case has been the front. It's taken to do planning. Is it a real way? One, seven, two, eight, seven, three, four. With the address of seven, twenty five, Adam Street. Along with that, we have case of real way. One, seven, two, eight, seven, three, seven. Also with the address of seven, thirty five, Adam Street. If the applicant and all the representatives present with that, please explain the case to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board. I'm Dylan Weist with the offer of Dane Torpie, or 175 Federal Street here in Boston. I'm here on behalf of Adam Street Village LLC. And with me this morning is Mayor Davis, who is a representative of ownership. This is an unusual and very technical presentation board. We're actually not asking for new zone relief. This is an approval that goes back to 1966 and 1967. What we're technically looking for is a amendment of provisors that are older than I am on 56. This is almost a six-year-old set of approvals. So we're looking to amend old provisors that are no longer appropriate today, or in the alternative to get relief in the foreign variances from today's parking requirements. But be sure if we can pause here on this parking plan. Adam's Village just off the administrative tour chester. It's an 88-unit rental apartment complex in two buildings. Number seven, twenty five, has four units. Number seven, thirty five, has forty eight units. The project was initially approved back in 1962 phases, 1966, 1967. A provisor required one parking space per unit. This is our proposed parking plan. The original requirement of one space per unit meant 88 units. Today we can actually only fit on the land that we control 63 bases. The front of the new shows the proposed 63 space layout. You'll see all the spaces are nice and square. And they're above and below a right-of-way that runs east-west through the property. We're facing north looking up here. So east-west you see a right-of-way running through below the two buildings. And all the spaces are properly outside that right-of-way. That takes us to the next slide. Somehow in the 1960s when this project was approved, a number of the required parking spaces were a runestly laid out in this shared private drive. And those count towards the zoning requirement for that reason. The land is not under its loose control. It is shared with all the other owners and the butter is up and down this roadway. And therefore the parking spaces were a runestly laid out. We don't know how this happened. Again, it was almost 60 years ago. But this came up in the course of a routine periodic commercial refinancing, where we obviously need to bring the property into zoning compliance. The good news is that we can fit a total of 27 spaces that will support number 40. We can fit 36 spaces that will support number 48. Together in those 63 spaces, we represent a ratio of about 0.72 spaces per unit. If we were perming this project today, that's what the Boston Transportation Department would say is about the upper limit of the range that they would recommend and they would probably be more in the range of half a space per unit. I believe we have Patrick Howey available this morning from the Boston Transportation Department who can speak to this. So we're here not because we are looking a firm, a firmly for relief. We have an error that affects the zoning compliance. We need to make sure the project is in zoning compliance. No one today is responsible for this mistake. We believe we have a reasonable solution that does bring us well within today's modern parking guidelines. There are also old provisions we'd like to address at the same time. One pertains maintaining a cedar board fence at the site, which is expensive in maintenance. Nightmare would like to have that lifted. It's no longer applicable. There's also provision relating to no fees for parking and current practice and recommendation from the Transportation Department is that parking is charged separately for rent to discourage people and people bring cars unnecessarily to the city who could use other modes of transportation like the tea, the boss, et cetera. And the final thing I will point out is that even before this change, all 88 spaces were not in use. Our most recent registration roles when the bill was 99% occupied had only 64 tenant cars registered with us. We'll have 63 spaces going forward. Anyway, that's the basis for our appeal. Again, Patrick Hoey is here, maybe able to shift some additional light on how we comply with today's parking expectations. Thank you. Other questions from the ward? Just to confirm, you have a total 27 parking spaces. It's a demand that comes out to our point 7, too. That's correct. Okay. And so in this site plan, what I'm seeing along the public way, the ones that are being removed are shown what's in the public way, correct? Yes. So if you can see the right, if that's clear on the screen, those ones being removed and the things full of sub-large is north of the Eastman to run through the site. Some of those spaces are just nosing into the private way. That's right. So the private, I'm not sure if you had a chance to look at the BPD recommendations, but they are recommending that we preserve that private way. Do you see an issue with that for the preservation of that parisal? The private way is an issue of title. We own that in common with lots of other neighbors and it's it's been existence for many decades. Nothing about that will change. Okay. Because we just can't we can't count parking spaces towards being her zone compliance. No, right. Exactly located there. That's all we're changing. Yeah, I think that's understood. I think it was more of that the ability for it to maintain kind of a public way. We'll need to see kind of preserve. So I just wanted to understand there was any issues with that. I don't need further questions. Thank you. It's a great question. We're not changing the way it and any way besides us. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Would that one take public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. My name is Emma Jones representing the mayor's office and the board services regarding 725 to 735. Adam Street office differs to the board's judgment on this matter. The community process was conducted, including a fire distribution and based off of community feedback. My office opted to host the butter's meeting held on 917 25. That was heavily attended by several board Chester community members. The feedback from this meeting was significant opposition to the loss of parking, citing ongoing issues with parking in the neighborhood. Additionally, we received four letters expressing opposition to the proposal referencing many of the symptoms and to express them via butter's meeting. The proposal was also reviewed by the Ashmont Adam Civic Association at their meeting on 11625. The Monday expressed support regarding the proposal and have expressed at these changes the place the property and compliance was current zoning code and caused no disruption to the community at large. Regarding the proposal they have provided a formal letter of support submitted to the board at this happens the mayor's office and the board's services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time in consideration. The little Madam Chair members of the board, Liam Reemus from Councilor Patel's office are absolutely glad to offer this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. My name is Melissa Ro. If it's okay for me to speak in my resident. Oh, yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Chair, I'm Mr. Reckard in briefly state, Ms. Moran. Yes, I'm Melissa Ro. Levin, West Mallon, Australia. Just want to go on record. I understand that the project is complicated. It does have to do with dating from a long time ago. My husband and I are opposing removing the parking spaces. I have a resident parking needs that are in our neighborhood. We're abutting residents on West Mallon Street in take on a brunt of the parking from Adams and Adams Village businesses. So I just wanted to voice my opposition if there was another way that you could work around putting these parking spaces in. I just feel like we are going to take on more of the brunt of parking on our street. Our neighbors are already, you know, having incidents, having a report 311 with issues of, you know, cars being left here for days on end, et cetera. So just a little bit of a worry about that if you could take another look at the design. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I think there is one more person. I'm not sure. Okay. Mary Walnayf. Yes. I'm Mary Walnayf. I'm at eight Westmoreland, a direct neighbor across the street from Melissa that just spoke. I put the details of my concerns in the chat for in the sake of time, but basically just echoing what Melissa said. I appreciate if they could come up with a plan that addresses the issue but maintains the current number of parking spaces as we're already dealing with the overflow. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'll have for a motion of approval with a proposal that the pedestrian access being maintained at 735. Adam Street by the 1966 proposal. Second. I agree with that. It sounds like we're just legitimizing some existing conditions that warrant bringing the site into zone and compliance by removing some parking spaces. Mr. Spebringer. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Yes. Mr. Wiel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have two compelling cases. The first is Casey. B.O.A. 17096. The 06 with the address of 56 Old Morning Street. Along with that we have Casey B.O.A. 173. 2175 with the address of 56 R. Which it's all charged. If the applicant and what they represent on the president will be a clear supply of cases to the board. Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Michael Chavez on the architect and representative of the owner for this project. This is essentially an 80 you to convert a conversion of a two car garage into an additional growing unit that's on site. There's an existing two family home on the on the lot and the existing garage. The in the rear is being converted just for clarification on the address which we're working on. We were assigned the address of 56 R. Which it's not serious which is the road that's behind the lot because we've designed it as an 80 you and. It's associated with you know connected utility wise and everything else to the building. We're working on getting a call 56 R Old Morning Street so that it has the same address as the existing home and everything comes and goes from the front of the front of the house. And in short I think you have to two car garage conversion it's going to be a two bed one bathroom unit. It's going to have its exterior redone to have more residential look to it new windows new doors common access to the rear yard. It's got some yard space on both the side and the rear of the garage so again it's have some more space there. And all of its utilities will be connected from the from the 80 you were calling it to the house as designed and in compliance with Boston's 80 you program. This is just outside of the 80 you district in Madapant so therefore the Sony branches is it's second dwelling on single watt. It also has a side yard rear yard setback variance of r asking for as well as an FAR when you combine the new unit the two car conversion with two family. That's the now that exceeds the FAR for the lot but they're building itself will be receiving number of different structural improvements and will improve minutes to be compliant with residential code. Energy code and yeah I'll just stop there for questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record by name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Madapant community engagement specialist to the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abuters meeting facilitated on August 11th with one supporting abuter and attendance who was delighted to hear the area would be cleaned up. Next up is the center to River Street's civic association where concerns for parking were conveyed and the proposal was allowed to move forward. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the work with your judge. Okay next we have a team of team. I'm sorry. Thank you very much Madam Chair members of the board. Timothy Gimond from district force city council prime where else office we'd like to go on record in support of this project. We appreciate the community process that has taken place and we have confirmed that on opposition with the River Street civic association so we would like to go on record in support. Thank you very much. Thank you Madam Chair there are no additional comments. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion of approval. Thank you Mr. Stombridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes yes motion carries good. Thank you for your time. Next case we've been deferred. So that takes us to case B.O.A. 173 2895. What do you have just eight to 12 and grocery? It's the applicant and the members of our president. What they put in the lines of the board. Thank you Mr. Stombridge. Good morning Madam Chair members of the board attorney John Plugini here on behalf of Bob Bryce Belder. This proposal located at eight to 12 Amherst Street in Rosendale. The proposal before you today is to demolish the existing structure at eight to 12 Amherst. And in its place construct a three story, three unit residential home ownership building. The two family structure currently on this lot is an absolute I saw and has an I saw and has been vacant for many years. In other context this lot is a two F 5000 sub district on the edge of newly established S one S four squares and streets sub district. The lot itself is next to an existing three family when you're looking at the building three family to the right and existing two family to the rear. And to the left there is the cooperative banks commercial building and across the street there's a nine unit building to quickly summarize. The proposal will be three stories that house three condos is greenfully meant as previously mentioned each unit will have three bedrooms to two and a half bats. Making it suitable for families each unit will also have two car parking within the building as well as a small roof deck the approximate size of each unit will be around 1800 feet. The proposal went through a full community process and based upon some feedback received Mr. Bryce tell the met with the rear of butter and revised the plans based upon that meeting. The result was redesigning the building which narrowed the building from front to back and was able to increase the rear yard setback from six to 14 feet giving an additional eight foot of setback. And if you look at the BP DNA recommendation it is recommended for approval with design review and in closing it is just providing three home ownership opportunities with absolutely no displacement. I'm happy to answer any questions that anybody has. Thank you. Any questions from the board. Here in 9 May I follow testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Rosalindale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which is a sort of an abartus meeting facilitated on July 21st. That was very likely attended with one of the butter inquiring about setbacks that was addressed on the meeting. The proposal was presented to a West Village neighborhood association on September 18th which included the community process and the proposal was approved and moved forward. To date our office has received one letter of opposition from an abutter opposed to providing a variance of the height and size of the proposal. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We would like to defer to the board for their journey. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are additional comments. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval with provisos that plans are submitted to planning for designer view to work on enhancing the walkway lighting and signage indicating where the main entrance to unit 3 is. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you everybody. Enjoy your Thanksgiving. Thank you. You as well. Next we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. And with that we'll ask if there are any required for all. I believe you missed one. Sorry. There's another six minutes in terms. We're just asking because it's 11 o'clock. We're just asking if there is. Sorry. We'll come back to the cases. That's okay. Yes, Mr. Mr. Brich 32 for street please. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. That would be case. The away. 171. 92.3. With the address of 32 Gordon Street. Go ahead. Attorney's office. Thank you. Mr. Stumberidge. Madam Chair, I'm members of the board of attorney Ryan Spitz with that. I was in Marancy Business Address of 168.8 Street. First floor. I'm here on behalf of my colleague George Marancy. We're requesting a short deferral as the refute as the advertisement was incorrect. I will need to be re-advertised. John. John. Yes. Okay. That may have a motion. Motion. Go ahead now. Motion. Motion. The further the case through the post on this case until January 13. The second. Second. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapraso. Yes. Mr.<|tl|><|en|> Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Any further requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 o'clock timeframe? If not, then we'll return to the last case for schedule for 9.30. And this is case B-O-A174-9533, with the address of 27 to 29 Everett Street. I believe 20 moranties will speak to us. No. There we go. Okay. And this is six men's and terrorists. This came after last. I just want to make sure we have the correct record. I'll tell you. Okay. Thank you for pointing that out. So we're going through a case B-O-A1762986, with the address of six men's and terrorists. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Temperidge. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego, with Drego and Tuscana, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, Justin and Bruce Efron from the Efron Property Group. And we also have David Fried from Chewing Company, who's the architect on the project. What you're looking at is the front of an existing structure. We are not changing anything to the contours of the building. We are changing or seeking to change the occupancy from three residential units to four residential units by way of converting an existing basement space to a residential unit. The total lot of areas, 4,500 square feet. If we go to this slide, and it's actually helpful, there's this particular building falls within an MFR multifamily residential. Zoning to the use is allowed for this particular area, and you'll see, and even in the BPDAs, recommendations that this fits within the housing stock, which is multifamily large apartment style, and also similarly situated buildings that have either attic space or basement space that's been utilized for additional units. And that's what we were trying to do, create one additional unit. The zoning code violations, just to go through them. We got sighted for FAR. What's allowed is one, and we're at 1.1. So slightly over allowable FAR. Off-street parking, although we do have parking on site. This building has two curb cuts. One is shared on the left. The other one has one spot on the right, and there's actually parking in the rear. So we do have parking on site for units. Side setback is a pre-existing violation. The unit in the basement that we're looking to create would be a proposed 18, sorry, 835 square foot, two bedroom, two bath with seven foot six inch ceiling height, two egress on the side and the rear, and that would be sprinkler, of course, as well. And just in terms of BPDA recommendations, they mentioned this really does fit within the context of this area, as well. And with that, I can, this would be a rental unit to stay with the rest of the building. With that, I can, and none of the other building exterior, and they accept for the window wells to create light and air, would be touched on the building. With that, I can pause and answer any questions on the board, man. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Here in Nanmeh, public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed a community process, and a butters meeting was hosted on August 26th of this year, at which no concerns were raised. The Austin Civic Association is in support of this application. That background, our office, de first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. With that, may I have a motion? Most new approve. May I have a second? Second. Okay. Ms. Blastoffbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Berberazzo. Yes. Ms. Uro. Yes. Ms. Dawing. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next. Now we're going to build you a B.O.A. 174-9533, with the address of 27-29 efforts. The applicant and the local representative of the front, they're going to explain to each other. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. The attorney Ryan Spitz put down to Marante business address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. Joining me today are the owners Jason and Hannah Krust. This is a proposal to change the use of an existing three-unit structure to six units by way of a new vertical and rare addition. The commentary family parcel consists of a 5,000 square foot lot, where the rare is entirely paved and used for parking. The proposal falls within a 3F-4,000 sub-district, which results in a use violation. This portion of average street is closer to North Beacon Street, and the abutting property is zoned as guest street LI-2, where this area contains a mix of buildings that are predominantly multi-family units. Also, the property is very close proximity to 15 North Beacon Street, a mix used building with heights ranging from five to 10 stories. The proposal is in line with the goals highlighted and the all-step bright needs assessment January 2024 for housing and density. You hit one will be located within the original building on floors one in the basement at approximately 2,000 square feet. You hit two will be located on the second floor of the original building at approximately 1162 square feet. Unit 3 will be located on the second floor of the addition at approximately 800 square feet. Unit 4 will be located on the third floor of the original building at approximately 1,095 square feet. Unit 5 will be located on the third floor of the addition at approximately 800 square feet. And Unit 6 will be located entirely on the fourth floor at approximately 1262 square feet. We have additional violations for the additional lot, the requirement that the sub-district is 2,000 square feet per additional unit. But this proposal is aligned with many of the other properties that do not meet this requirement. Hight, we have a violation both in stories and feet. The maximum building height is three stories and 35 feet. And the proposal calls for four stories and 46 feet. But consistent with other properties along this portion of the average street to name a few, 24, 25, 9, 1, 2 and 12 average street. We have a four area ratio violation. Zoning allows for a .8 in this proposal calls for a 1.42, which is also comparable to other multi-unit buildings in this area. Radar, the insufficiency zoning requires 30 feet and proposal calls for 18 feet. But I like to mention that this is directly a budding a lot of that's used currently for parking in the rear. Open space violation 650 square feet is required for each dwelling in this proposal calls for 25 square feet per dwelling. And lastly, parking is sufficient, code requires 1.75 spaces per unit. And this proposal calls for four total spaces, which is aligned with the maze initiative, reducing dependency on private vehicles. Especially where the site is in close proximity to transit options. And I'd like to end it by mentioning that the proposal is very consistent with the planning department's recommendation of approval. At this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed a community process are off the socials and a butter's meeting on August 19th at which no concerns were raised. The applicant also met with the All-Stand Civic Association. They're letter raised to concern about displacement of any tenants that currently occupy the property, but their membership voted to support this application. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Good. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Madam Chair, may I have a motion? I put forward a motion of approval with the providers on that the plans are submitted to the planning department for design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Sherbolts, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. At this time, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for the November AM. We have to begin, we have two companion cases. The first is case BOA 169 2087 with the address of 15 to 19 Edden Barrow Street. Along with that, we have case BOA 169 2090, also with the address of 15 to 19 Edden Barrow Street. It's the applicant there, nor their representative or president. Will they please explain the cases to the board? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Sean Regan with a business address of 125 High Street, Boston, at the law firm of Dalton and Fine Gold. Here representing the project proponents, the Loon family, Realty Trust. The project is located at 15 to 17 Edden Barrow, or more commonly known as the Moonville Restaurant Building. With me today is the project architect Phil Horesco. Today, we are simply seeking to legalize the wrong existing uses that have been at the property for well over 30 years. This legalization has resulted in a simple parking violation and the need to make certain building code improvements, which also require the approval of this board. And no changes are being made to any uses or to the structure beyond those required to bring the project up to building code. And so with that, I would like to pause and either offer up the project architect to answer any questions or simply answer any questions from the board at this time. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office of the neighborhood services regarding 15 to 19 Edden Barrow Street office diverse to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including an up-and-coming meeting held on 4-3-25 that was well attended by the training town community members. The feedback from this meeting was support for the proposal and an addition of housing. The proposal was also reviewed by the China Town Neighborhood Council on 4-14-25 and has received support regarding this proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services differs from the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, next. We have Ashley from Consular Flames Office. Hi, my name is Ashley from Consular Flames Office. Consular Flamble Life School on Record and Support based on a good community process conducted by the opponents team, which resulted in the support of both the China Town residents and association and China Town Neighborhood Council. Consular Flamble respectfully requests that the proponent continued work closely with the community on all neighborhood and quality of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. There is one more person, but I don't think that I'm not sure if this person is for this case. No, she's asking you about it. Yes, she's asking you please. Okay. Hello. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? May I ask you a motion? Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Rueh. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you all. Next, we have case made of it. 169-7382 with the address of 417-421-HR7. This is a cannabis case and has 50 applicants and or the representative or present to explain to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. My name is James Christopher 686 architects with the business address of 10 folks road. I'm here today on behalf of Zina's dispensary and Immanuel Monte, who is on the call as well as the owner and the security specialist for the Spenceary. If you go to the next slide, please. Essentially, this is a tenant fit out of an existing commercial building to be used as a cannabis dispensary. The existing basement is currently has in bathrooms and storage rooms down there. Next slide, please. This is the existing first floor. Again, previously used as a different commercial space. We intend to rework this space to be used as a cannabis dispensary. And then here's our exterior elevations. Next slide, please. Keep going. Thank you. This is our proposed plan. So, within the proposed basement, we would have an additional office in a storage area and the sprinkler room for the, sorry, storage and additional employee space. Next slide, please. On the first floor, at the left end of the building, we would have our controlled entry. So, the, um, the, um, the client would come in. Uh, their ID. We have a two step verification process. It would be verified here. When they, uh, when ready, they'd be entered into the, um, the sales flow, which is to the right end of this plan here. Uh, they'd go through, make their purchase, head to the, the pay terminals, and then exit. Pretty consistent with, um, other marijuana, um, uses and functions in the city. Next slide, please. Um, very little change to the exterior. We'll build a new parapet while new windows and doors. Sexly, this is a tenant fit out. The use is conditional. The project has received approval from the cannabis control commission. We supported by the local butters and civic association. I believe some city councils have provided letters to support. Um, the odds of operation will be Monday through Friday, nine to, sorry, Monday through Saturday, nine to 10. Uh, and then, uh, Sunday, 10 to eight. So without all the hand in over to answer any questions that I can. Questions from the board. Yes, I have one small one. I just like the know what kind of security system you guys going to have. Sure. Um, an annual who is on the call. Here's one of the owners is also a security background and specialist. Uh, we'll have a full, um, camera system that will record at 24 hour intervals. Um, high death, interior and exterior. Um, we'll have, uh, um, uh, security personnel are insightful time as well. As well as, uh, protocols for calling in any incidents to BPD, the security team and ownership. Thank you. Where's Shandong? Yes. Yes, can I be business should be located at least for a half a mile from, no 500 feet from schools. I understand that this building is close to the field break elementary school. That's correct. Thank you. That school will be closing at the end of this year. Um, so that, uh, uh, by the time this project is operational, that school in the long, uh, be an operation. Okay. And is this a minority applicant? It is. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Rosalindale Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of, uh, the applicant was held on January 25th. Some residents expressed concern about a potential uptick and litter and loadering. Other residents left excited about this, just moving into a long, big and storefront, and the prospect of the dispensary generated foot traffic. The applicant met with a local civic Mount O'Cantaberry, which opted not to take a stance. They were approved by the Boston cannabis. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. We'd like to go on record in non-opposition. We did connect with Mount O'Cant. Sorry about that. We'd like to go on record in non-opposition. Mount O'Cantaberry also was a non-opposition, so you just wanted to confirm that. And thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, you have a picture of your own. I'm sure you want to tell us a few things. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have patient B.O.A. 173-365-1 with the address of 26 foreign police. If the applicant and the other representative are present, will they please explain the case to the report? Yes, good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Janice and this is my husband Dave. We are looking at building two family homes in the lot across from where we currently live with hopes of moving into one of them to expand our family. And of course move my mother and whose been elderly and has been looking to sort of move in with us in order to provide her with the necessary support. We held an emergency meeting. We met all of our neighbors prior to that with no opposition and I'll pass over to my husband Dave. Thank you Janice. I'm going to run down the request that we have for violations relief. Starting with the first one insufficient lot area per unit. What we did to keep this consistent with the original plan for the area that we had for our place in 1984, the plan that they passed had approximately a thousand square feet per unit which we're consistent with. The next one is excessive fire. This is mainly driven by finishing the basement in the building or is driven by finishing the basement in the building. The next one is the building height exceeded. We did consider this and discuss this with the butters as well. This is why when you look at the design, there's a head house. The actual beginning of the roof starts at 41 and a half and the peak is at 43.6, which is also consistent with two of the buildings that have been recently updated in our area in 2000, sorry, 2016 in 2025 in our neighborhood. The next one insufficient front yard setback. This was actually addresses it another violation below, but is basically good lines of building up with the other structures on the butter place roads when you turn down and looks correct. This looks nice when you come down at the beginning of the street on the private way. Location of parking. The parking is on the corner. We're reasonably willing to put the place to parking for both units where they are. It also reduces traffic on the butter place park. Sorry, the butter place private way. Therefore, it only really goes by one unit and people will be able to park and they'll leave the rest of the units with the open space on the team with no traffic. It's the next location. Traffic visibility around the corner. Again, we'll replace the building. This approximately 13 feet for the corner. There's only three units that are passed that are so there are approximately three cars again on a dead end on a private way. And the final one is vision parking. Consistent again with the plan. We do the original but our place plan would just have one unit per one car per unit. And with that, I'll pass over to our architect Nick Landry to run through the plans. Thank you, Dave. Nick Landry from DRT. I actually I don't know how much more you guys want me to run through the plans. I think they did a great job. Nick, can you scroll up to the third slide? I think it is. It's a site plan, the proposed site plan. When we're down a couple. Sorry. One more, one more. Perfect. So, uh, he's second street is up at the top of this plan, but our place comes down off of that. And then there's a tee at the end. And as Dave mentioned, you can see we have parking on either side of our structure. And that parking will allow for some sight lines, but it's essentially a private way. And there's only four cars. They're going to be that they're parked as you come down the street and you take a left. There will be four cars. There's a lot of traffic going to be over there for the site line concerns. Aside from that, if there's any other questions, I'm not going to circle back. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I'm mayor of public testimony. Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This application completed a community process. Our office of city and the butter is meeting on August 13th at which a butter is supportive of the proposal. The gate of heaven neighborhood association is in non opposition. That background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. And it's will have actually from consular of a fling. Council of the council. Council of the lights go on record and support. The meeting. And you move folks who are not speaking. Thank you. Council of the lights go on record and support based on a good community process and the proponent working closely with neighbors and the butters in the. And the proposed area. He respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with the community on any neighborhood and quality of life issues during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. We have somebody from the section. Jen. Yes. Say good morning, Madam Chair and board members. My name is Jennifer Salman. I've lived on Benad for 31 years at 10 Benad Place. Ms. Provincenial confirm via email that you received my detailed letter and support of this project. So I'll just reiterate that. Janice and Dave are wonderful involved people in the community for 11 years now. They communicated with the neighborhood steadily and considered our feedback throughout their planning process. I attended their butters meeting to review the designs once again and remain 100% in support of their project. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I'm sure there are no additional comments. Will that may I have motion? I'm motion to approve. Is there a second? Back yes. Mr. Stambrinch. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barbrazo. Yes. Mr. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Madam, here we arrive at 1130. So this time we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or the throws from the little 30 times. My boss? No. Mr. Ross, are you trying to? Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. Can you hear me? Sorry about that. Yes, we can. My apologies. Good morning. I am looking at 26 Wyndham pleads. Because I supposed to give you the reason or does he read it into the record first or? No. Thank you. Thank you. So this would be for case B.O.A. 176 9103 with the address of 26 Wyndham Street. Go ahead and try to pass. Thank you. So these are their changes to the plan that need to be advertised by ZVA staff. We appear at subcommittee on October 23rd in a butter request that we increase the RERIARC setback, which we agreed to do, and we're doing that. But also, remember, Beto Barrazo correctly pointed out that a use variance should be applied due to the fact that the ADU is a bump out. And so we have since gotten that put on to the refusal and that needs to be advertised. And I think the next available meeting that you have would be great. I just think they needed another week or so to get that advertised staff. Thank you for having me for a moment. Where was there? We have that for the subcommittee. December 16th. December 16th. Okay, great. Thank you so much. They have a motion. Motion to prefer this case. So the subcommittee is 16th. And then the second. Second. That's the subcommittee. Mr. Spemberidge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Mr. Langham. Is Mr. Langham with us? I see you. Alan. Mr. Langham. Yes. Thank you. You were on. Sorry. Chair votes. Yes. Thank you very much. Have a nice day. Anyone else who speak to. Um, lots of the. Yes. I, um, my name is Jody Sanchez. And I'm here in connection with 501 Boilson Street on behalf of ownership. Um, and I represent. I'm from Wilson. Let, let Mr. Yes. December. Read it into the record first. Certainly. So this would be for case. Be away. 167. 030. 490. With the address of 501 Boilson Street. Go ahead and explain. Please. Thank you very much. My name is Jody Sanchez from Wilson and Stores representing the ownership. Um, we would like to request a deferral. Um, to permit our air pollution control commission process to. Um, commencing and can and conclude. We're currently aiming for each January hearing. Um, on January 14th. So we respectfully request a hearing date for the ZBA after that. Okay. Uh, you know. January 27th. That's perfect. Okay. That may have motion. Motion to defer to January 27th. Second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. His turn. Yes. He's better was. Yes. This we well. Yes. Mr Langham. Yes. Here votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Any further request for withdrawals of the vote? Good morning. This is Selling Rose. I'm sorry. It's just to confirm this is for the 11th. 11th 30s. Are you requesting a deferral? Yes. Please. Madam Chair, for 122. Would that? Okay. Mr. Stonebridge. There are two cases. The first one is through companion cases. The first one is case of B.O.A. 169. 08. 59. With the address of 122. What happened? Along with that, we have case of B.O.A. 169. 0861. Also with the address of 122. Would it happen? Would you go ahead and explain please? Yes, please. Thank you. Yes. So basically, a transfer submitted with revisions. And we receive an updated refusal letter. And it's in the process of being re-outed and tights. And we will need some extra time to go through this process. Okay. So we have the address of 122. Okay. Okay. We have also December 16th. December 16th, ma'am. Yes. Okay. That's what we have with that. We have a motion. Motion to defer this case until December 16th. Madam Chair, second. Can I ask you as a resident? So we are deferring the case. So this is about this case. This has been the second or third deferment. We need an hour. We need an hour. Thank you. Is there going to be a real continuing wait? Okay. Did I have a motion and a second? Who seconded? I do. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. You , I believe you have cases less than 10. Yes. and we missed about 2 cases. What case are you on? I apologize. A Washington Street. A Washington Street? One whatever. Yeah. I know it's been before Centers street was not called yet. That's laminar. And stretch. Alright. We spoke to our three cases, sure. We'll begin with case B-O-A, 176-6192, with the address of 1948 to 1950 Washington Street. If they out again and do other representors, that's what we've there. Hi, this is Sri Lanka. Welcome. Yeah, thank you Madam Chair. And members of the board for giving me this opportunity to speak today. My name is Srivani Desanidi, owner, manager of Crystal Stones, finite dining restaurant at 1950 Washington Street. I'm here today regarding my application to Zoning area of my restaurant for live entertainment. We have already designated a specific area on our current approved plan, which includes two standing space. We now seek to repurpose and zone this area for live entertainment. Our goal is to introduce cultural experience to our diners and to create opportunities for local artists to perform. We build this additional and reach our space and support the community and enhance our overall dining experience. We have been working in a restaurant industry for a very decade and have experience hosting the live entertainment and have established a enjoyable experience for guests and it was well received by the neighbors. Thank you again for your time in consideration. What hours are you planning to provide the live entertainment? We are hoping to do it from 11.30 AM until 3 AM on the weekends. And on all other days we will be having it around 7 PM until 11 PM. So I'm sorry, what are the hours of your establishment if you are at the end of the meeting? 11.30 AM. Yeah, 11, sorry, I mean 3 PM. So from 11 AM to 3 PM is afternoon timings on the weekends like the Saturdays and Sundays we would also like to post it on the afternoon 11.30 AM. And on all other days we will be having like 7 PM till 11 PM. Okay, thank you for confirming. Qualifying. Questions from the board? What kind of entertainment are you going to have here? We are going to have singers sing either Indian culture music or any of the traditional music. Sometimes we also have like tabla and an instrument also performed. We also tried with the one time live entertainment at our space and it was well received by the neighbors and the guys. Other questions from the board? Yeah, public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Roxbury Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The public can ask completed the community process which consisted of an about as many facilities at the end of September 15th. That was very well likely attended with two guests in attendance. An inquiry on the expected noise level that was addressed during the meeting. And following the about as many no further community process was required and the close was grouped and moved forward. To date our office has received two letters expressing concerns for how the trash is being handled and disposed on the property. But as reported trash bottles and cans being dumped on the property and the order of food and spices being overwhelming are in the gender of a city. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office is where the services were elected to refer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. May I have a motion? Motion of approval. Okay, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B-O-A-177-07-24. With the addedness of 44th Census Street. It's the applicant's end or their representative present. Would their police explain the case in court? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Jeff Drego with Drego in Tuscany, with the business address. All the live in Beacon Street, here on behalf of the owners of the land, and Lisa Berger and Ed Blank. There are a couple and they actually own the building next door at 48th Census Street, which I'll get into in existing one family in the Roxbury neighborhood. We also have Michael Chavez, who's the architect who designed the plans that we're going to be showing today. This particular rendering, Mr. Ambassador, you just said on that for a second, shows the new proposed one family structure on the five parcels. I can go to the next slide. The proposal from my client is to combine six parcels. You can see in this aerial view, the project site is open space. It involves five parcels plus the existing single family to then be subdivided into two parcels. Both would include a one family dwelling. They currently live in the existing building on the right. It's a house that they restored over the years. Their idea now is they're getting to retirement age is to build this new house that they can utilize. It would have all new features and amenities. It's not a large building. It's also easy to maintain. It has parking in the interior of the building that we're proposing. This particular lot was zoned as open space urban wild. And in speaking with Jeff Hampton, the BPDA, everything else around here had changed to 3F or multifamily residential. As you can see, there's large apartment style complexes across the street. And there's really no other structures besides a few buildings in the immediate area and then you get in the rare. This appears to be something we think, and speaking with the BPDA, that was missed when they upzoned or changed the zoning. The lots were obtained through the garage sale program years ago through public facilities back in 1991. Those restrictions last for 30 years, no more. And then they expire and folks have the right to development. So these are now taxable parcels. My client wants to utilize the land for themselves, felt that a one family given everything else that's around here seems to be larger and it's a 3F district was reasonable. We got cited for one violation, which was usable open space being insufficient. I could not find that anywhere in the code. I did question and special services department in the plans examiner. They felt what they cited for was correct. I know the BPDA and their letter also mentions this as well. However, we're moving forward obviously with the proposal. The building for plate is 1,120 square feet for the new one family. It resembles a barn style look and the reason being is there was an older barn of similar style that was on the site years ago. My clients restored the house to the right. They wanted to replicate this look for themselves, something different, something unique. But we also said it so that we leave the majority of the open space on the lot. So this will have 5,778 square feet of open space on that parcel that will be maintained in left is grain space. We will also have a rare setback of almost 36 feet, a side yard setback of 43.5 feet on one side and 20 feet and a half on the other side and a 15 foot front yard setback. Just to keep that open space and minimalize the size, the building, the building would have utilities only in the basement, a sub basement, a two car garage at grade that would have an open living space kitchen area in bathroom and then upstairs would have the bedroom and an open living area with a bathroom. And this would be for them. We also fall within the Highland Park architectural district and we did have an initial meeting. Obviously they wait till zoning if to be approved to make final designs. But we would have to go back as part of that landmarks process with them as well. So we also have from our immediate butters holding 1,2 feet for seven letters of support from 45 center, 47 center, 64 center that were submitted 51, 166 high gate that's off the side as well. With that I can pause to answer, oh and just a point I'm sorry if you go through the plans for a second, Mr. Ambassador, there is this would have a shared driveway and another point and the BPDA note is we're maintaining almost all of the trees. So three trees would have to come down but all of the rest would remain on site. There is a site plan I just wanted to point out because I think it's helpful. One more down, I believe once we get one more down. Yes right here, right here, thank you. So if there's an existing curb cut it would just be slightly enlarged. It would have one space for the existing one family and then a path that would lead to the two interior garages. But I think this is helpful for the board to visualize the tree canopies and then also the open space that would remain on the site. So with that I can pause, any questions or the architect and answer any questions from the board. Hearing none, may I pull the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberi, I'm the Roxbury community and Gatorian Specialist at the Office of Newport Services. The applicant has completed the community process, was consisted of a lightly attended abuters meeting facilitated on June 18th where everybody's voice concerns for occupancy and whether it would be owned or occupied for rent or for sale as well as an open space concern for the violation. More than once about his voice, the barn is out of character for the neighborhood. One of what a voice support for the proposal and required if the curb cut would be wider. Next to where the opponent was under the Highland Park neighborhood association, where they voted to oppose the proposal stating there was a concern for green space and the removal of trees. The association also signed up the deed stating the six locks were deem restricted as urban wilder request the board to overturn the proposal. Unfortunately, our office does not have any levels of support. I'm not okay. Actually, apparently, the letters were sent approximately one up by email. I do apologize. I have a chance to review those letters they were just sent to the CBA, but there appears to be some letters of support. Thank you for your time and then there's obviously a bit of services we'd like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. We have one person from the Attorney's Secretary John seems to. Yes. Yes, you can say your name and others please. Thank you. My name is Joan Seenster. I live in a Highland Park about two and a half walks away. I participated in the initial meeting with the HPNC. I'm not in a butter. I was asked to attend this call and reflect the community comments and some of the reasons for why the HPNC, which is the Highland Park neighborhood coalition, rejected the proposal. There are three major issues. One is the size and the color of that barn. The rest of that street is single homes, quiet colors, and contrast and conflict to this proposed barn. It's a very visible street and so people have asked for this proposed rallying to fit more into the rest of the neighborhood because it's a really important piece of our neighborhood and it's very visible. Secondly, yes, it was urban wild. I'm just going to update the language instead of a garage sale of the yard sale back in 1991 and yes, the time has expired. People would really like the neighborhood would really like that urban wild to be respected. So that's the second issue. And then thirdly, it has... Okay, Madam Chair. There are no... was planning as you're ended up. Don't you hear from this? Oh sorry, this is not my project. I was just getting promoted for the next. Okay, all right. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Does the applicant want to briefly address the comment? Thank you, Madam Chair. So one, just on the size and scope of the other buildings, if you look at the street, the other building is their building that's one family. As you go across the street in the rare, all the buildings are larger than their building. We purposely kept this building to an 1,120 square foot one bedroom with interior parking to minimize that issue and we also have almost 6,000 square feet of the lot as open space. I think folks really misunderstood the deed restriction was the same. And I have a copy of the deed restriction is the same deed restriction that's put on all of these shards sale or garage sale lots. And that's that for that period of time it's either used for parking, which we could... Which can be used now. It doesn't mean it's all going to be maintained as open space. Can be used for an addition to the existing structure, meaning housing could go there as long as an addition during that period and our open space. So we felt given the fact that that's long been expired and the need for housing, they're going to live there and it's a minimal one family. We felt that was very reasonable in comparison to the other building. So thank you. Thank you. I have a question. Can I ask you now, Madam Chair? Yes. Okay. Can you just describe, are you waiting for the conservation deed restriction to be lifted by the PFC, who was originally the one that designated it? We're not Ms. Adabarazzo, the time period as a lapse. Now that if we were to be approved to something, we would just get the release from them knowing that and I've already spoke to them. So there was a duration and if that lapse, it just closed originally without the restriction to the owner. So yeah, so under Massachusetts statute as well, it can only be 30 years at maximum. So sometimes they're 20, sometimes at 25, this was 30. Okay. And is there precedent in the nearby area that it has been lifted and the land goes back to residential use? Has there been a precedent? Perhaps, I mean, I personally have represented a number of the members to this board even where these have expired and now it's time to create. That was the whole point and then how is the building built on it after? Yeah, that's really helpful because I know how the urban wild is such a necessity at times in urban neighborhoods in regards to climate change. Sure. Let's answer that. With that, Madam Chair, I would like to prefer a motion of approval with a proposal that the project goes through, Boston Climate Commission for review, if required. There's second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bervazza. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case merely 1-7-5-6-1-5-6 with the address of 8 Frost Avenue. It's the applicants and to where they represent a present where they push splints and boil. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with Anderson Marancy, business address of 168 in each street for a small self-hosted. Joining me today is the owner Andrew Ollrich as well as the project architect David Fried. This is a proposal to re-act free new town homes in a deumerexpansion to an existing single-family dwelling for a total of four units. The town homes will create more home ownership opportunities within this neighborhood. The current single-family castle consists of a very large lot of 10,140 square feet and falls within a 2F-5,000 sub-district which results in the use violation. The addition will have three town homes. Each town home will consist of a basement. First, second and third floor containing three bedrooms and office in an open concept living dining room with an exclusive use roof deck. Each town home will be approximately 2068 square feet. All units will have great level parking access via an existing curb cut. We have additional violations for height. We have a violation in stories as we are proposing three stories due to the elevation drop going from the front of the property down to the rear and in two and a half is what is compliant by the code. The relief is consistent within the neighborhood. Further, the proposal is compliant in respect to feet. We also have a floor area ratio of violations zoning allows for a .5 and this proposal calls for a slight increase to a .81 which is actually low compared to some of the neighboring properties that we do have. In last and ending, this proposal is aligned with the BPDAs planning recommendation for approval and I just like to note that you all should have 28 letters of support including the local civic group for this proposal. So Madam Chair, at this point I'm going to pause and turn it over to you and the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony. A little Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Epitune. I'm representing the mayor's office knee-bread services. Regarding eight frosts to have our office differs from the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted including on a butters meeting held on 81925 attended by several community members in the doorchester neighborhood. The feedback from this meeting was primarily opposition to the proposal setting the character of the neighborhood laws of green space and continued parking issues in the neighborhood. Although there were two constituents who did not have concern for the proposal and felt that it would be a good addition to the neighborhood. Additionally, my office has received 32 letters in support. 11 from direct the butters citing the wonderful addition to the neighborhood and the benefit of more families living in the neighborhood. I've also received six letters in opposition. Three from direct the butters expressing that the applicant did not provide an adequate hardship to the community. The fact that the law is not actually unique and is quite common in the neighborhood and that the attorney minimized the actual impacts to the community. The proposal was also reviewed by the Polk's Hill Neighborhood Civic Association and they've expressed support for this proposal citing the benefit of additional housing to the neighborhood. The good community engagement conducted by the applicant and the support received by direct the butters. They have also provided a formal letter of support submitted to the board. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services differ as to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone for your time consideration. Thank you. Hello, I'm Adam Chairman's board, Liam Remiss from Councilor Fitzgerald's office, officer let go on records, for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. We have Anthony Gilarli. Morning. Sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm the member of the Polk idea, the majority from City Council, our Murphy's Office, the Council would like to go on record in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. And we have Mary. Hi, my name is Mary Cooney. My husband and I have a 27-about-well street view around the corner. Part of interest, a little of opposition was submitted. That fully explains our position and I'll summarize now. On November 6th, we received a copy of the ZBA appeal application that showed incomplete documentation as well as being unsigned. We imposed this project because no hotchips to justify the variances were explained as required on that appeal application, which is treated as a legal document. We imposed a project because although we would welcome the owner to the neighborhood in his single family home or with a project that conforms to the 2F 5000 zoning, this plan would significantly alter the neighborhood density, setting a precedent by building a forbidden housing type without justification and adding at least 12 bedrooms. If it's increased density around transit as a city goal, but we were a mile away and obviously until zoning reform happens this board should make decisions with an accurate and complete application and we believe that no one in this neighborhood benefits went hardships for variances that would so significantly alter this neighborhood district aren't required. So we respectfully request that the board delay or deny this appeal. Thank you. Thank you. We have a dream. A dream? Hi, good morning. Thank you. I live at 11 Frostab which is directly across the street. We are opposed to this as the street is a tiny one way off a dead end and it's too congested as it is. There's no parking to begin with which is an issue to begin with now but again there's no parking and it's very congested. We are opposed to it. Okay. I'm sure I think there was one more person who... I don't see a raised hand. All right. So any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Yes. I'm sure I'm going to have a approval with a provides that plans be submitted to a planning department for the sanitary room. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Good. Thank you. The next case has been postponed to FERF. Madam Chair, since it is new time we will proceed to the end. The interpretation is scheduled for a schedule for new time. Begin with case B-O-A 168 9794 with the address of 62 to 66 Condo Street. The applicant and or their representative or president will they please explain to the board. Yes. Thank you again, Mr. Stembridge. I'll make this quick for the chair and for the board members. This is a deferral. We're just about through working it out with ISD on some of the violations. I know some of them have already been removed. We have a few remaining that we're working through. So I'm going to ask for a brief deferral on this one. Thank you. It's been these January 13th. That's fine. Okay. I have a motion. Motion to defer to January 13th. It's like that. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bervaza. Yes. This we won't. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next one we will withdraw. We resolve all the issues with ISD on that. So that would be for case B-O-A 168 529 9. There's with the address of 265 to 269 9. And off we go. Yeah. For the right. Richard Lins. Business Adder of 2.45 Summars Church on the record that we did receive an updated refusal with the violations that we were requesting interpretation on removed. So we are satisfied that ISD has a correct. So we respectfully request to draw this appeal. Thank you. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Then I'll be ready to move. That this way. We will move on. Thank you. We'll have a second. So I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Bervaza. Yes. Mr. Ruiwell. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. I have a wonderful thanks. Give it. Thank you. And with that I'm going to have us take a 15 minute break. Thank you. Recordings stopped. Mr. Stembridge. President Madam Chair. Mr. Valencia. President Lamjir. Mr. Turner. President Madam Chair. It's better for us. President. It's be well. President. Mr. Lino. President. Okay. Flores, your eyes on Mr. Stembridge. Thanks. Madam Chair. The first case has been deferred. We'll go. This will be for the rediscussion schedule for 1130 AM. The first case has been deferred. So that takes us to case BOA 176-5730 with the address of 75-77 North-Chess of St. This is also an article eight case. And if the applicant and or their representative present, would they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with that is a Marancy joining me. Well, with the business address of 168A Street. First floor joining me today are the owners Jim and Andrew Steteris as well as the project architect Tim Johnson. The proposed project consists of a new five-story mix use building at 75-77 North-Chess of St. The new building will contain 15 residential units including three income restricted affordable units pursuant to Article 79's inclusionary zoning requirements and an expanded restaurant space. Project site includes 4,330 square feet of land. The doichester street parcels are currently the site of a one-story restaurant, also known as Stats Bar and Grill and a two-family dwelling. The project site is within a multi-family local services zoning sub-district under Article 68. Proposed project will offer many public benefits to the surrounding neighborhood and to the city of Boston including creation of 15 new dwelling units along along with three affordable units, generations of tens of thousands of dollars in revenue and leads to the city of Boston. The expected creation of approximately 50 construction industry jobs to complete the proposed project. A one-time bike share contribution of 4,500 dollars to the Boston transportation department and improvements of the public realm. The site is currently zoe for multi-family residential use in the surrounding areas of mixed use in nature. The proposal will add to the mix of emerging multi-story multi-family housing and commercial spaces in and around Perkins Square in on West Broadway. The proposed project will complement similar projects nearby and recently approved including 457 through 469 West Broadway, 472 West Broadway, and 482 through 482 West Broadway. The site is located to the active Perkins Square and within a 15-minute walk of both Andrew and Broadway red line rapid transit stations. Multiple modes of public transportation are available to businesses and residents in and around Perkins Square including trains, buses, zip cars, and blue and blue bike stations. Due to the concerns from the surrounding neighbors, the owners were able to negotiate an agreement for 50 off-site parking spaces on an abutting lot across the street between Athens Street and West Thurard Street for a total of 15 years. Page XO1 shows images of the existing site. Page C01 shows the proposed site plan including the widening of sidewalks of Dwitches to Street and Athens Street. There will also be two new street trees as well as a new race crosswalk to enhance pedestrian safety. Page O3, let me go back one more. Page O-A-O1 and A-O2 shows the basement in the ground floor which consists of 3,519 square feet of new expanded restaurant space. Based on that we'll also contain the restrooms and storage. Each floor will also be accessed by elevator. On the ground floor in the rear we'll contain the trash room in a by-room which could be accessed directly off of Athens Street. Page O-A-O3 is the second floor plan. Contained units 1 through 4 with a mix of 1 and 2 beds ranging from 690 square feet to 988 square feet. Page O4 is the third floor plan containing units 5 through 8 with a mix of 1 and 2 beds ranging from 690 square feet to 988 square feet. And again page O5 is the fourth level plan containing units 9 through 12 with a mix of 1 and 2 beds ranging from 690 square feet to 988 square feet. And lastly page A-O6 is the fifth floor plan containing units 13 through 15 with 2 beds in one bed ranging from 597 square feet to 898 square feet. Page O-A-O1 through V-O6 will show you the contextual photos of the building itself. We have the following violations. It's sufficient lot size and an additional lot size as this proposal falls with an MFRLS sub-district. The lot size requirements is 5,000 square feet and 1,000 square feet for each additional unit. The current lot size is 1,330 square feet but this proposal was aligned with many of the other properties in this area that do not meet this requirement. Uses forbidden and conditional restaurant is a conditional use but a large restaurant will take out as a forbidden use. Again that's pre-existing as well as in that location at this point but the uses are consistent with other surrounding uses within this neighborhood. Roof structure restriction since we are demolishing the existing structures the new development height exceeds the height of those existing structures. There is also a height violation as 35 feet is co-compliant and the proposal calls for 50 feet but again the proposed height is consistent with some of the recently approved projects in this area. Further you may recall from the drawings the proposed building is attached to a six-story built. We have an S-excessive FAR 1.5 is allowed by the code and the proposal C-S4.4 again which is also comparable to other multi-unit buildings in this area. Open space 200 square feet per unit as a result of the community process. All roofed exit balconies removed due to the concerns of the community which generated the open space violation. Sideyard a three foot requirement is required but this type of setback is consistent with other mixed uses of buildings in this area. We've rarely out of a shell a lot I believe this was cited in error as this is a corner line and rarely I do not apply. We have an off-street loading requirement. The requirement of proposal like this requires one loading bay and this proposal does not provide one. I'd also like to correct the advertisement as the stating that there is a proposed loading dock on a different log which is untrue. There may have been an image on one of the drawings implying such but that has been revised and removed to clear out any sort of discrepancies. Off-street parking violation one space per one bedroom units in 1.5 parking spaces for the two bedroom units is the code requirement. The proposal does not include any parking on site however in good fate the owners have secured the 15 off-site parking spaces for this proposal hence the reasoning for the violation there and lastly we have the traffic visibility across the corner. This is a corner lot that has a structure that's fallen in two and a half feet so at this point Madame Chair I know that's a lot of information I'm going to turn it back over to you and the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Madame Chair board members, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, this application underwent a Boston Planning Department led article 80 community process which solicited public comments public comments raising concerns included concerns about a new height precedent in this corridor as well as concerns about whether the off-site parking spaces that have been promised are formalized in language relating to this approval today. No civic association Joseph take a position on this proposal with that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. No, actually from a Councillor Flemnes office. Right, my name is Ashley from Councillor Flemnes office. Councillor Flemme would like to go on record and support while he acknowledges and shares concerns from neighbors as it relates to the height. Councillor Flemnes supports stems from a series of good faith compromises by the proponent on quality of life issues. These include securing 15 parking spaces in the nearby lot removal of all decks and balconies windows on Athens Street being inoperable agreed to discontinue outdoor dining trash stores located with the interior of the building and bumping out the crosswalk to the opposite side of Georgia Street and Athens Street to provide additional on street parking along with three affordable housing units. While Councillor Flemnes acknowledges concerns remain from neighbors he is aware of the cities continued advocacy to reduce or eliminate parking in new developments and he appreciates the team willingness to work on concerns related to self-bossing existing parking crisis among other quality of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Anthony Gilarby. We would have to know Madam Chair and members of the board, the official ID from City Council and Murphy's Office, the council would like to go on record in support of this application. And since this is my last case I just want to wish everybody a very happy thanksgiving. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And next we have Dila Norris. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Dila Norris. I'm the project manager with the development review division at the planning department for this article ADE Small Project before you just to outline the article ADE process. This the proponent team filed a small project review application on February 6th of 2025 which was distributed through the South Boston neighborhood distribution lists. Planning department then also sponsored and hosted a virtual public meeting on May 6th 2025. Public meetings were posted on the planning department calendar advertised in local newspapers and email notifications were sent. All subscribers of the South Boston neighborhood email update list. Look at the local elected officials and their staff were also in the fight of the meeting. The comment period on this small project review application closed on May 13th. The project was then brought before and approved at the BPDA Board in June of this year. So happy to take any questions. Members of the board have related to article ADE process but we defer on the decision. Thank you. Thank you. And then we style a frank from this. Yes. Frank Nippenberg, 289 West Third Street, South Boston resident of the community for 20 years would like to go on support of the project. Stats has been a great member of the community and I believe they should be able to move forward the project and it's consistent with other buildings in the area that have recently been constructed. Thank you. Thank you. Your last person is Rick Baker. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Rick Baker. I live at 480 West Broadway directly next door to the project and my family and I are in full support of this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah. Would that be a motion? Okay. Make a motion. I'm going to put it on. There. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Erner. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Miss Weewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chair. Next we have two companion or collating cases. The first is case B.O.A. 176. 566. 64. With the address of 80 Smith Street. Along with that we have case B.O.A. 176. 5668. With the address of 100 Smith Street. Genetics with two other collating cases. If the applicant and other representative will explain the cases of the board. I see. I see you Mr. Henry. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Secretary Madam Chairman was the board attorney Joe Hanley from Thermal Quoting Law and Hanley representing the developer mission associates. It's also the owner of Dave McKay's. They're representatives with us today. Also with us has been won from Rodearchitects. I'm going to take you through very quickly the first six or seven slides and then ask Ben to take you very quickly through the project plans. Stay on this if you may just for a quick minute. You will see the project site indicated with the arrow. 80 and 100 Smith Street. Those are the two proposed new buildings. 90 is an existing building to remain. You will see that to the north across Smith Street is Mission Main apartments. Which is an important stakeholder in the neighborhood that we've worked closely with on this project. And to the south beneath on the plan is our Lady of Perpetual Health Mission Church Basilica. In campus this combined site is almost 1.5 acres. At one point it was part of the Mission Church included St. Alfonso's Hall and the Convent. Those were approved for demolition in 2005 and have since been raised. So we now have two vacant lots on each side of this large property site. Next slide please. So project timeline just basically what's unique here about this case is in 2005 this board or the zoning board at the time. Approved a residential development of two buildings and also to reutilize the existing middle building at 90. It was slightly taller, a little more units. Obviously some things happened in 2008. And the relief is no longer in effect. And so we returned to our notice and project change with the BPDA in 2022. So we spent the last three years really digging in on this notice project to change real quickly. Back in 2005 this was subject to the BC DC, Boston Civic Design Commission. And for this NPC of the last three years we had the benefit of returning to the BC DC. We also had an extensive process where there was a scoping DPRR issue that we worked through and resulted in the approval of the BPDA board in January of this year. Next slide please. So just quickly to show you the history of what I was talking about. You will see in the plan. Plan right is what is being proposed. The plan left is what was approved in 2005. We have made major improvements to it. The zoning remains the same. The housing crisis is obviously far more advanced than it was. So the original approval was 14 stories and eight stories. And we have reduced that high rise component to 13. You will see the FAR, meaning the scale of the buildings, our last were still able to deliver 218 units. And I think if you look at the bottom line here, increase the open space with an appropriate reduction of onsite parking. This is also in a catchment area very close to the green line. Just in close walking distance to bring them to circle. Next slide please. So just the overview of our goals. This project through this extensive NPC and the engagement with the impact advisory group, the elected officials are important. A butters has been improved to really recognize the historical character in the past of this site, its relationship to the church. But also the context of the immediate area that you'll see here that have greater heights and really support the context of what was approved in 2005 and what is being improved. Now, 218 units, we are very proud that 33 of these are income restricted at 15% that is five more than would be ordinarily required at 28. So a massive impact on affordable housing opportunities, improvements in pedestrian infrastructure. It's very important for us to also introduce some traffic calming and vehicular safety measures, especially as it relates to our adjacency to mission main apartments as well as mission grammar school, who we worked with closely, especially over the past year since being approved at the BPDA board and before coming to you. And then obviously improving the landscaping, not just with more ground plane space, but making it more publicly accessible and the like. And I've glassed but not least, it's sustainable till it development all electric, which would not have been the case had this been built obviously in 2005. Next slide. Unique land conditions. This is obviously a unique site. It's an acre and a half. We're not subdividing. This is the existing building. Harvard School of Public Health was attended for many years that is remaining. And then you'll see on the right and the left. Obviously this is a corner lot that corners on both St. Alfonso's and Smith Street. The church, mission church is our only direct butter, not only but the mission church as well as the playground. And those are two really important constituencies. Madam Chair, you have a letter of support from the mission church that was provided. And you'll see in the BPDA process we have and continue to work with parks department to be stewards of the playground. And across the street with mission main, I want to thank Ms. Willie Pearl Clark from the task force. We work really hard with her and the IAG on some of these public safety and infrastructure measures that are part of our board. Memorandum as well as working constructively on a construction management plan well in advance. And so the site for the relief granted, obviously we're also in subject to landmarks. So we'll be continuing to work with them on this new construction. They authorize demolition. And that's why you see those two vacant wads on each side. Next slide shows you how this all comes together with zoning. You'll see in the pink. Again, it's two two new buildings on one site, which were resultant restoring it to three buildings. Obviously these two new buildings are for residential housing, which is an allowed use in the sub district. We do need relief for is the FAR, which has actually been reduced and so five and is 3.88 and it allowed 3.0 consistent with I think all the benefits that we're providing, but also the context of the area similarly height, which allows for 55 at this location. We've reduced the story since 2005, but we are still in excess of what the zoning code requires, which has not changed, but we are contextually complementary to our surrounding adjacencies. Open space has been improved to an extent that we do not need a variance for the mid rise building at 80 Smith, but we need a slight variance at 100 Smith. And a rear yard slight rear yard variance between 21, 2 and 9.9 for the mid rise building, which again directly puts the church. And so we work through those adjacencies and we're proud to have their support. Next slide, you see how this all comes together and the refusal letters, again, two sites, 80 and 100 Smith. And with that, I will hand it off to Ben to take you really quickly through the design. Thank you, Joe. We need to bend along that principle. With really architects, business address 535, all these three, number 405. So the program that Joe was describing, the way that we took that, knowing that it had to comport with the historic church campus and with a very, very existing context that we're providing. So we're taking our buildings and using their items to step down from the high sites that exist across St. Alfonso Street. You can see those in the distance in the top of it, tradition down from the 21 story that exists across the street to our 13, then down to 8, as we were by the baseball fields which are there in the foreground. We're also using material choices to thread over calling contextual recent rebases into that historic church campus and using proportions and massing and heights to be respectful of the data-mlined and courtesies that exist in the campus. And using those proportions to sort of create a composition of buildings that complete the existing church campus next slide, please. So through extensive review with the planning department of the VCDC and lead marks mission, we've simplified and constrained both of the new buildings for prints to a fairly simple rectangle at 100 Smith-Bama-Left and then 80 Smith-Bama-Left, they're on the right and that's done a lot to preserve some of the existing sightlines and visibility corridors that exist from the walkways back to the church Basilica and the existing campus. That's also allowed us to provide a approximately third-minute acre of publicly accessible landscape open space at grade. Those were just two meandering paths between the buildings and it's constrained to all of the vehicular sort of access down to St. Alfonso Street. You can see on the left side of the slide showing some of the programmatic mix, we have 218 units comprised of a mix of studios, heavily one beds and one beds, one plus beds, and two better units of those as Joe mentioned 33 are affordable. VCDC and parking will provide 40 spaces that satisfy the office use for 90 Smith. Those are the 19 spaces which you can see an accurate service lot and then an additional 21 below rate in a parking garage which is sort of a new shape that ties between 100 Smith below the open air parking and then under 80 Smith. Next slide, please. We've also made changes from the design as was approved in 2005 to create more active uses at the ground plains. So we're lining the streets of Smith Street and say of St. Alfonso's with amenity spaces and building lobbies and a couple of accurate units you can see on the playing right that are open out to terraces that front onto the baseball fields. This is also allowed us to consolidate all of the previous further cuts down to a single clear cut. You see at the bottom left hand side of the screen of St. Alfonso Street that gives vehicular and truck loading access to the service lot and to the below grade parking garage. Our complete streets sidewalk design include a number of expanded sidewalks with curb bump outs or improved sidewalks including one new mid-block connection at the bottom left side of the screen there. That's part of our conversations with the grammar school where we've been really working to make sure that our sites increase to vehicular access is mitigated in terms of the schools drop off and pick off operations. Next slide, please. So how do you take these building scale, this mass in this height and how do you start to use materiality and massing choices to thread that into the existing neighborhood. The top image is street elevation of Smith Street. So seeing the existing 75 of St. Alfonso Street to the right, we transition down and height to our unmanned Smith Street and then 80s with eight stories about into the baseball fields using material, masonry pieces at the street tape to tie and and use an enrich detailing that's contemporary masonry but drawn from some of the character of the historic buildings that are found on the site. The bottom left image is the same Alfonso Street street tape. So seeing the way that the referee to the grammar school and then to the three storing masonry bass bass of our 100 Smith Street star ties in a bit of rhythm to that street tape and the bottom right image showing East Smith Street deferring to some of the more prominent cornice lines and masses of the masonry god. Next slide, please. So the next next couple of images are just street skate views that start to show the character of our development within the existing context. So here from St. Alfonso Street looking south towards Mission Hill in the distance, the way that our building is using a red brick because it's a little bit more of an urban condition here along St. Alfonso Street and then the next image is from Tramon Street looking south along St. Alfonso and seeing how that sort of dense street tape and 100 Smith ties up into the taller volumes that exist along St. Alfonso Street. Next slide shows a view of Smith Street. So you're at the northeast corner of the site the baseball fields are in the foreground all the left and you can see that transition from the tall, mid-century buildings that exist now to 100 Smith Street 90 in the middle and then 80 Smith Street in the foreground. Switting to a more sand-tow brick as a backdrop to the more natural setting of the pocket in the baseball fields, pulling in a sleigh tile for the upper levels that ties itself into the character of the Basilica beyond their distance and then bringing some bang windows that are a bit more of a residential articulation. We worked along with the city and PCDZ to make sure that these buildings did feel institutional that they have a residential character to them. Next slide please. This steps back across the baseball fields and sees how Smith ties in to the scale of deferring to the grander of the Basilica but still keeping the language of architecture and materiality that's composed with this more institutional block where we find ourselves. Thank you that's all that I have Joe I can visit all to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All the questions from the board. Hearing no questions from the board. We'll take public testimony. Madam Chair and board members C. Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services this application underwent a Boston Planning Department-led article 80 review process that solicited public comments concerns raised by the community included the height of the proposal and the possibility that would block sightlines from the rest of the neighborhood to the Basilica at our Lady of Perpetual Health Church. Butters were also concerned about the specifics of the IDP arrangement with stakeholders seeking more affordability. Our office directly received one letter of opposition. There are many other letters that were submitted directly to the BPD as part of the article 80 packet. The community alliance of Mission Hill is opposed to this proposal for the reasons previously stated and with that background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Ivone Darosa. Hello. My name is Evne Darosa and I'm a senior project manager in the Development Review Division of the Planning Department. The project before you was approved by the BPD board on January 16th, 2025. The project underwent an appropriate article 80 review for its eyes and impact which included extensive collaboration with the Planning Department the Boston Civic Design Commission, elected officials, the impact advisory group and the Mission Hill community. Since receiving BPD board approval the proponent has continued to engage with the IAG to send regular updates and to collaborate on drafting and finalizing article 80 documents such as the Cooperation Agreement and the Construction Management Plan. I thank you for your time today and we defer on the decision. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Chair. No additional comment. Okay. For that we have a motion. Mancilla, the motion is approved. Okay. We will second. Mr. Bemberidge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Baderosa. Yes. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Baderosa. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Hope everyone has a wonderful thanksgiving. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next two cases have been come. The next two companion cases have been deferred. That takes us to another set of two companion cases. And the first is case B08 178 1936 with the address of 12 perkins and along with that is case B08 170937 with the address of 12 perkins. If the applicant and do their representative not present with their police department can see the board. Hi. I'm Iris Lina Renas. Hello. I'm Maranche and members of the board. I'm the owner of 12 perkins Avenue. What we're trying to do in our properties we have a three-card detached garage and we would like to make it a unit at ADU is basically a two-bedroom open space and bathroom for our mother. I own at two families. 12 perkins are two families. She's on the second floor now in my sister but she's old and the stairs and I'm just taking a tour of her. So by building the garage you will be on the ground and you will be more comfortable. We learned through the process that we need to get another address for the garage. That's why you see the 12-card parking avenue and because of that we also need approval to have two buildings or two houses on the same lot. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the work of my name is Jeremy Bemberi. I am the high park community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an emergency meeting facilitated on July 28 where the above is an attendance voice support for the proposal with the mention of a concerned for future parking and the event that proposed the list rented out and whether the work would begin with or without the department. Next the proposal was presented to crew parks of the association with the co-ordinates and support of the co-ordinates. Today in our office it's not received any further community feedback and the MS Office and neighborhood services were elected the first of the work of their judgment. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, there are no people. There are no comments. Okay, would that be our motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Ryan. Yes. Chair, we'll just motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving to those who I will not see next Tuesday and I will see the rest of you next Tuesday. Happy New Year. Thank you. Thank you.