 you you Good morning, the City of Boston's oning board of the Peale Hearing from November 25, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting long, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. In the next session, the new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 20, 7. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar. The platform is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page from the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. What members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition, the order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. It's like yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called upon with a meeting post. We're not known to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Berraza. Morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. Panado. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin with the extension schedule for 9.30 a.m. I'll read through all the extensions that they have been deemed appropriate. It turns to what they're asking for. After that, I want to be seen. If anyone has any questions, I'll be directing the Madam Chair and we'll go from there. We'll begin with case BOA 12479 or 8 with the address of 80 to 104 West Broadway. Next, we have case BOA 1538261 with the address of 215 to 217 Braille, Mabino. Next, we have case BOA 1411397 with the address of 610 Charlcy Street. Next, we have case BOA 1386283 with the address of 24 Geneva Street. And on the extension categories, we have case BOA 1261313 with the address of 154 Territory. Those are the extensions that we have before us as one. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Motion to grant the extensions as requested. There's a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Bergeraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Monop. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Next, we have a word final. Opportun case to give to 930 AM. This is case BOA 1617226 with the address of 53 to 55 Dustin Street. If the applicant can go to their representative, present. Will they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. We were supposed to get you for last week. And by omission, it was funded to this week. So thank you for your time. I can share my screen if it is relevant for you just to make sure we are fully aware of the proposed change that surfaced during mid construction. The slide down will be. Oh, no. I'm sharing your screen. Understood. I did two below where you were just were. One more. Right there to the rear. That is pre-existing structure. That structure only extended to surface internal living area for the first and second floor. It was Cinder block foundation with, sorry, Cinder block structure with improper footings. The plan was to take off the roof on the second floor, build a flat roof. To basically provide rear decking area to service the third floor. In the process of analyzing the structure and in demo, it was realized that the Cinder block foundation and footings or holy and sufficient, which would have meant effectively rebuilding the structure. Additionally, the third floor was expanded internal living area by having significant modification to the existing roof line for dormers. The magnitude of the change for the dormers rendered the best means of reconstruction being the removal of the roof and the rebuilding of the roof. In the process of needing to rebuild the rear structure and in rebuilding the roof anew. If you're rebuilding structure from anew for the rear addition, it makes sense to have that be in line with the lateral walls of the structure, which are then used to be tied into for the additional rear foundation. So from a structural perspective, it makes sense to have your building effectively being a large rectangle. And then also to have the roof line for weight purposes and in rebuilding the roof to have a completely, a roof line that would carry the length of the structure and then carry all the weight downward. The end result was to rebuild the rear structure in a rectangle with the lateral left and right portions following the length of the existing building envelope and to have the roof line go from front of structure to all the way of rear structure, which effectively meant the creation of additional livable area on the third floor of the structure. So in realizing that the need to rebuild the rear structure and the proper way to rebuild it made the building effectively stronger by making it a large rectangle of a footprint and then having the roof line go from front of structure to a rear of structure as indicated. So the net change was a slight expansion of the footprint of that rear structure and the additional livable internal square footage on the third floor above the existing prior just first and second floor addition. So I have the GC on the line to comment on construction and purposes, but that's when necessitated to this change and the resulting rebuild. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can you just clarify what's the net gain of square footage? Our calculation is 180 square feet. Okay. That sounds good. I see it's the mission. I see this is a very reasonable request. No further questions. Any other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to look for a motion at approval. There's second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Bernardo. Yes. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you kindly. Next we have the hearing scheduled for 9.30 a.m. We'll ask at this time that there are any request for the draws or the first from the 9.30 a.m. here. Hearing none will move on. We'll begin with case BOA 178 4510 with the address of 21 to 23. If the applicant and the representative president will take please explain to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins. The business address of 245. Summarshreet. We spot on behalf of the applicant. Madam Ambassador, we can jump down to slide to just to give a little bit of context here. We have the members of the board. This is a proposal that involves an existing structure that will be demolished. We are proposing to replace that with two three bedroom townhouse buildings. We require a number of items or require relief from a number of items as cited in the public notice as well as the reviews a lot of issued by a special service and can jump down perhaps maybe to the slide 5 or 6. Just give a street view of the existing building. That's a good place to stop here. So on the left hand side of the screen we see the existing structure at the intersection of Fairview and Conway streets as I indicated that would be demolished with the new structure in its place. We could go to maybe slide 8 with the renderings to show a little bit of what the proposed condition would be. So here's one view looking at the two townhouses that would be attached. Obviously at the center with the garage is located beneath the building because we do fun on two streets and through the community process we did hear some requests to create almost a second front of the building facing Conway. You can see him on the left hand side of the screen. We did the architect did a great job of incorporating that next slide please. Just a different view on the show as you're coming up Fairview as you get to the intersection how that would be oriented. If we can go to the site plan to slide 11 talk a little bit about how the site is set up for this proposed structure. Slide 11. Perfect. So we can see here that we do set the building back from our VR screen left but the right hand side is about almost 26 feet. We do set it back almost 20 feet on the Conway start up to 20 feet on the Conway street side about 14 feet the front. I set back an over years 18 feet. One of the things that will point out is that during the community process we did show on the right hand side of the building screen left two additional parking spaces. We did hear from neighbors that there was a preference to ensure as much open space on site as possible. Doing so we eliminated the parking that was in the exterior and include only parking at the garage level below the building which requires relief as to parking spaces bringing it out required. So we respect the items that were cited. I'm sure it was the board the additional lot area was cited as insufficient. There's a minimum of 5,000 square feet which is required although we do have 68 hundred square feet. 3,000 square feet is required for any additional dwelling units. So 8,000 would be total. We're just under 69 hundred square feet. In addition the front yard being in sufficient 20 feet is required step back here in this section of last one now. We do show it at 14 feet. We believe that we are meeting the mobile setback requirements. So while we do get cited for them setback not being that we do believe through a design review this could be adjusted to ensure a moral alignment. We show a rare setback of 18 feet. As you can see here, however, we do require 22 feet with the shallow exception being applied. So we are slightly below the 22 feet minimum at 18 feet. We also are cited for as I mentioned the option parking requirement. There are four spaces that are required. We do include two one, create in the garage. And the last is the four area ratio. A 50% maximum is permitted. We are at about eight almost 89%. So because we are in excess of the FAR maps, we do require a link that as well. We go to the next slide please. So we just include the elevations here. This is consistent with the high work arts and two and a half stories or the sub district. We also illustrate the additional doorways and features that we can include on the sides of the building. So again, this was through the community process that they wanted to be sure of the building didn't have a start wall that was facing a street. So we did incorporate that entrance way. I actually have both sides of the building as well. Next slide please. I'm just looking at the opposite side of the building and the rear. Next slide. I can jump down probably right to the ground level. I have slide 16. That's probably the most relevant one to discuss. So yes, incorporate some amenities for the building as well. We have a live room laundry, etc as well as the garage as they see here. So we have the mechanical areas towards the front. Next slide please. May level includes just living area kitchen, etc. And it's basically a mirror of each going both left to right. Next slide please. Three bedrooms on the upper level bathrooms. Next slide. And I have story just has some finished face and includes a playroom. I do believe that the board has reviewed the recommendation of the pilot department who recommends. I will pause here and answer any questions before. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam chairing members of the book for the record. My name is Jeremy Fembery. I'm the Rosland Dale Community to take a drink specialist for the Office of Liquid Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of what is meeting facilitated on the very team. Where many of what is waste concerns for water runoff and the need for open space. The concern for water runoff was a reference to the proposed grading as the proposal sits lower in elevation than its neighbor and property. So with slopes on both sides, we create a water runoff issue. And a butter voice support for the number of units and their proposals, depending on how they like the changes that were made from a previous meeting. Next, the proponent presented to log for a little area neighborhood association which completed the community process and took a stance on non-opposition. Today, now all the staffs are receiving their new further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time in the midst of the liquid services. We would like to defer to the court with your chair. Thank you. Okay, it makes you have the Barbara Kibalit. You can unmute yourself. Name on in the address please. We can now hear you. You're mute. Barbara, you're mute. Barbara, you're mute. Barbara, you're mute. mute button should be in the lower left hand corner of your screen. Well, are there any other raised hands while she's while Barbara's figuring out how to mute? In the meantime, I have a question from Mr. Lin's man, she had one of the leaders from a bother has mentioned that there is a problem with rodents at the property at this moment. And they asked can you do have a plan to do best control before just telling you the innovations? Yes. So in connection with the demolition, Mr. Lin's, we would be required to have a bathing and trapping and connection with any building current that issues for the property. The city of Boston requires that we demonstrate that we have a licensed exterminator in connection with the project and they will certainly inspect if there's some issues with the property during construction or during demolition to ensure that we're addressing any road concerns outside. Thank you. You just want to make sure that the affluence on migrate to the property and exhaust. Thank you. Okay. I see Barbara looks like you muted yourself. Yes. Thank you. My name is Barbara Kibler and this is my husband, David Sterns. We are adjacent to the proposed construction at 26 Conway Street. And we are very concerned about the setbacks, particularly back yard because our house is directly next to it doesn't seem possible for any space for them. And it's also going to block all the sun that comes in that side of our house, which may not be possible, but the setback is a real problem. And we would like it to be the actual proposed setback for Ross and Dale. Thank you. Thank you. And we did not receive any information about the community meeting or any of this. So we're very concerned about that. Okay. Thank you, Mal. May I respond now, chair? No, no other raise. No, no. Okay. Oh, I'm sorry. That is one more person that just raised a hand. A Greg from the Greg, you're allowed to meet yourself now. Hi there. Can you hear me? Yes. This is Greg Buckland. I met 14 Sim Street. I'm about, I'm just around the corner about about four or five houses away. And in general, I'm supportive of in fill housing and multiple units. The thing that I'm concerned about is that the parking garages. Also, I'll note a second that I did. This is the first opportunity I was aware of to learn about this project or comment on it. I think there's plenty of street parking. And I don't like the curb cut that's going to make it much harder for people specifically children to walk along that sidewalk. The deep curb cut and the steep driveway. So I would be in favor of just eliminating the parking requirements. There's plenty of street parking on Fairview and on Conway. Thank you. Thank you. And I think there is one another person. I mean, I don't know if you were speaking for this project. No, I'm sorry. I'm not, but I'm okay now. Thank you so much. I'm sorry for the interruption. Okay. Okay. Yes. Thank you. I'm not sure. So just with respect to the council member from neighbors. So I'll address the concern of the setback. So we did show an 18 foot setback to the rear, which I believe is the setback. That was concerned to the neighbor left on Conway. Who would rely on the board that this is a quarrelock condition. We did have the option of facing the building on Conway. If we did so, our setback on the side with only 10 feet, we're actually eight feet more than that at 18 feet. And we would likely comply with the setback for the rear. If again, we face this onto Conway Street. The fact that we're oriented the building towards Fairview has triggered those violations. But again, as this board is well aware, we have a quarrelock condition. Sometimes looking at the side yard is very telling when we look at where the appropriate setback is for the rear. So in this case, I believe that the setback meets the spirit and 10 of the code at 18 feet, which is more than what a side yard setback would be if this were facing on Conway. With respect to the garage, I certainly heard that during the community process that eliminating the garage would be preferable to some in the neighborhood. But we also did hear that there was concern about lack of Austrian parking for this particular site. So the compromise that we've come up with was to incorporate the garage with two spaces and eliminate the parking on the surface, which will allow for additional open space. Thank you. Are there the questions from the board? The only concern I have in relation to the width of the curb cut. Can you just clarify what's the width of the curb cut? Yeah, I believe it's at 16 feet as far as I'm sure we will have to address that with public works. Because a limit is 12, but that would require two paragraphs review that will public works. Right. We need typically, we need typically recommends a 12 foot curb cut in residential areas. So that that would be my only concern, but it seems like BPD picked up on that concern as well. I don't have further questions. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes BPD design review specifically for site planning as it relates to the width of the curb cut. What is there a second? Big Placid. Mr. Stembridge, where? Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes, and I would like to ask Mr. Linz and the proponent to follow up with a name board because it seems that they don't have the interest of the project. So I would like to invite you to organize a follow-up meeting with them. I'm on board. There is an internal amount. Everything that is going to happen there. Yeah, Army. Mr. Turner, thank you. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 175-5449 with the addresses B2 Sycamore Street. If they have applicant here in Northern Representative President, will they please explain the case to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. And all the members of the board. My name is Meredith O'Brien. I work with great day improvements. I represent your neighbor on 82 Sycamore. I'm not sure if I can share my screen at all. They show a picture or anything. So I kind of. We don't share screens, but you should have submitted what you want to be on. All I did is the community hearing. I was able to share. So I'm sorry. This is the first time for me. I'm sorry. I don't know if you have any questions, but I'll just explain the situation. You know, she already has an existing deck. Also, a shed passed that deck. We're going to be removing the shed that is past the deck and just building right on top of the existing porch that she already has. So there are pictures that I had sent before I'm not sure if they're here. But there is a shed that comes past what you're seeing here already existing. If you want to stop right there, it would come out probably another eight feet. We're going to be removing that. So I believe there was an issue with it being too close. We're actually going to give more space. There were not expanding any footprint that she already has. In fact, the city of Boston built her deck. So, you know, she was a little confused why she was not approved for this. But it's going to add value to the home out at add value to, you know, the street. And we hope that you guys will approve this. It's been going on for quite a while for her. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Here in Dunham, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record by name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Roslanddale Community Engagement Specialist who the Office of Neighborhood Services. They have the can ask completed the community process. Businesses and so on. But is reading held on October 7th. The two of us are attending Supervoid Force Support for the proposal. Next, we're going to present it to West Village of Neighborhood Association. And with no opposition, completed the community process. To date our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and the most office of neighborhood service. So, we took a project to work with that gentleman. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, but that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Berberazzo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Chair, well, it's yes. The motion carries to let me. Thank you. On behalf of Mrs. T. Moshe, greatly thanks you all. Bye. Next, we have case theory. 1-75-47-1. With the address of 198 Metropolitan Avenue. It's the act 10th in the order of the representative of President. Would they please put in case? Hello. I am Dr. Smiller. Thank you for showing the slides. Again, my apologies for not changing the title to today's meeting. So if you can go to the next slide. And then the next slide. That was just us. We are the deposit sale now for going on five years. So we're educators in Boston and been in Boston both of us for the last 30 years. Can you go to the next slide, please? And the slides are the title that was used to similar to last person. We're going to be presenting. We got this. We needed to get a variance for the side jar and for the two and a half. High limitation, but I was going to show you that we were going to show you that in the slides. Why we do need that. So if you look at the first slide, no matter what we do, our house is only five feet on the. From the fence line right there. Even though it says don't they accessify if you look at we're we're planning to add an addition. It is actually on top of the first floor. So it's technically a second floor, but I think because of the elevation pitch, it goes down that. I'm not sure that makes it or requires the variance there. Can you go to the next slide, please? So again, just explaining side jar in the fish. This is just highlighting the picture here shows that we have ACs on that side that. Definitely. Nothing we could change unless we move the house at that point. If you go to the next slide, please. I get this highlighting with a second floor with the it's not a third floor is actually a second floor at the bottom part is the basement. That's the walk out from the basement. Can you go to and also we're not expanding the footprint of the building we just adding on to the first one. And these are just some site plans here showing what the architect had done. The basically shows everything you're at there just in drops if you go to the next slide. Again, showing where everything is right now is going to be on top of the blank space. So the one on the left is the basement. One next to it moving from the right is the first floor and you have the second and the attic space. So we're only going to be in the third one from the left is adding the second floor addition for faster bedroom, which there is not one right now. So one and a half baths currently can you go to the next slide please. Yep, and this is just highlighting where it would be with more schematics being shown here. So just showing where it would be from going from the first floor. And then where nothing is like to what it would be on the right. And if you can go to the next slide. These are just the elevation drawings here. They actually sort of fit. They actually fit into with the building to add a second floor above the current first floor right now. Okay, can you go to the next slide please. And well enough you have any questions. Yes, next up is this this meeting here. We did the meet with the civic association did our voters meeting already and we did our notifications. Thank you. Are there questions from the board hearing none and I take public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Ross and the community engagement specialist for the office of the neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abode is meeting facilitated on August 18th. But two of our voters on attendance no concerns were raised and following their voters meeting no further community process was required to date our office has not received any further community feedback to my knowledge. Thank you for your time and in my office of neighborhood services would like to be brought to the work with their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair. There are no additional comments at the moment. With that we have a motion. Madam Chair make a motion of approval. If there are second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Barbaraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Trilots. Yes. The motion carries good luck. Thank you. Next we have case viewing. 174. 72. 36. With the address of five prosperous prospect. Sure. If the applicant and no representative of the present will they put one case in board. Thank you sir. Thank you everyone for joining here today. My name is Jose Gonzalez and I wanted to walk you guys through the project here. So the two variances were asking request to relief from. Would be the off-street parking and loading requirement. And it would be the front yard and sufficient. And you can see right here the great out portion on the right. Is the existing home. And what we're proposing is to finish the garage that you see there in the left. Darker on the first floor and then extend the second floor. We won't be raising the ridge so we're going to keep the ridge at the same height. And we're going to meet the front facades. If you can scroll down a little bit please just one slide. Yep. And so you can see here for the parking right now currently the owner doesn't use the garage for any type of parking. He uses it for storage. So our thought is that the condition outside is not going to change. And you can see here on the right image currently most of the neighbors actually use the prospect circle as parking. And so you can see how the vehicles are of the neighbors often the neighbors actually put it on the street. You can see our site there the the owner actually sparked right there in this image. And so our thought is that the conditions on the street won't really change in the neighborhood. And besides prospect circle prospect street also has a lot of parking. So that's sort of our thought process for the parking issue. If you can scroll down a little bit more. Right here is mine. So we can see we're lying up the faces of the building from the existing for the new proposed section. That's the bottom half. What we're asking for relief here is it is on the magnitude of inches. We're really close to the existing front setback. But you know plus or minus a couple inches is what we're asking really for. Our thought process on this is we could meet the zoning requirements by pushing back the front facade and the new proposed. But I think architecturally speaking is just going to look very terrible if you see a tiny little setback for a couple inches on the front facade. If you scroll down a little bit more you can kind of see what this is going to look like in sections. So that's the front of the garage that we're demolishing right there that we're going to bring forward and lying with the existing foundation in the front. Can you scroll down a little more? Yeah, keep on going so you can see that's the garage that they're going to start occupying. We're going to get rid of that roof. Keep on going please. Yeah, keep on going. Yeah, right here so you can see the new wall right here that's where it says office that's the garage we're bringing that wall in front to be flush. Just you know to maximize the space for sure but also architecturally speaking. And I think it's what works best. Can you scroll down a little more? Yeah, keep on going right here again. We're going to line up the front facade with the existing you can see there on the right the right side is the streets. And you can scroll down a little bit more. Yeah, keep on going. Okay, you can stop right there. So you're just going to see the overall. So you can see here the overall. Can you scroll up just a little bit when she before? So you can see right here. This is the existing if you see the elevation on the top left that's the existing garage. We're basically going to just extrude that over. And if you can go scroll down you can see what the proposed is. Yeah, right here you can see we were proposing right then the top left of the same same elevation. We're extruding that over. And I think that concludes more or less the work. It's the two violations that we're asking for relief. We've done the neighborhood associations. We've met in person. We presented in front of the neighborhood at the police department as well. The meetings took back in July 30th and the other one was August. I know sorry September 24th. So it's been a long process. We've set up the flyers and everything as you know, make sure everyone's aware. There was a couple of neighbors that were asking a bunch of questions and we did have a lot of communication with I believe the neighbor in the front that was concerned about parking. And we exchanged quite a few emails regarding the process, you know, the hours of working during construction. And making sure that there is parking. The only, you know, we are going to have deliveries of equipment in our material. Nothing that's going to be over the top will have a lumber delivery, but you know, that will be in our most and it will happen likely just once. And we also submitted to the board two letters of support. It's the neighbor on either side, both of the upbudders. One, this is the neighbor to the left and the one is the neighbor to the right. And open up to any questions. If you guys have any questions or want to discuss anything in more detail. Any questions from the board hearing none. Let's speak public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bimbery. I'm the high park community engaged and specialist at the office of the neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of when the board is making facilitated on July 30th. The two board is an attendance, one of the gender voice that are opposition to the proposal. Our office has also received one email voice and concerns. We've got a construction center around the vehicles, the number and type of vehicles in location during construction. And how will affect park next? The proposal was presented in Fairmont, it was the Civil Association, that's at Chapter 24. We voted to support also, to date our office has received two letters of support, supporting the proposal. Currently, it states. Thank you for your time at the press office. They put services, but I'd like to refer to the board with their name. Thanks. Madam Chair, next we have a Brian Price. You can unmute yourself. Hi, good morning, board. Madam Chair, first. I am directly across the street from the proposed construction site. And while I do not oppose the final result, I do want there to be some concern expressed concerning the process itself and the vehicles on the street. My driveways directly across from the site and backing out of my driveway is difficult now as it is. And if there are vehicles to the right of my driveway, it will be virtually impossible to get out of my driveway. Right now, the owner of the property does have a big pickup truck that's immediately in front of my driveway. So getting out of the driveway is concerned. Another concern that I have is because there's a narrow passageway on cross-spec circle before you get to the circle part of the cul-de-sac. My concern is that that in-gress and egress area would not be repeated in any way for package deliveries, for emergency vehicles, for just residents or visitors passing through that area. So those are my primary concerns to process itself. And one other concern that we have is the proposed time for construction would be between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. 6 days of the week. So if there can be some sort of a plan made in place so that that is not as large as a time frame is that. Again, this is a small area. And so it's really just my process in that there be some conditions that the board puts in place for this process to take place. And those are my primary concerns. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No. The Tim and I'm sure. Could the applicant address those concerns? Yes, for sure. So as I said earlier, there's plenty of parking also on cross-spec street. I think in terms of parking, I just called the project manager earlier this morning, kind of review everything of what the construction process was going to be like. And the project manager assured me that what we can do if it's a large issue, we can park or we can drop off materials and we can just have, you know, whoever is doing the work that particular day, we can actually park on cross-spec street versus right on the circle that will keep the street fairly open. It's a small project. There is not going to be a ton of vehicles coming in and out. It's not a major project. So I don't think there's, I know there's not going to be that much traffic. It's not going to be any congestion in the area just because of the small project. But, you know, to assure everyone we can, you know, be proactive and make sure any contractors that come on site actually park on the adjacent street versus right in front of the property, you know. Thank you. And what about the concerns about construction schedule? The time. So the timing, you know, they won't be going there six times a week. It'll be Monday through Friday. Sometimes Saturday, it, it, it, it, it, it, it will be Monday through Friday. Some of the, the crews do like to work at seven, but if it's an issue with the neighborhood, we can adjust that timeframe and just move it later in the day so we can do, you know, from eight to five versus seven to four. When we were originally speaking, it was a larger time frame because we wanted to cover all the aspects, but, you know, we can error that and define that, you know, more so to, you know, what's appropriate for the neighborhood. But it's just, you know, as need be, we have a construction manager that's going to be their full time on site. So any concerns, they'll be able to handle them, you know, immediately. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Mr. Stunbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have two companion cases. These are case B, the OA, 174, 7995 with the address of 128 to 128 B, Kitchwich Street. Along with that, we have case B, 174, 7994 with the address of 130 to 130 B, Kitchwich Street. It's the applicant and the other representatives present that please provide a case for the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary and good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board for the record attorney, Matt Decker, with Fletcher Totten on behalf of the applicants Steve Dario and Sarah Valardi, who are also with us today. I also have our exact same project architect from context on the call. We're proposing to raise the existing structure and erect two townhouse buildings for a total of four residential home ownership units. Each unit is proposed to contain two interior parking spaces. I would note this does look to be the bold renderings. We have redesigned the buildings to have a pitch-droof with dormers rather than the members. I'm not sure if we have the more recently submitted plans that were reviewed by ISD and actually issued a new refusal letter to be shared. That'd be great. Thank you. Just to give a little background, essentially a double lot. It contains over 13,000 square feet. So it's between two and three times the size of most of the surrounding lots. We are proposing a single curb cut. As you can see there on the site plan, kind of right there in the middle of the property with the 12 foot wide driveway. That's going to provide access for all the units for their vehicles. We're proposing to have that traditional driveway, which is going to provide access, as I mentioned, to the parking, which is now all located within the buildings. We previously did have some overflow parking in the rear of the site for visitors or just extra parking, but working with the community, we did eliminate that to create some more open space. So we still meet code at two parking spaces per unit, and they're all located within the building, and we've maximized green space towards the rear. Going through the floor plans, we're proposing main entries for both units at the ground level, one door facing the street and one interior. So you'll have your own private entryway. As mentioned, we have a two-car garage for each unit, which is accessed through that 12 foot common driveway. The lower level will also have an office and storage mechanical room moving up to the second floor. If we can scroll through the plans a little bit, we are proposing a open concept living room, dining room kitchen with a half bath. And then the front unit will have a front deck facing the street, and the rear unit will have a rear deck. So each unit will have some private dedicated open space in the form of the deck on the second level. Then moving up to the third floor, we are proposing three better units, so each unit will have three bedrooms and two bathrooms. In terms of zone relief, we do need relief for the townhouse use. We're also proposing an FAR of approximately 0.83, where 0.5 is allowed. We're proposing a three-story building, where two and a half is allowed, but I would point out we are within the 35 foot height requirement. We also are secretly for front yard, we have a 15 foot setback, where 25 is required, but we are in line with the budding properties on both sides. And as you go down the Kitchwich Street, you'll see a dichotomy of front yard setbacks with some being even smaller. So we feel 15 is in line with both our direct butters on either side. And finally, multiple dwellings on one lot was cited because these are two separate buildings. The applicant did go through an extensive community process. We attended multiple of butter meetings, and we also met with the West Village Neighborhood Association. We've had several conversations with members of the Rosendale Coalition and direct butters based on all these changes, based on all these conversations. As mentioned, we have made several changes to the project. Some of that included redesigning the building, as I noted already, to better fit within the street scape. We removed previously proposed roof decks. We did reduce two units. This originally started out as a 16-year project. We're now at four total. As mentioned, we eliminated the previously proposed exterior parking, and that allowed us to increase the open space. And we've also worked with neighbors, and at our worst, on tree preservation. And we'll be maintaining the majority of the trees around the side yard and every yard, wherever possible, wherever the trees are healthy. Just to conclude, we did submit a few letters of support through the board. And with that, I'll pause and take any questions the board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Thank you. I always was going to ask, is there a landscaping plan on this set? I believe we scroll up. There is on the architectural site plan. We do have some landscaping called out. I believe, which also highlights many of the trees, which are being maintained. Thank you. Is better browser? Yes. I wanted to get an assessment from the arborist on the front tree. In the plan, it's noted that it's poor condition, but the arborist actually say it was poor condition that it should be removed or poor condition that it should be maintained and trimmed. So the arborist, as mentioned, did look at all the significant trees and noted that front tree as in poor condition, it noted significant decay, insects burrowing into it and structural deficiencies. So it was actually one of the worst trees on the site plan, the arborist report. They didn't specifically recommend immediate removal, but certainly recommended that there's structural issues and it's probably should be removed in the near future. Any other questions from the board? Let's open it up to public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Vemperry. I am the browser and they will remit it to engage with the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has concluded the committee process was consistent of two of others meetings. We still updated on August 5th of 2024, except on June 4th, 2025. The most recent of which was well attended and very well received by others. Our bonus voice, their appreciation to the proponent for implementing changes to the proposal according to the feedback from the first of our meeting. A further discussion regarding the trees on the property was also agreed upon for a later date as a concern for trees was raised during the meeting. Next, the proposal was presented to West Village Neighborhood Association and with no opposition can budget the committee process. To date, our office has received eight letters of support from the proposals with its changes. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Next week up, Lori. Good morning. Thank you for taking my testimony. I'm Lori Ravlin. I live in 49 August. I'm in Rosendale. I am a director of butter. I share a lot of line. Although I am the coalition coordinator in Rosendale, I am here as an individual. I want to voice my full burden support. The development team and the avutors are to be commended in my opinion. This has been a nearly perfect community process. Thanks to Jeremy, by the way, on this. No person got everything they wanted. But everybody got something. And the project will add housing to our neighborhood without tearing down trees. I'm maintaining the quality of life that the avutors expressed their preferences for. The developers redo and redracered their plan based on the community process, incurring this expense without complaint. And I urge the board to support the proposal as written. Thank you. Thank you. Next week up, Erin Muck. Hi. Yes. Can you guys hear me? Yes, ma'am. My name is Erin McDonald. I live across the street. As a long time resident in a butter who was, you know, bored on the street. And I've lived here the past decade. I believe that the new rib rebuild is, you know, a good fit for the neighborhood. During the whole process, I mean, the owner and the designers have been, you know, really wonderful and receptive to our feedback. I think they took the time to really hear us out and, you know, make those changes. And yeah, I just support this development. And I think it's going to, you know, positively impact our area and, you know, give us much needed housing. So I am in support as well. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. All right. With that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'm late to also just commend the architects effort and the way that they propose increased density in the way in which they designed a massing and just not allowing for a curb cut to be right in front, which we have seen already in kind of past submissions. So I just want to commend the architect for their planning of the project. That being said, I did notice that the front yard setback of requirement is 25 feet. I think BPD can work with the architect to relocate the building in such a way that we preserve the mature tree that is in front. So with that's basically just my recommendation comment. I would like to put for a motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes BPD design review to specifically look at the location of the building in its site plan. There's second to preserve the to preserve the mature tree. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Ranzia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bettoral, the Razzle. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Otto. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B081771652 with the address of 128 milliliters. The applicants in the order of representant of the present with the police and the bank case report. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is James Christopher of 686 architects with the business address of 10 floors road and brain tree. Excuse me. I'm here today on behalf of the public. Sorry. I need to recuse. So we are now in six member board. Thank you. Here today on behalf of Bonnie Alves and the she's the order of 148 milliliters street, which is currently a paved vacant lot. We have a total of 278 square feet. We are proposing to construct a three story three unit residential building. Next slide, please. As a part of this project, we are seeking similarly from the zoning code, which includes off-string parking, screening and buffering. A lot area that you require a lot area is 6,000 square feet. Again, we are 2780 lot within frontage, which is required to be actually I think we beat that 48. I think that violation is narrow, but we were cited for 40 feet. We have 48 feet of proposed frontage. FAR, which is allowed to be. We are at 1.29 with 3,492 square feet. Building height is excessive in stories, which is this is allowed to be 2 and a half stories. We are proposing three. And then the front and side yard setbacks, the front yard setback is 15 feet. We are at 6.5 to the bows and 9 feet to the main building, which is consistent with the model and our butters. And then the side yard is insufficient at 10 feet and we are at 3.7 on the right at the smallest point at the narrowest and 12.8 to 6.3 on the left. Next slide, please. This is our site use plan. We have 1,400 square feet of open space. We have a violation for screening and fostering. We can certainly include robust planting and fences along the property line, which we can work with the BPDA and design view on that. Should the project be approved. Next slide, please. As we get into the floor plan, we are only proposing a partial basement, which will house the mechanical electric room and sprinkle room at the front of the building, which will be accessed by a common stair. And then on the first level, each unit is typical. It is a 959 square foot unit, three bedrooms, two baths with the living on the right side and the bedrooms wrapped around toward the rear. Next slide, please. This is the second and third floor. Next slide. Roof plan, no roof deck on this building. And this is the building and elevation. We have a couple of three decked. There are a lot of examples in the area for the building next door. It is very comparable to this. We met with the butter and the civic association. The project is fairly well received. But without, I will turn it over to any questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the recommended is Jeremy Embry. I have the docestor community chain agent, the office of the neighborhood services. The applicant asks for you to the committee to process this consistent of an opponent's meeting out on basics with no guests at attendance. There were no concerns raised. Next, the proponent presented to the town with no foot triangle, where the vote will remain neutral, and the proposal is allowed to be forwarded. Thank you for your time and the members of the neighborhood services would like to confer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Timothee. You are on mute, Timothy. Sorry, good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Timothy Geeman from Councillor Warles office. We would like to go on record in support of this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Would that have a motion? A motion for approval? There are second votes. Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Mr. Van Stieff. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair, it's just the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case viewing. One, seven, five, nine, six, four, six. With the address of 49 out of the world. If the applicant and the way they represent the present, will they put the location of the board? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Gary Webster. I am the president of Taj Development Company at LBC, with an address of 49 Mather Street and Dorchester, just a short walk from the project site. I'm also joined by Daniel Fuguerre, Senior Associate at Stack Architecture. Before you today, we'll be presenting a classic Dorchester Triple Decker ADA compliant with a fourth dwelling unit proposed in the finished basement. The newly constructed building would replace a long standing vacant lot at the top of Alpha Road. Completing a role of existing triple deckeres and serving as the type of infill development, we believe the Dorchester's owning code, and Dorchester's section of the Boston's only code, ceased to promote. Alpha Road begins along Waubeck Street as single family Victorian homes built in the 1890s. According to city records, around 1910, the street began to transition to the triple decker, three family homes where more accustomed to seeing in Dorchester today. This was presumably to offer housing for working class families. The Lucy Stone School right nearby was built in the 1899 and the three families that were built after that tract, which are a lot different than the Victorian homes that were built previously to that in the Melville Park neighborhood. The proposed project aims to fill in this remaining vacant lot where a structure once that, according to public records and available maps, there was a structure here that was demolished sometime around 1968 or 1969. But we're seeking to replace that demolished building with a new building consistent and scaling form the existing neighborhood. With an understanding that, safer building codes and modern utility systems allow for greater use of below-grade spaces, below-grade areas for living space. But I'm now trying to know what to Dan Figiri, who will go through the design presentation. Yeah, we can go to the next slide. This is just showing the kind of access to public transit, which is also the four corners and Charlotte Redline stops within a 10 to 15-minute walk. As well as the made bus 23. As you can see, we're kind of trying to fill in the missing tooth of the street with a triple-decker kind of matching consistency of height and front yard setback to its neighbors on the left and right. As Kerry had mentioned, we're proposing a four-unit structure. Units one through three are similar in size. Similar in kind in layout and the basement unit has access via the central stair. Yeah, so level one, we have the main living room off the front porch that's round four unit has access from that common porch, and there's a dedicated stairs and the central stair that's round four. So we're going to go down to the basement or to the inside of the basement. These are similar floor plans, all two bedroom units, two bathroom. These are the elevations. We're proposing 35 sheets. The building is raised 38 inches above the grade. This is kind of in kind to the other projects on the street with the sideways entry off the porch. So the stairs have a greater landing space for pedestrian access to the cover porch. Next slide. These are the side elevations. This east elevation was showing the size of windows and that basement unit is still allowing for a decent amount of natural light to that basement unit. So it won't feel like a basement lot of your within that space. And then we'd search the typical sections cutting through that space, giving a generous eight foot five interior height for each unit. And that concludes the project. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Embry. I'm the George Hussler Community Engageant Specialist at the Office of Papered Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an approach meeting held on September 11th with one guest present no concerns were raised. Next the proposal was presented to Melville Park Service Association, which completed the community process. To date, our office has not received any further community feedback at that time at this time to my knowledge. I may forget John and Ms. Officer of the Service that's related to birds of the work with their judge. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a team of tea. Thank you again, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Timothy Gimond from Councillor Brimwell's Office. We would like to defer to the Board's judgment on this matter. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have Aileen. Hi, good morning Board Members and Madam Chair. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. My name is Aileen Simon. I live at 25 Alpharode. I've been living on this street for 39 years. The law has been vacant for 60 or 70 or 80 years because it's actually too narrow to build on. We sent, we and I mean my neighbors, 25 of my neighbors and I, we sent a letter of opposition to the Board. Last week, we're opposed to this project for a variety of reasons. Number one, it violates every single code available. And the Board itself has denied this through a rejection letter back in August. As it's designed, there's going to be a minimum five foot setback all around, including the front and back, which greatly imposes on the neighboring residents' privacy. The location itself is in a very dangerous location. Alpharode has a dog late turn to the left. And this lot is on the left right at that dog late turn. And so when you turn on the street, you have no idea what you're coming up to. And there's no way there can be any construction vehicles on the street because it's too narrow with parking on both sides. Thank you. Can you please just? Yeah, sorry, wait. It's just, it's just a dangerous location. The lot is too narrow. It imposes on everybody's privacy. And parking on the street as it stands is impossible. We have cars parked in front of the fire hydrants all the time because there's no parking on this street. There's no place for construction vehicles or any vehicles. And there's no storage for, call, pull up. Thank you. Future tenants. Okay, next. Can we have no other person from the service section? Yes. With the iPhone, a 22? Yes. My name is Mercedes Tomkins. I am in a butter down at the bottom of the hill. I would like to reinforce what Arlead has said that it's. I don't know what this development on Park Street. We go around the street on from Park Street and it's the parking has been. It's grown and it's really bad. We also want to add we had another community meeting that of the butters on the street and actually Arlead. Posted that meeting and there were about 10. 10 butters that were at that meeting. Some who live directly across the street that didn't get the notice to the original meeting. So the process for us was, you know, I understand it can be sticky but not everybody got notified. The people next door, the people behind did not get notified. I am opposed to this because quality of life issues. I have a number of our butters. I can't really have kids on the street. Traffic parking. People speed down the hill. Especially now because we don't have bumps on our hill. We won't have another two years. That is the extent of what I want to go into. Thank you. Thank you. And the applicant. Address these concerns. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I believe we did flyer the entire neighborhood within the radius for the butters meeting and we took photographs and submit them to the mayor's office which allowed us to move forward with this process. And then out for road on that stretch of out for road the majority of the lots are about 37 to 38 feet wide. And so within I believe so 300 foot radius you need to be flyer. That leaves about eight or nine houses in either direction. And so there were a butters at the bottom of out for road who were not within 300 foot radius that expressed concerns that they were not notified. And we then held a follow-up meeting with those butters at miss assignments house where we proposed a project. And a lot of the concerns that were raised were could not be. Could not be addressed by the project they were making an equality of life or parking or traffic things that you know we're experiencing in the Rochester in general could not be. You know directly addressed by the project itself. The lot size is the same as all of the three family lots on that end of out for road. We did receive support letters from our direct butters to our left hand are right at 47 of the road and 51 of the road which were submitted. For the record prior to the hearing. And the volume of the violations in my opinion is more just an example. The zoning code is is restrictive as opposed to this building being out of context with the surrounding neighborhood. Logistically you know logistically you know scheduling is the will be a major part of this project to limit the impacts. And limit truck deliveries and parking you know potentially going with modular to to to to to lessen the framing and construction process. But the gist of the project we do believe is entirely consistent with the three families in that end of out for road. But due to the topography of the site is somewhat slopes down we were able to capture some height you know you know building code height for finished baseman so we proposed the fourth unit. Also the site is within walking distance of Melville Park four corners fields corner and in car misgrid neighborhoods and we believe that you know those who may not rely on a car for the primary or the transportation would find this location desirable and we're very happy with the scale in front of the project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none is their motion. Motion of the law. There's second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case. The away. 171.10. Two four. With the address of nine long fell street. It's the applicant and was a representative of the president. The president. Is there any one president for nine long fell street. I think that it. Steve one second. Mr. Mr. Good morning. Madam chair in the board. Can you hear me now? Yes. Good morning. Madam chair in the board. This is Stephen DuBois. I'm a contractor speaking on behalf of the family. Newying family at nine long fell street. If you could scroll to the second slide. We're just proposing a dormer for their existing storage room. Because the roof was leaking and it's a confined space. We're just going to add more adequate heads height in this space. If you scroll to the next slide. This is the proposal on the next slide of what it would actually look like from the street view. A slight rendering of the addition. Just to give adequate head height in the. In the store. We scroll to the next slide. That is currently the exist. Go back one slide please. That is currently the existing storage room and there's not enough adequate head height for. To walk through it and store anything properly or efficiently and the corners were like to. Add a dormer so that it can be a more usable space. If you scroll to the next slide. This is currently the existing condition and the reason for our refusal letter. The side yard is insufficient and we're asking for some relief so that this dormer can be raised and that the livable space would actually be more usable. And for the family. Just to be clear that side yard institution is pre existing. We're not exacerbating that with this project. We're just going straight up. It's so existing there. We're not. There's no overhang. There's no. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing that may I put the testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the recommended. My name is Jerry. I'm the dochester community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an about its meaning facilitated on October 1st with no August present. No concerns were raised. The following of our is meaning following the above is meaning no further community process was acquired. And our office is confident that the proposal is not controversial. It's approved to go for this report. To date our office has not received any brevity to repeat that. Thank you for your time in the midst of it. Which services would like to defer to the court for their judgment? Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairments of the board and Lee and Remiss from Council Fitzgerald's office. I have a request for the board to ask the board to support this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Chair, we don't have a additional hints for a certain moment. Okay. Would that be a motion? Motion to approve. Third second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chairwoman Chess motion carries. Next we have case BOA 172 or 120 with the address of 157 to 157.8 hour avenue. If the applicant and the other representative or brother will they put you to find the case through the court? The morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is John Lyons. I'm an attorney with an office at 80 Cookeland Street in Wednesday. I mean, you just need closer to the light. I don't know if anyone else is having trouble hearing you. You hear me now. Not that much better. About now. Okay. Thank you. Sorry about that. My name is John Lyons. I'm an attorney with an office at 80 Cookeland Street in Quincy, Massachusetts. I'm here this morning with the proponents Lisa and Al Beasley who are lifelong Boston residents and 30-year residents immediately adjacent to this project. Also with me is Jennifer Ha the architect at Hugh Architecture located in Dorchester. This property is located in Dorchester. It is within the Roxbury zoning district in a three or four thousand district. The proposal is for five units. Jennifer will get more into the detail about the dimensional requirements and violations and the specific design of the project, the unit sizes, etc. I would just briefly outline the fact that this is creating five units of housing in a neighborhood on a lot which has been vacant for probably 50 or 60 years. It is on a corner, a curved corner. And I think when you see the design that Jennifer presented, it fits perfectly not only with the streetscape and the context of the neighborhood respecting the existing architecture. But the way the building is scaled down on the corner, it almost appears to be too attached to the wellings. It fits well. There are violations, but they're fairly typical within this neighborhood, which is fairly dense. The law is trapezoidal in shape, so it tapers along the front of the post building and is located on a corner lot. It creates difficulty in the hardship which justifies granting relief here. In addition, the cost of construction now almost dictates building a few more units than the code would permit to justify doing the project economically. Again, the violations in this instance are common among the existing dwellings in the immediate area. It's a mixture of two, three, and multi-family dwellings all within the 300 foot radius. There are some newer structures in this neighborhood, but the majority of the existing structures are early 20th century construction. The parking with Wyoming is five spaces, the post-rear parking will provide three, which again is comparable to other properties in the immediate area. A lot is fronted on Howard Avenue and Daukeet Street, and there is parking along the street. I think that the presentation by Jennifer will include some photographs that show how much curb there actually isn't as enabled. When you hear Daukeet Street or Roxport, you think it's so dense that you'll never find a parking space, but this particular location does have. And the reduced parking is also in conformity with the current planning initiative of the city to reduce parking when it's possible. Again, the design complements the existing character of the neighborhood that I believe the proposed relief is minimal in how new the spirit and intent of the code. I will end up to Jennifer to explain the actual proposed design. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair in the board. I apologize for a little tardiness. I turned on my video and I even crashed. So I will introduce myself. My name is Jennifer Ha, the principal architect at Q Architecture. My office is located at 53 H Harvard Street in Dorchester. And I will be presenting the proposed five unit residential project at 157 Howard. If we can go to the first page that would be helpful, thank you. The site is 4,330 square feet. So they can't corner a lot abouting Howard Avenue and Daukeet Street. It is in the 3 F 4000 zone. The proposal is to build a new 5 unit dwelling facing Howard Ave with three on-grade parking spaces facing Daukeet Street. The locus site map you can see the proposed building massing. We feel the scale fits in context compared to its neighboring buildings. The houses on this block are comprised mostly of three families that sit on a parcel averaging 3,000 square feet. We feel the proposed 5 family dwelling on the 4,303 square feet fits well in this context. The next page is the zoning refusal letter and you can skip that and you can skip the next page as well. This is the proposed site plan. And we can go to the next page actually for the plans. From these, sorry, next page with the next plans, the first floor plans, please. So from these plans, you will see the project comprises of five peanuts. One on the first floor, two on the second floor and two on the third floor. Three of the units are three better units and two of the units are one better units. The owners, Lisa and Al, live in the brick building next door at 159 power out for 29 years. They are retired and they plan to reside in the first floor 88 assessable unit during their golden age. So you see on the first floor plan that is meant for Lisa and Al to live with their family. The second and third floor is two units on each floor. Three bedrooms, one bath and one bedrooms, one bath. And they are identical to each other. There is a small basement to host mechanical and utility use only. And we can go, yes, the next. Thank you. The design is a traditional three story flat roof facade and resembles the neighboring story story, the dwellings on the street. We go to the next slide. We design a two-toned building to reflect the two units of two halves of the floor plan. The design includes front porches, balconies, front yard landscaping towards Howard and Al Keith. We think that the design supports an attractive and desire only for appeal. That's the end of the presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a testimony? No, I have a question. Sorry. Have you looked at an alternative parking design which pays over less of that site and maybe increases the usable open space? The parking is, can we go to the site plan possible so we can walk through that? Yes. So because of a few zoom in quickly, the backup space. So the backup space right now we're allowing a little bit over 20 feet. And so we basically are limited by just the backup distance of the cars. It's possible to have the cars be set back from the left lot line, the side lot line so that we can have a little bit more green space in front of the cars and then a little bit smaller backup space for the cars. So it is possible to gain a little bit more green space and we're happy to review that. And is that curb cut? How many spaces are you taking from the street with that curb cut? The curb cut is only, I think it was 12 feet. So there isn't too much. It's actually not too much that's being taken care of. Let me check on how many spaces are allowed in that street. It looks like it's maybe taking away one parking spot. Do you plan to enclose do plan to enclose the parking the way that it's showing the enclosure right now on Google Earth? The enclosure right now is done from the owners to protect the site from people ordering. But the there will be new fencing that would be for the site. I think the actual curb cut will actually remain open. And then the fence can be removed so that there is actually people living. They will be living in there. So security will be put up for the property and that type of fencing is no longer needed. Okay. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Would that be a public test testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record by name is Jeremy Bembery and the Roxbury Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the NICOD Services. We can ask completed community process. This is set up on a private meeting held on June 10th. But for guest president, our inquiries were addressed during the meeting with new opposition voiced. Next, we're going to move forward to present your face to the street president's association. Lawrence Aubroof and Belouc O'Ava new Quincy Street, Magnolia Street, and Howard Aubneboa Association. And they have approved the proposal. Today, our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office. May put services. We're like to defer to the board for the future. Thank you, next. We have a Michael Koso. My name is Michael Koso with project, right? I hosted the Neighborhood Association meeting that Jeremy referenced. The neighborhood recognizes that these are longstanding residents who have been positive for the community and are supporting this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that make a motion approval? Madam Chair, I'll make a motion approval. What provisos that the plan is submitted to the planning department for design review with attention to the landscape area, permeability, and potential redesign of that off street parking and rear yard. Is there a second? Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Belvizzo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Are you? Thank you. Ms. Panado. Yes. Chair Valencia, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. David. Next, we have case BOA 17343. Zero zero with the address of 36 Julian Street. If the applicant ends with the representative present, will they please explain to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, and members of the board. My name is Vernon Woodworth with the business address of 11 Elizabeth Street in Maddie Pan. I'm here with the owner and applicant, Maddie Batista, to describe the construction of a new three family at 36 Julian Street. I believe you'll be hearing confirmation of our successful neighborhood outreach, and then both in a butters meeting, and a successful meeting with the Douglas Street Neighborhood Initiative. This is a three-diversion of the proposed project showing the cantilever to allow parking, or street parking of two spaces, two out of the three required, next slide, please. And the client shows this is a narrow lot to under size, which is why we are cited for minimum rock area. The parking is behind the building with access along the side, making the first floor specifically very narrow, but the second and third cantilevering partially over that parking access. Next slide, please. Okay, we have the violations cited here, which I'll go through one by one. I mentioned minimum rock area. This is an allowed use of three dwelling units in the three F-5000 zone. The actual rock area is only, it's less than a 3000 square feet, and so we require grants for rock area and additional rock area, and we have a lot of work to do with the ground width and frontage of our sightings as well. But for the FAR, the maximum amount is 0.8 in the zone, and we are only at 0.9, so that's not a major increase. Height is compliant, usable open space, somewhat below the required 650 with 528 square feet. It's not specifically cited because of the street line alignment provision. The side yard is compliant on the parking side, but tapers down to 5 feet on the other side. And the rear yard is 4 feet and a few inches short of the required 30 feet. And parking, as I mentioned, requires three spaces for providing an exit. So that more or less sums up our presentation. Happy to take any questions. Thank you. I'm the assessment from the board. Here in Madden, Public Testimon. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Dorchester Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Payboard Services. The applicant can ask a plea to the community process, which consists of an abodeism related facility to the date of August 18th. That was well-intended and received overwhelming support from all. Next to the proposal was presented to Delish Street neighborhood initiative, where they approved the proposal to move forward in the process. Today, our office has received two letters of support supporting the proposal addressing the housing crisis from Senator Liz Miranda's office and state representative Warraels Office. Thank you for your time on the Ms. Office of Payboard Services. I'd like to defer to the board for the chat. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I think it is one person who wants me to read the support that is in the chat. Do you want me to read it over? Is it enough? Yes, please. Okay. This is from a new beginning to reentry services to the six-story street. As a doorless square merchant daughter, Kerry Kim from Alpha and Omega, we have been in the abode K for reentry in the community since 1980s. They have also been abode Bember and advisor for many of the reentry and profits including the Haley House in 1988. Reentry day programs have been over to our Roxbury community for decades. We support MBRS as a proud neighbor of the amazing ongoing reentry work, especially with our senior neighbors coming home. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other range of comments? Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Make a motion of approval. I feel that they coordinate with the planning department for design review. Thank you. Is there a second? I can. There's a separate. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Berbaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canada. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 173-0941. With the address of 36 gas in the street. If the applicant and all of the representatives present with their police, what in the case of the board? I need to recuse myself. Thank you. We are now a six-member board. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Steve Barclay from Foley, LA, Gallup, and Boston. On behalf of our client and your beginnings, reentry services, and which is the applicant in this appeal, we're here today to request a conditional use permit for a community center use at 36 gas in street indoorchester. A community center use would allow new beginnings to continue to provide reentry and other critical services to formally incarcerated individuals who are in the process of rebuilding their lives outside of correctional institutions. I'm here today with Stacey Borden, who is the executive director of new beginnings. In a minute, Stacey can speak in more detail about the proposed day program that is at the heart of this appeal. Before that, I'll just briefly explain the procedural history of this request and the property at 36 gas in street. For several years now, new beginnings has been providing reentry and wraparound services to formally incarcerated individuals at 36 gas in street as part of a transitional housing program. The board of appeals first approved the transitional housing use in 2021, along with certain revisions to the building, which is a single family home indoorchester. That initial board approval had a one-year sunset. Then in 2022, the board extended the approval for the transitional housing use for an additional three years. The construction activities that were approved by the board were completed in 2023 and a final certificate of occupancy was issued on October 18th of 2023. Stacey will explain in just a moment, new beginnings has made the decision to pivot away from a transitional housing model to providing services through a day program format. This programmatic shift is for a number of reasons, including the fact that changes to applicable laws and department of corrections policy have led to a decrease in the number of formerly incarcerated individuals who are seeking transitional housing services. However, there remain many formerly incarcerated individuals who would stand to benefit from the variety of in-person and virtual services that new beginnings provides. Therefore, consistent with its mission, new beginnings is modifying its program structure and applying for this new conditional use, which again is for a community center, in an effort to meet those individuals where they are. And finally, before I turn it over to Stacey, I just want to confirm to the board that the present appeal does not propose any construction activities or physical changes to the building at 36 gas in street. The only relief being requested at this time is a change in occupancy of the premises from transitional housing to community center. And I'll now turn it over to Stacey so she can speak about the details of the day program, but I'm also available to answer any questions that the board may have. Stacey. Thank you so much Attorney Bartlett. Good morning Madam Chair and board. My name is Stacey Borden. I am the founder and executive director of New Beginnings Rancher Services. I hold a master's degree in mental health on the license substance abuse counselor and I'm trauma from certified. As Steve Attorney Bartlett explained, we are a day center now and we serve a number of genders, all genders actually and we've cut down. Right from today to then you are freezing on and off. Sorry, sir, with my computer keeps shifting. You can try to. Is my voice cut off? Yeah, maybe just go off camera. It's probably just bad. Okay. A little better. Yes, ma'am. So we have an amazing team here at New Beginnings Rancher Services. I want to say that all the programs that we provide are focused on our population that are coming out of prison environments to help them really be successful in their reentry. We've had 99% recidivism rate since the past nine years and we continue to keep our policies basically the same as when we were residential. Our policies is the same. Our population comes out. We have good neighbor policies. We feed the community as we have a pantry on the lawn. We have a book pantry. We have a knob can key us. We provide substance abuse counseling to financial literacy, to anger management and healing. We have an amazing culinary audience and partnership with Berkeley School of Music and Emerson Prison Project. We do a lot of communication skills with the bridge project through every day Boston and really just trying to provide holistic care to our population that comes out of these prison environments. So our mission again is really to empower and uplift our individuals that are impacted and come back to community and families. And so I know that I keep going in and out. I think I can stop the have really grateful for this presentation and grateful for our fully whole team that has really been guiding us these past almost for the five years. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Thank you. Hearing no questions from the board will take public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Dorchester Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant asked completely the community process within system of an abode is meeting facilitated on August 11th. That was well attended and received support from majority of attendees. Support is our outside of the abode in radius with one civic member voice and concerns for our community center. A commercial property being placed between residential properties can be justified as a necessity. Next to proposals presented to how one got it. Gaston, oldest vote that I meant association on October 27th were vote for non opposition was reached with the request of our provisor deed restriction to remain residential. Today our office has received two letters of support and support of the change between transitional residential housing to an adult reentry day center. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have two people in the 10th section. But the personal Michael Cosew, I'm not sure if you're speaking again. Yes, my name is Michael Cosew. I'm with Project Rye Inc. We're at 320, the letter A, Louis Avenue. We're actually in a butter to the property as well. We actually hosted the home organic gas notice bill, better than association meeting. They do want to ask that provides will be submitted as part of this process that this conversion of this decision we've made to this applicant only this and any future development or changes to the property with a new property owner. We brought that through a community process. This site is in a block of two family houses and the association wants to make sure that once new beginnings goes on to another adventure that this property comes back to community process. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next we have Ivan Claire. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair and zoning board members. I'm Eva Clark for Austin Street and Dorchester, executive pastor of life charge. I just wanted to express my enthusiasm support for this proposal. Thank you. In the last comment is that the person that the comment that I read previously, he was in support for this project from Kriki. Thank you. Thank you. That may have motion. I think this is a really good project. Project is important to support the community. We also receive several layers of support so I make a motion of approval. Yes, we have a second. Second, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bada Braza. Oh, excuse yourself. Sorry, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Charles, just a motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Happy New Year. Thank you. Next we have Casey. We want to ask about. Thank you for the reminder, Madam Chair. Since we passed the 11 o'clock hour, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the element. We'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 o'clock hour. Hearing none, return to case BOA 1744076 with the address of 32, Hanson Street. If the applicant and other representative are present, will they please apply the case to the board? Yes, Madam Chair. John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 Beach Road or Lane's Mass. This is a project in the south end and a multi-residential Ro House district and subject to landmarks review. The scope of the project is to change the occupancy from three dwelling units to two dwelling units, extensive exterior facade renovations, including a new windows and interior alterations to accommodate the change of occupancy, to extend living space into the basement for the use of unit one, to legalize an existing roof deck for the exclusive use of unit number two, to install two roof condenses, and the rear facade renovations and openings, including two rear decks above the street level, which will be project six feet into the rear yard and be supported by brackets. The scope of the work and the cost triggers groundwater applicability. The approved Boston Water and Sew Commission site plan plus its compliance letter has been filed with ISD and the whole harmless letter has been filed with the groundwater trust. Madam Chair, do you wish a separate vote on this and have Kristen confirm conformity with these filings or should all proceed? You should proceed. We'll do this together. Okay. The first violation cited is the proposed townhouse extension in the rear yard if we could screen to A202 for reference. This is it. It shows the proposed two rear decks, which would be supported by brackets and extending into the rear yard. It also shows shows the existing roof deck, which is screened from the Hanson Street by existing architectural features. If we could screen down to two or one, this shows the view of the front facade. Landmarks has approved all the proposed facade restorations and renovations. Again, the architectural feature of the roof screens, the existing roof deck, to seeking legalizing the roof deck, it triggers restrictive roof structure regulations, which are intended to preserve the uniformity of the street scape. In a respectfully suggest legalizing this existing deck will not alter the view skate of Hanson Street. The last violation is citing for a rear yard insufficiency. This is a technical question and I respectfully suggest that this is not a violation pursuant to section 375 of the code. If we look at the initial diagram of the project, we'll note that the rear wall is not parallel with the lot line. At one corner of the right on the diagram, the extension is 18.5 feet rather than the required 20 feet. However, the average of the extension is 22.5 feet and pursuant to section 5, this is deemed compliant. So I leave it to the board to determine if any relief as to this cited violation is necessary. With that, I am open to questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones. I'm setting the mayor's office to meet with the services regarding 32.5 feet in the street. Our office diverse to the board stretch, but this matter, a community process was conducted, including a butters meeting held on 91625. That was likely attended by about two community members. The feedback from this meeting was concerned with the scale of the project and the historical nature of the neighborhood. Due to the description and the refusal letter, excuse me, due to the description on the refusal letter, not aligning with the proposed work on the first butters meeting. My office requested a second butters meeting to ensure that the community was appropriately notified and was hosted on 91625. Excuse me? That was not attended by any community members. The proposal was also reviewed by the 8th Street neighborhood association and did not require the applicant to meet with them. At this time, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services, the first of the board stretch, one on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Melissa Loa and I would be speaking on behalf of Councillor Fence Office. Councillor Flynn would like to go on record in support based on a good community process and no concerns raised by neighbors and the Ellis neighborhood association. He respectfully asked a team to continue to work closely with the community on any quality of live issues during the construction fees. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Christian Summon Ali, Bas and Rowan trust and we have both G-card lives from the applicant and happy Thanksgiving to everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. There are no additional comments. Okay, could that be our motion? Motion of approval. There are second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Blendziel. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Thank you very much. Motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. Can I quickly ask you any request for what you also deferral from this timeframe? And it's not then we'll go on to case B.O.A. 177-419. Okay. What's the address of two to four daily road? If the applicant and what they represent the present, what they please explain in case of the board. My name is Tony Anthony Musto. I represent the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. I'm a member of the applicant. Please let us know where you want to go. Okay. I'm unable to believe I'm unable to share on my screen right now. Please. Let us know. Okay. Okay, this would be the refusal letter. I don't know if it's showing up on my screen right now. Well, we don't see your screen. You can only refer to what is displayed from the ambassador. What are your questions? Okay, all right. Okay, okay, I apologize. Okay. So right now, what's being shown on the screen looks like the floor plans. The project essentially received a denial of insufficient off-street parking, insufficient law area, excessive floor area ratio, insufficient usable open space, insufficient front yard setback, and insufficient side yard setback. So this, the history of the law here is that it's two laws. It essentially is adjoining to a three family residence in that area. The address is 6th-day-any-road. This is 2 to 4-day-any-road. The address at 6th-day-any-road, the three family law was built back in 1910 prior to the zoning code within the city of Boston. It was actually under the Norfolk County's jurisdiction at that time. Subsequent to that in 19, I believe it's 1947. The owner of the 6th-day-any-road purchased became the owner of both this lot and question in that specific three family property. The property remained there adjoining to the floor, rather 6th-day-any-road, up until now, both of the properties are next to each other. They have separate tax bills, Alex, Musto, or Alessandro, Musto. The petitioner has a bona fide purchase and sale agreement for the law itself and not the three family residents that has a separate tax bill. This has been presented to the neighborhood committee in the mayor's office. In the past, I wasn't present at the original neighborhood meeting. However, from what I heard, the neighborhood was opposed to building anything on the law, notwithstanding the fact that the petitioner, Alex Musto, is seeking to erect a two-family dwelling. In the past, I believe there was a previous buyer who backed out or did not proceed with purchasing the property. He was seeking a three-family residence. Mr. Musto thought a two-family residence is reasonable for the area. It's a smaller project, but given the housing crisis, it will still lead two prospective buyers to home ownership within the city of Boston. Mr. Musto has been a very experienced builder for 30 years. He's done similar projects within the high-park neighborhood in the past. He's even built a residence on the other street for his own son on Comor Road in high-park. This particular project, he'd be addressing any sort of issues. He's not a factory by any means. He's not a large company. He's a sole proprietor. If this variance were allowed, he would be able to essentially, he's there on a day-to-day basis, micro-managing the project. He's had nothing but great things set about him in the past for previous home sales. Mr. Musto, why are we positive and let folks ask questions? Sure. And you just go through the dimensional violations, particularly the side yards? Yes, it's just, I guess I'm a little... Like what's required and what are you proposing? Right. Let me know. What's missing is a site pop plan. Usually we see a survey pop plan. It's not included in the plans. I do have it right here. We can't share screen so we don't have it. Okay. I do... Is there any way I could email this over if we get a second call to try to share it? Well, I don't know if it's the default or what. Can I make a recommendation? I'm not sure which one's sooner, a full board Tuesday meeting or a subcommittee, but I can see this being brought in front of the subcommittee if that is sooner. Caroline? Nothing at all. Next. I'll be right here. This can be on, would be January 27th, the next subcommittee, would be January 22nd. Okay. So we're talking about the difference in five days. So any preference? January 22nd. That's a good day. Okay. We have a motion. Madam Chair, I looked at the floor of motion of deferral for January 22nd. And please, if the applicant can ensure that you submit your survey pop plan to the ambassador to be included in this submission, right after this meeting, would be helpful. You can't read me the logic without a certified pop plan, so we need to see that. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Toner? Yes. Mr. Brasa? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Bernardo? Yes. Chair, well, it's yes. Promotion carries. See you then. Thank you. Next, we have case BRA 175, 425 zero, with the address of 18 1 Jesper Street. Is the applicant and the way they represent the present? Will they please you submit to the board? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Derek Small, of a business dress of 51 dobs and roll. And we're here today seeking relief to replace the existing headhousing and red to roof deck at 18 Winchester Street. The zoning sub district here is a row house sub district, and we have one violation, and that's roof structure restriction. Madam Chair, members of the board, the deck and the headhouse already exist. But because we had some renovations within the property, we were cited by the zoning code for the roof structure restriction, which the zoning code requires a hatch and the building code requires the headhousing. Because we are nine stories, no, because we have five stories, excuse me. The zoning code requires us to have a headhousing house on top for access to the roof. And that is our sole violation. You guys probably saw in the file this did go through Bay Millage Historical Society and was approved as well. So we're just replacing what was there, and we were cited on the conflict of the hatch versus the headhouse, which exists in a lot of areas in the city of Boston. Thank you. And roof deck is exclusive for unit nine on the top floor. Okay, are there questions from the board? Hearing none now, what was that's the morning? Hello Madam Chair, I'm from the board. My name is Avagones, representing the Mayor's Office of the Nebrett Services. We're carrying 18 Winchester Street, our office to first board a community process was conducted, including on the butters, meaning held on 91525. That was with everybody, two community members. The feedback from the meeting was overall, no issues with the project, but some expressed some concerns about construction vehicles in the neighborhood. My office did receive one letter of position expressing concerns over the headhouse. The proposal was also reviewed by both the Bay Village Neighborhood Association Planning Committee and the BBNA Executive Board at their meeting, and no formal opposition or support was expressed providing the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of the Nebrett Services, the first of the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Good morning, honorable Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Melissa Lowe, and I would be, I'm speaking on behalf of Cancer Reef Lins Office, and Cancer Reef Lins would like to go on record in opposition. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, would that be a motion? I'll make a motion of approval. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pornado. Yes. Your votes, yes. The motion carries the vote. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, have a good day. Thanks for coming to all. Jerry, did you call? You say third. I don't know. Mr. Turner. Yes. I don't think you did. Thank you. That's okay. Thank you. Okay. Now the chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you again. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Now the chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you again. Thank you again. Next. We have case VOA 175, 5712. You want to start interrupting when asked about 1130. The furls are up. The grass. Thanks. Thank you again. Yes. If we have any request for the jaws of the furls from 1130 type, right? Yes. Mr. Stembridge, 87th Street. So, those would be the kind of case. Eight VOA 1482368. The address of 87th Street. And also the case of VOA 1482378. Also, with the address of 87th Street. If you go ahead and join with, yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Members of the board, Richard. It's 2.25 on the street on behalf of the petitioner. We're requesting an referral. We've got a few items to still deal with on the building code matter. And I believe there's a groundwater item that's still being addressed. So we're pressing the girl. Okay. Deeds. We can do January 27th. We can do January 27th. February 3rd. February 24th. March 10th. March 24th. People, 7th. And the gender is fine, please. Okay. So, January 27th. Okay. With that, we have a motion. Motion to defer. This case, these case will be, so January 27th. They're second. Second. They're quick. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pnaudle. Yes. Chair Valencia, the motion carries. Thank you. 100 hunting to nav. Please, Mr. Stembridge. This request is for case BOA, 170. 345 with the address of 100 hunting avenue. We can go ahead and turn the dragon. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Madam Chairman, members of the Board of Attorney Jeff Drago with Drago and Tusconto with the Business Address of 11 Beacon Street. We are asking for a deferral on the matter. We need to go before the back, before the neighborhood associations, for updates to both the public and the public. We are asked by some of the elected officials as well as the group to appear. And we do have to meet with the city councilor again to go over some changes and updates to this matter. So we are seeking deferral. Thank you. Did any of those dates mentioned? What was the 27th would be perfect if that's available? Is that still available? Okay. Yes. So, if you're going to 27th, may I have an motion? Motion is required. This case to January 27th. Is there a second? Again. Was that a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bada-Baza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion here. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Well, the wonderful thanks, Jimmy. Mr. Stembridge. 18 interval street, please. So this will be for case BOA. 1707353 with the address of 18 intervals street. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with the Allen's and Marinesi. Business address of 168H Street. First floor. I'm here requesting another deferral on this matter. In full disclosure, Madam Chair, members of the board, I was retained by the applicant to represent them just at the hearing. With my advice, the applicant is making substantial changes in the plans. But there's been some leg time of getting an updated site plan as well as updated architectural drawings. So I'm here today, again, requesting that deferral in order to allow for these substantial changes to be resumbed to the board. Okay. And what timeframe of the dates that was mentioned? I would say if anything later would be possible. So I would say late January, if that's available or beginning of February, just to allow them enough time considering that there's been some leg time between the two. Caroline? Oh, we could do January 27th. February 3rd. February 24th. January 27th would be perfect. Please. Thank you. Okay. Last one, Caroline. Madam motion. Motion to deferral. This case through January 27th. Madam, second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lawrence. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lawrence, yes. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betaprasso. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pennato. Yes. Yes. Mr. Carries. Thank you. It's there are no further requests for the drawings from the last couple of years. We'll return to the 11 o'clock hearings and go to case B.O.A. 1 7 5 7 1 2. With the address of 242 Newberry Street. Use the applicant's hand or their representative or president. What they please explain to the board. Hi, my name is Jason Juby. I'm the owner of the Boston tattoo company. Currently, we are licensed to operate at 244 Newberry Street. We've been using 242 as our lobby area. We've been able to acquire after opening 244. So we are looking to add that use to that parcel for possible future expansion. I also have another address next coming up. So I decided to do both at the same time. The 150 state street address was a temporary, we were licensed here temporarily. I'm sorry. Were these supposedly red as companion cases? Because we're on Newberry Street and you just mentioned state street. I'm sorry. Yes. I think the next case will also be. Okay. So let's focus on this case and then we'll get to the next case. Sure. That's the end of it. We'll just look at that. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Here in 9th Annabelle Customs. Madam Chair, I remember, see you at the office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed the community process. Our office oversaw distribution of an informational flyer soliciting comments to all occupied parcels. And a 300 foot radius that solicited no responses. The applicant met with the neighborhood association of the back bay and secured their non-opposition. That background our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. You're the right chair. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments at the moment. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Motion for approval. Is there a second? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pionato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Mr. Carries. Thank you. Next, we have case Meoway. 1-7-5-5-6-4-1. With the adios of 1-15 to 152, stay straight. I believe this is the zooby field. Okay. Please proceed. Sure. So, please proceed. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sure. So, I, this particular address earlier this year we did a pop-up event and we realized as a temporary body art studio through the city of Boston and we're looking to change the use of the third floor to a body art studio. which really won't require much work at all. Since the header, we've been inspected by the City Health Department. It really doesn't require much work other than the equipment needed to run a tattoo studio. Okay, thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing that, I don't know public testimony. Team the man's office, neighborhood services. We're getting 150 to 152 States, three in our office, different to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted including a distribution of subcoding fires on 8, 11, 25. During the community comment period, I did not receive any feedback regarding the proposal. The World District Neighborhood Association reviewed the proposal and has expressed support. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services, different to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your opinion. It's a reaction. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, that may have motion. Motion should have a comment. There are a second. That is Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Trana. Yes. Ms. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. One new Mr. Collins. Okay. Ms. Bernado. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1783949, with the address of 100 Utah Street. If the applicant and the representative of the president will they please find the case from the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lynn's 245th Summary Street, he's Boston on behalf of the applicant. If we could just jump down in this slide, three to give us a little bit of perspective here for what we're looking at. Next. Yeah, perfect. So Madam Chair, members of the board, this is a proposal that we combine three separate lots into a single lot. The lot would then be about 2000 over 2000s per feet. Historically, these lots have been de-restricted through the city's butter's lots program. And if we're making vacant, probably since the late 1980s, I believe there was structure on this site previously. And it burned down and decided to be clear that when they get after tax foreclosure. So we are proposing to introduce a new three-storey for you in a residential dwelling on the site after we combine the lots. And although this is in the EBR-3 zoning district, which typically allows three family or three units on a single lot, there's an exception, the ER-3, that if you're a lot is more than 55 feet with, then you are eligible to go up to a total of six units on a single lot. This lot, once combined, would have almost 60 feet of frontage along Brook Street, which is the longer side of the lot. And therefore, it does qualify for the exception in EBR-3 zoning sub-lister. If we jump down to the next slide, I think we can probably let us slide 10 just to give a better perspective here of what we're looking at. Okay, so yes, so we have the site plan here showing these three lots that are involved. Three particular lots are at the corner of Utah and Brook Street. This is located in the Ego Hill section of East Boston. We go to the next slide, please. We show the combined condition of the next slide, which will show the proposed condition. We can talk a little bit about the relief that's necessary from the dimensional high-altitudes that were set at the next slide, please. So our structure would be located at close to the corner at Utah Street. We do a setback, which would be the rear property at 10 feet. We also have a setback on the right side, three feet. The three foot setback on the right is compliant with the EBR-3 because of the corner walk from the road street. We would have to address setbacks, both along Utah and Brook Street, which is one of the items that the planning department has cited in its recommendation to approve the project subject to design review. We respect the 10 foot setback, similar to the previous project I presented today, when we're dealing with the corner a lot, the condition for the rear yard is really dictated by where the front door is located, or where the front door can be located. As I said, we would be allowed to meet with the three feet of the side yard if this were considered a side yard, but because it's a rear yard, we'd be required at one third of the lock depth. I would remind the board that there is an exception look out, although this doesn't specifically qualify for it, but we do have a shallow lot exception in East Boston that will permit a minimum of 10 feet and where a calculation will be applied to show that this does not need the full depth of the rear lot setback, that rear setback would be required. Because we are at 10 feet, I would suggest that this is compliant with the purpose and intent of the code to allow for the shorter setback. If we go now to, we can probably get out to 17, which is the elevation to the building. Yeah, so we should as a three story building. There is an overhang that does come out on the public way. That is consistent with the diminimous projection policy of the city boss and applies for overhangs on the public way. We do not particularly require a vertical discontinuous as long as we keep them with 36 inches. And that is something that will be permitted and certainly addressed as part of the design review. We have a slide 19 to go to perspectives. I will just give an idea of a three-dimensional standpoint as to how this would set up on the site. Again, we see that walkway down the right side of the three-foot setback. And then how it would sit on the lot and relationship to the street in the corner. We keep that setback in the rear, as it said, at about 10 feet. With respect to the relief, that would be necessary, which was cited in the public notice and refusal letter. The front yard, minimum three feet is required. We are proposing one foot. However, we would suggest that the moral alignment may come into play, especially on the brick street side, to allow for this to be a closer setback than three-foot that is required. As I mentioned, the rear setback would be under a lot depth because by combining a lot to be no longer qualified for the exception for the shadow line. However, the code does permit a 10-foot setback in those instances. And with respect to the Austrian parking, we opted for rather than having a curb cut and parking at the ground level, there's really limited space for Austrian parking in the site. Instead, we're opting for a variance. I would point out to the board that we are able to address the fourth unit or a lot of the fourth unit based upon a lot with. We would not require any Austrian parking after reunites. It's the trailer, opposite the fourth unit, that is resulted in the violation of the Austrian parking requirements where a set's one premium is required. Last one, we'll pause there and take any questions in the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? No, I do agree in regards to the moral alignment. Sorry, I just lost my on Brook Street. The moral alignment does make sense. And the three-foot setback is recommended by BPD on Utah Street makes sense given the adjacent property. No further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a good testimony? Madam Chair, members, those are board. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Chair. The Board has been addressing for one and the Office is continue. This is a question I had to ask you to explain. Me hold this phone. Therefore has the address ofcontestors. Therefore has the phrase you make to him. some added services in the streets judgment. No, no. Simple. 질�erstян pumps into the city. You man. Sorry. You man.あー got that. You even consider a new item. I don't know. I don't know what the continue goods are. You really? I don't know. I don't know. Oh no. Use hammer forразуheal went back. Sonnie, was that information safe? I'm sure a few hours ago. motion of approval with a provisor that the project undergoes BPD design review, specifically paying attention to the brief foot set back on Utah Street, but to maintain the model alignment on Brook Street. Is there a second? Back at the goat. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barrazo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Carrey. Mr. Murr. Yes. Mr. Carrey. Mr. Murr. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Carrey. Mr. Murr. Thank you very much. I have a great thanksgiving. Thank you. With that, can we take a 15 minute break? Thank you. Thank you. Recordings stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You Zeus. I would like to ask you, Zeus. You guys all, What are the root psilomagic body? What are the root cенсia недost açılating cycloman позanta? What are the root psiloman позanta? Alright, I'm at Wesleystankin is autonomous subscribe, okay, I'm aware. Please continue to ask for help to discuss this. I want to inform you that we have the mounting risk method that the BSP consonant will make it. Okay, we'll keep going Mr. Valencia. Here. Ms. Turner. Here. Ms. Bervazzo. Here, present. Mr. Collins. Present. Ms. Pannau. Present. Mr. Sembrange. Bill, who's that chicken here, may God be? We sure can. I'll hold off on the camera for right now. Please. Okay, no worries. We'll be sure to watch the sandwich. Thank you, Ms. Luna. I did. Again. Did I skip you, Ms. Turner? No, you didn't. No, I'm here. I thought, thanks. Okay, I listen. I know. I'm sorry. Okay. All right. One of the flared jurors, Mr. Sembrange. Thank you, Madam Chair. With that, we'll go through the rediscussions schedule for 1130 A.M. And we'll have to again, if there are any virtual halls or deferrals, requested from the timeframe. In that case, we'll move on to case B.O.A. 1-7-5-00-7-9. With the address of two Bon-Anne Broke, if the applicant and or the representative of the brother, will they put in the case in Borg? Good morning. My name is Edwin Lerzana, I'm the homeowner. Can you guys hear me? Okay. I'll make sure. Yes, sir. Okay. The changes that we're making is just to the home that we live in. We've had a family member. My mother-in-law, we've had a couple of lunchments that she's going to be living with us. The unit that they've heard the basement was unfinished, as you've said, in the home office before. All we're doing is adding a bedroom in a bathroom. There's no structure changes. There's really no other changes. We had something that it said with a FRA. I guess that's what we did in qualifying. Too much square footage. So we're just looking to be allowed to finish the, you know, the project here. Basically this is what opens the Virginia there. I actually go to the next one. That's what we're looking to do. We just want my mother-in-law to have an additional room for herself just a room in a bathroom in the closet. That's why I don't have a lot. I feel a little bit unoverwhelmed because the other people you have presented definitely had a little bit more stairs than I do. We're just trying to, I don't quite sure how we got here, but we're definitely going to follow the road. You're fine. Thank you. Any any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair and members, Siggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process or office oversight distribution of an informational flutter to a virus which solicited no comments to our office. The West Rocksbury neighborhood council loaded to support this application. Our office would also like to express support for this medically necessary renovation. We urge the board to approve their relief. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thanks. Would that be a motion? Motion to. And the second. We did. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Voluzia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapurraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pinnato. Yes. Chair Voluzia. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a good day. Have a better. And here. It's too. Sir. Next we have case. B.O.A. 176. Zero to nine to. What the address of 19. Mr. Stembridge. If the applicant and what their representative are present. What the. Yes. Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the blue. My name is James Christopher of 686 architects. The business address of 10. Full of road in. Brain. There any. Okay. So we are a six number board. Thank you. With the business address of 10. Full of road and brain. Here today on behalf Van Hong, the owner of 19 Midland Street. This project is before the board. Guess it was earlier this year with a larger rear edition and was denied without prejudice. As such, we went back and redesigned the project. We are still seeking relief from the use itself. This is a. Proposed three family unit. We need relief on the FAR, which is required to be 0.5. We'll be at 0.95. The maximum allowable building height and feet and stories. And. And the use itself. Next slide, please. This is our existing site plan and the additional happen on the right and slightly to the rear just a two foot bump on the second and third floors. Next slide, please. This shows our proposed site plan. Again, you can see that small bump out to the rear. Accurate parking. Previously, the addition went all the way back over the and can't delete over the parking. Since this process, we've removed that parking portion of the addition will be adding on to the right side of the building. You can see in that right ten English sheet there and then the driveway is to the right of that. Next slide, please. If you can skip down to the a drive is easily existing plans. It's an existing single family two story right there. It's good. Thank you. So again, the proposal is to create a three unit building the first floor consists of a three bed two bath unit of 1,335 square feet. We are now proposing to extend the basement. So the new addition will be on a slab on grade with minimal excavation on the site. Next slide, please. The second and third floor again, three bed two bath units, you two being 1,442 square feet. And unit three being 1,535 square feet. We conducted the commune process. We met with the Abbotters on the Civic Association. We did remove some balconies from the right side of the building, the driveway side here at the request of one of the Abbotters and those balconies have now been added to the left rear of the building so that each unit gets a little bit of outdoor space. It's a small balcony large enough for like a chair or something along those lines. Next slide, please. This is our roof clean. Again, you can see the small bump out to the parking in the rear. Next slide, please. And then in elevation, we are proposing a man's out roof with a small rear extension. And the third floor addition. Next slide. And I believe that's it. This project has been through a lot of community process. The middle industry consists of a lot of housing stock that's very similar to this directly across the street at 18 project is recently constructed like this. And next to that building, so I feel the use in the design of very appropriate. But without I'll answer any questions that I can. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Eva Jones and I will be representing the mayor's office and the new bread services regarding 19 midland street office full deferred reports judgment on this matter. Another community process for this proposal was conducted on 415 25, which was likely attended by the community. The feedback was some concerns about the size and the density as they had expressed previously. But there was some support regarding the proposal because of the change of the deck plans as well as some community members also express support signing. That it was a good project and they were happy that it included perfect. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed by the Columbia 7 Health Civic Association in July. They did vote to support the proposal at this time. The mayor's office and the new bread services. The first is the board's judgment in this matter. Thank you, everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Well, Madam Chair, members and board, we, and we miss from Council's office. Offers the leg on records for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have Stephen George. Stephen, you can admit yourself now. Stephen George, you are in that intersection. You can admit yourself. Okay. My name is Stephen George. I am a direct abitum 16 Maryland Street right behind to the rear of 19 Midland Street. I also own 14 Maryland Street, which is also a direct abitum to 19 Midland Street. I am positive the project has presented. I would not be opposed if the concerns that I brought up in both the budget's meetings. And also the last CBA here in the lender were addressed. The general last meeting, the CBA meeting and the abundance meeting. Some members of the board expressed concern on the success of the split footage of the building. And also eliminating green space by turning the rear yard into a parking lot. Progress has been made on reducing the size of the building. But the red yard is still being eliminated. Or the green space being eliminated. And the parking lot has dropped. A red yard with 16 Maryland and 14 Maryland Street. That are actively used by families that reside there as it is the only usable green space. There is an aristropic crash zone adjacent to a seven foot wide parking space on the Maryland Street. 16 Maryland Street, the Lightline. The fact that the parking space is about seven feet, a envision parking in Roachan onto the grass strip, and also right onto my White Line at 16 Maryland Street. I don't think seven feet is sufficient for an SUV or a bullscares. One option could be to keep the existing driveway as is, eliminate the rear yard parking, and show landscape and fence that the solution was on the design drawings, the lesson the impact of turning the single family house into a three family, which more than doubles the FAA square footage. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Does the applicant not too briefly address the comments? We certainly understand Mr. George's concerns. We did try to address them. We did reduce the building significantly, but the parking we felt was something that was beneficial and some of the neighbors liked it. We understand that we can't win on all fronts, but we tried to maintain as much open space on the site while making the building function. It appears mentioning that directly next to Mr. George's property into the rear of ours is two parking lots for the wreck. But thank you very much. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, a motion? I make a motion for approval. There's a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Browze. Yes. Mr. Collins. The interview is monthly. Sorry. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. The next two cases have been deferred. So that takes us to case B-O-A. 171-8356. With the address of 25 to 27 Ed Barrow Street. Is the applicant to enter their representative present? Would they please the plans of the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board of the trainee Ryan Spitz, with that on the Maranasi Business Address of 168-H Street. First for us, so Boston. Joining me today are the owners Jackson and Alice Lee, as well as the project I protect at Leigh at Albert from two and associates. The proposal in front of us today is for a change of occupancy on an existing five-story commercial building from a showroom, retail store, and restaurant with unfinished space in the basement, to office, professionally used on the fourth and fifth floor, a pool hall on the third floor, office, professional use on the second floor, community, and retail use on the first floor in a social club within the basement. Currently, the first floor allowed just spaces occupied by best printing. There is also a smaller space that is vacant on the first floor. Second floor is occupied by a spa in a prayer room and also has an additional vacant space. The fourth and fifth floor are both currently vacant. The social club in the basement and the pool hall on the third floor both require conditional use permits. The proposed project is located within the historic Chinatown Protection area. There are many different uses within this area, such as small restaurants, cafes, spars, and even other social clubs that contain module on tables, just as this proposal does specifically at 11 Ed and Varro Street, which is a building that contains five floors of these tables. I'd like to stress the fact that there is no gambling being proposed with either of these two uses. I understand the stigma surrounding the two uses in gambling, but the landlord and the tenants both agree that there will be no tolerance for any gambling within these locations. Both uses, particularly the Mejong tables, are a big part of Chinese culture relating to the social aspect. Again, these locations will be made available for social aspects, and fun, not gambling, just like chess and bridge. I'd like to draw your attention to a recent World Reticulous September 6, 2025, talking about the uptake of these types of social clubs, mentioning that it's really a game, and it's really a social club, and a place to unplug from phones while connected to their Chinese culture. Again, this is exactly the scope of business being proposed here. I would ask the board to be not to be tainted by many of these underground locations that exist in the Chinatown neighborhood that give a social club like this one a bad wrap without leaving an opportunity. I've read the Planning Department recommendation, and I respectfully disagree. It appears that recommendation is based upon a concern that these uses could lead into gambling. Well, if that's the case, then many uses being approved by this board could be looked at as potentially leading to gambling, which I personally believe that should not be the basis of their recommendation. This is a conditional use where the code has already determined that this use is appropriate here. We need only demonstrate that the specific conditions are met. Neighboring impact, this type of use is already operating at many locations in this neighborhood, specifically again at 11 N and Barrel Street. These uses here are appropriate for this location and will not adversely affect the neighborhood. Traffic and safety, there will be no hazards of vehicles or pedestrians as the majority of the participants will walk to the location. It will be in harmony with the zoning intent by allowing the community to socialize within their culture. They will be regulated hours, and this will be membership only club. In fact, this is aligned with the imagined Boston 20th-everity by activating spaces with community oriented uses. No nuisance will be created by such a use that is calming in this area. The applicant will continue to work closely with the community and are committed to ensuring that there will be no gambling associated with these uses. These uses will serve as a genuine neighborhood need while respecting the character of the neighborhood. The social club will serve as a vital cultural function in Chinatown. Mazjong is not merely a game but an integral part of the Chinese social tradition. Spending for centuries bringing together multiple generations for social connection, mental stimulation, and building communities. At this point, I'm going to turn it back over to you, Madam Chair, for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, I have a question. So it's a private membership. How does one game membership? What is the process like? So the membership here would be typical, as you would apply for a membership, but there would be a fee to become a member itself. Thank you. I would just figure out I didn't add in the hours of operation for the club would be from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. and then for the pool hall from 3 p.m. to 12 a.m. And can you talk about how they will ensure that there's no gambling going on during these Mazjong games? So that would have to be also the tenant itself. So the landlord is here bringing this application on behalf of the two tenants there. So between the lease agreements that they do have in place, specifically not allowing any sort of gambling. So that would be respectfully out of the tenants obligations to ensure that no gambling is being conducted on these properties. Have there been issues about gambling at this property in the past? Is there anything there that could construe one to think there might be gambling? Yeah, I mean, so Ms. Perala, that's a great question. So a couple of things in here. So as we know, there are some of these organizations that are underground in Chinatown which give bad wraps for social clubs like this. Yeah, so back, I believe it was prior to the pandemic, is when this work took place. So the landlord in the tenants pulled permits, had a contractor. It was brought to their attention after these uses were put into play that these uses were not allowed uses within the zoning code. So at that point in time when it was first discovered that they put a stop. I'm not aware of any sort of gambling that was being associated with the proposal during that time period. But what I am disclosing is that they were currently operating. And under that current operation, once it was discovered they weren't allowed to operate those uses. They shut those uses down. They closed the down and hence here trying to legalize the uses in front of the board today. Okay. Thank you. Are there other questions on the board? Are there any restrictions for this project? For these project? And also, what is the security plan from this site? So I didn't hear your second part, Mr. Valencia, of the question. Yes, the first one is about age. Restriction is that for 20,000 and older and the second one to ensure that there is no gambling argue with the project going to have private security or where it's the plan for security. So I definitely think that they could consider some type of security. The security would be with the managers who are used to dealing in this type of business itself to kind of oversee it. As of right now, there is no age restrictions on there primarily when it does consist of the senior citizens of the neighborhood who actually take the benefit of an organization. But again, they're not going to discriminate on the actual age. But we would consider if it was a crew, then there was some sort of provisional putting an age restriction on there of joining as far as the membership. I'm sure the applicant would be happy to do so. Thank you. Can you guys from the city on this at some point? Let's go through your member, Tati, on any member of questions and you can now receive them there. Understand what you're saying turns out to be the governor's presence to speak to the salsa. Yes, I believe so Alice is. I don't think she is. I think Alice and Jack are both arguing on the Alice. I think they are, I don't think they are able to speak. I think they're just under the participant list. I think they're under attendees. Yes, Alice is here under an attendee. I mean, I can probably try to answer your questions, Mr. Stembridge, is best as possible. I just want to hear from them. No offense to you, for sure. So Alice, just to remind you, so Alice and Jack are the landlords here. They're taking the goodwill of trying to bring the tenants forward for these uses as many of these, as many of these, as you can see, this building is being vacant at this point. And just trying to bring something that would be beneficial to the neighborhood. But Alice, if we can elevate her to a panelist, that would be great. And while she's being elevated, you're requesting a relief for a conditional use. And can you specify specifically what that uses? So there's two uses here. One is for a social club. Social club, okay, and the other. That's the one in the basement and then for a pool hall. That's the thing. Okay, so you're asking for relief for the pool hall and the social club. Thank you. Thanks for that clarification. Thank you. Okay, so Alice, is that you are owner been elevated? It's Alicia. Is Alice? Alice. No, she's not even attending. She's not even being... No, we can hear you. There she is. She's not being. Can you hear me now? Yes. There's that version. You have a specific question for the owners. My question is, again, I'm not doubting what Chinese business is saying. But Alice, in terms of you heard most of the questioning towards who obviously people are comfortable that gambling may not occur. And we understand this up to the tenants that you would sign. But is that your intention that there will be no gambling a lot? That is my intention. And also, you know, while it was operating, if we shut it down because we knew that it wasn't allowed while it was operating, my husband and I were very careful. You know, we visited the site, the business often during operating hours. And we did witness that all the people who went down there, they were seniors. You know, without talking about, you know, 18-year-olds or younger people. But these are all seniors. And most of them, you know, they may be home watching grandchildren. So they may be down there just socializing for a couple of hours, but the kids spend school, you know, as sort of a situation. Thank you. Any other questions? I mean, I can just make a comment to my colleagues, which is the board can impose a sunset provision. And, you know, in regards to the condition of use, setting a duration, just to, you know, I think the most important thing is to see if the use is going to impact the community. And so, you know, whether one is gambler or not, that's being regulated by a different commission. That's really not in front of us to decide. You know, we decide on land use. So that's my only comment. Thank you. So let's go to public testimony. Well, Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Eva Jones representing the members office of the neighbor and services for going 25 to 27 Ed and Rose Street office to first with the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including an up-butter's meeting held on 7 7 25. That was well attended by community members. The feedback from this meeting was significant concern about trash, loitering, and significant opposition to possible gambling concerns that could arise. Additionally, we received a letter and opposition from the Chinatown Main Street Association, expressing many of the same concerns with the focus on trash disposal and the 2 a.m. closing time and the type of proposal in the residential area, although attorney's bits did outline that the closing hours were amended. The proposal was also reviewed by the Chinatown Neighborhood Council on 7 21 25 and the Chinatown Residence Association on 8 6 25. Both of the associations expressed opposition to the proposal and have submitted letters and opposition citing many of the same concerns, including the ongoing issues with gambling and the neighborhood and the 2 a.m. closing, disturbing the resident of an already busy Ed and Rose Street. At this time, the mayor's office to neighbor and services differs from the boards judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next, without a millisa. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, honorable Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Melissa Lowe and I would be speaking on behalf of Councillor Flynn. Councillor Flynn would like to go on record and strong opposition due to feedback from the Chinatown Residence Association. Chinatown Neighborhood Council, as well as Chinatown Main Street, who have submitted letters of opposition regarding this proposal based on persistent concerns regarding potential for gambling issues and activities in Chinatown. Gambling addition has been a disorder that has long plagued our immigrant communities. While there has been harm reduction efforts in recent years to address this long-standing concern, residents believe that opening up yet a similar establishment would further bring harm to those struggling. Presidents on city resources and public safety were also highlighted when it comes to issues surrounding late-night hours of operation such as violence and noise disturbances impacting the quality of life for the Chinatown community. While the kind of these reasons and others, Councillor Flynn remains strongly opposed at this time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. We have another person. Steve? Good afternoon, everyone. Can everyone hear me? Okay. Yes, sir. My name is Steve and Lowe. I'm a lieutenant with Boston Police Department based on headquarters. Prior to that, I spent 10 years of my supervisor experience in downtown under District A1. I'm not here to support or oppose, but I am here to give the facts that I know of this location. So back on, I'm not sure if people were back on November 29th or 2024. We did receive a 911 call regarding a person with a firearm. When I was arrived on scene, they talked to the victim who said that they were inside the pool hall at that time and an altercation ensued where one of the persons displayed a firearm. And left, prior to police arrival, officers did enter the location and did observe what they believed to be the pool halls and other gambling going on. And they wrote a report and they forwarded that to our licensing division. And then on, go ahead. Fast forward to July 30th of this year. Sergeant Detective William Gallagher from our licensing division did the student investigation and I also had a chance to talk to him as well as instructional services where they based on their observation. They did observe what they believed to be illegal gambling on the premise. And I believe and also did talk to, I forget which of the leads that they talked to, but there was an admission that there was some gig gambling going on. So based on that, I do have concerns about how things would proceed moving forward at this location if they were allowed to be granted their permit to go ahead and have the pool hall and the social club. I strongly believe based on experience and the 10 years I spent down in Chinatown as a police officer with that, there are better and more productive ways to engage our seniors as opposed to a large-jong social club or pool hall. So based on those facts, the reports and talking to the investigators involved, I'm just going to present that information to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to turn that into additional comments. Okay. The applicant wants to respond to the concerns that works for us. Yes, great. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'm not aware, this is the first time I'm aware of any sort of legal gambling that was occurring again. What the officer spoke about is when that's when it first became aware that the uses weren't in fact allowed uses on the property itself. Hence those businesses were shut down at that point in time. And the reason why we're here today is seeking where we're seeking those legalized those existing uses now for the conditional use permits. And again, a lot of the stuff is implying that gambling could be associated with it again that gambling is not a part of this application that we have here today. So with that being said, I'm going to turn it back over to you, Madam Chair. Other questions from the board? I'm hearing none. Is there a motion? I'll perform motion of denial to the strong committee opposition and some of the historical issues with this property. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. The novel. Yes. Due to again the concerns of a community opposition for this project. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pinagio. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone. Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone as well. Happy Thanksgiving. I believe in you. That's a skill in vote. Happy Thanksgiving. Bye-bye. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.