 Good morning. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, September 13th, 2016 is now underway. For the record, just to inform everybody in accordance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed. Please have your cell phones off so we can listen to what's happening up at the table. If you have conversations, please take them outside of the room. It is very difficult for us to hear, as you may already know. And finally, we want to hear what you have to say. If you are either in support or in opposition, please put your name and address on the record. If somebody else has already stated your concern, please again just put your name and address on the record. We're looking for new information from every speaker so that it can inform our decisions. I know a lot of you will have gone through community processes to let you know that the opinions from the BRA and from the community are advisory to this Board. Mr. Galvin. I'm calling the 930 extensions. BZC 3305. Change the legal occupancy from 19 apartments to 20 apartments and renovate. The violations are Article 57, 577-9 Florida area, ratio excessive, usable open space, lot area for the new proposed dwelling insufficient. Now, this is in reference to 360 West Second Street War at 6. So please come and put your name and address on the record. Doug Steffen, 93F Street. Tell us why you're here before us today. I got BRA approval for the transformation of the commercial space into a residence and I let the decision expire this summer. So I am here at requesting an extension on the decision. May I have, and this is, may I have a motion please? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? And this is for one year. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Calling BZC 32846 425-435, Malena Caz Boulevard. This is a request for an extension. So Mr. Fees, please tell us what triggered this request. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joseph Feester from the Law firm of McKenzie and Associates, 183 State Street, Boston. What triggered this request is that my client is still engaged in the article 80 process. As you may have read in the papers and activities are going on in community during 2015 and early part of 2016, there was much discussion around living wages and other issues which impact our ability to go before the BRA for some 10 months. So we were granted an extension until 2015, September of 2015, and now with the financing, and we're still not, my client is still not completed to be an article 80 process before the BRA. We asked this board's indulgence to grant a further extension of one year. Mr. Fees, so this is an amendment to the article 80 process? Not really an amendment back in October or August of 2015 to BRA extended the time frame at which the article 80 process would occur. And then in the early part of 2016, we went through the process and so we're still in the throes of it and needed further extension in order to complete the process. I see, so you want to parallel the extension from the BRA. May I have a motion to extend one year? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Board following next. This is for Board Final, Alberta calling VOA388021335 to 337 West Second Street. Name an address for the record please. Doug Steffenoff, 93F Street. I'd like to request from the board to change the language and the decision that reads seven roof decks to eight roof decks. At the time I originally had this permitted only seven of the eight people who live on the top floor, wanted roof decks, one unit can resold, the new person wants to do the same thing in concert with its neighbors. So the decision and the drawings before us showed seven roof decks? Yeah, the decision states seven roof decks. And the drawings that we approved had seven roof decks. I'm submitting a new set to show eight and I'd like to change the count to eight on the decision as no further violations are created. What is access to the roof? There are two existing stair headhouses and just for your information I have received relief from the architectural access board on this case. All the roof decks are private use. And so the new deck is deck 24. Yeah, the one that circled. Why wasn't in the initial drawings? The people who lived below didn't want one. They had since sold and the new owners would like to be part of this group condo decision or construction. Are we going to start seeing more piecemeal extensions to our provals? No, ma'am. I mean this is the odd case. I do what the clients ask and can't predict. When was the surgery before the board? I have October 7th, 2014. I have a copy here if you wish. Is it not the construction? No, it's coupled with a re-roofing project. No construction started. But it has gone through community review and BRA review. It has gone through four additional reports. No, four the seven. Not the eighth. And can you enlighten us as to what the review was in terms of the acceptance by the community? There wasn't any issues with the neighbors working with the BRA. We're pulling the decks back five feet. The railings are metal, black metal. They're not visible from the street. It's a fairly tall building. Can you do this as a fright? Can you do this as a fright? Can you add the deck as a fright? It's actually the same since neighborhood district is a restricted roof deck district. Therefore, that's why I did the original process. It's conditional. You know, I'm concerned about falling. And it's in terms of what my father is really to deal with small administrative issues. And while this in itself is not a big deal, I'm in trouble by constant expansion. I mean, it was suggested that bring it to you first as this avenue. I mean, I'm welcome. I'll bring it back to the community. I want to make a motion. In fact, neither the question is important. Okay. May I have a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling in extreme cases. Calling BGC 30745. 583 to 583 B. Ashmont Street. The companion case BGC 307 or 6585 to 585 B. Ashmont Street. And BGC 30747 587 to 587 B. Ashmont Street. Name and address for the record, please. I'm going to try it 1005 to a chester avenue to a chest of Massachusetts. With me is Rich Servo and Tim Russell is the architect. Again, we hear on Final Lobbeter, but I'll tell you why we think this is a provocation Final Lobbeter. First, tell us what was proposed and tell us what you are now requesting. The original proposal was to build three groups of three unit buildings. There was a three unit building along Ashmont Street. There was another three unit building, townhouses behind that, and another three unit building behind that. This is an extraordinarily deep, deep. Yes, I do remember this. Yes. And what happened is that two things happened that delayed it. One was that was litigation, which is unavoidable. The neighbor filed a suit. It was kind of positive result that it was a lawsuit to go ahead. But then when we went for BRA Design Review, the BRA suggested doing two groups of buildings with four units in the front building and five units in the rear building. So we went back to the community. We have a letter from the Pope's Hill, which I've given in. Pope's Hill Student Association supported the change. We also brought the plans into the building department. The growth of instruments in the Fitzgerald thing was submitted to the plans examiner who said no new violations were created by the alteration from three groups of three to one four and one five. In fact, the number units are the same, the number of bedrooms are the same, the number of bathrooms are the same. The only difference is, obviously, two instead of three. And the square footage is slightly reduced from 16,000, 16,000, 38,000, 18,000, 18,000. So the average sawed units also on the ice size unit with 1,600 square foot range. But these changes were at the request. And is one of this building code violation? There are no building code violations that we know of. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? There's a difference between this case and the previous one. And it is as follows that, again, the purpose of the final law of it was to allow for adjustments without increase in anything. In fact, as a decrease because physically the number of buildings are decreased square footage is slightly decreased. The number of bedrooms more importantly is constant as an increase. You have a motion, please? Motion can be granted over a different question. And that's the continued VRA design review. Let's continue to be out inside the second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case is all companion case to this one. Calling BCC33336, 86 Liverpool Street, BCC337, 90 Liverpool Street, BCC33389, 94 Liverpool Street, BCC33389, 98 Liverpool Street, BCC33340106 Liverpool Street, BCC333141, 90, 88 Liverpool Street, BCC33340106 Liverpool Street, BCC333141, 102 Liverpool Street, BCC333134, 84 Liverpool Street, BCC333138 Liverpool Street, BCC333344, 92 Liverpool Street, BCC333134, BCC33345104 Liverpool Street, BCC33336100 Liverpool Street, BCC3333796 Liverpool Street, BCC33339, 80 Liverpool Street, BCC3333082 Liverpool Street, BCC333351, 78 Liverpool Street, name and address for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair and Members of the Board, Jeff Drago, 15 Broad Street of Drago and Tuscano on the attorney for the applicant, the neighbourhood of the affordable housing. I have Phil Giffey from NOAA and I also have Bob Wagner who is the architect on the project on my left. We are here before Board Final Abedder seeking a project modification. This was approved back in 2014 as an affordable housing project in East Boston. It involves two rental buildings at 99-101 border street and also on a separate parcel involved at the time, 15 separate townhouses from 78 to 106 border street. They were never subdivided. The plan was to subdivid them as individual lots from a financing standpoint that cost for separate water mains on each project was difficult to come through with. This is a tax credit project. In meeting with Boston Water and sewer, they also suggested the proposed system would be much easier for the project as well. In working with ISD and the plan's examiner, what we are proposing is to switch from individual fee simple townhouses to one condominium building with townhouse units in each. They would still be sold as a condo development with one water main entrance to the entire building. And the number of units, the unit sizes, parking, everything is the same. Everything is the same. We are shifting over slightly. It creates no new violation at all for the project. May I have a motion, please? I'll show you a grand three. Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second. Good luck. Can we take a moment and just go to the minutes approval of minutes, please? Over. We all received a copy of the minutes for August 23, 2016. All those in favor? Any opposed? I'm sorry. What is it again? I'm not in favor of format. The handwritten format? Yes. That's duly recorded. There's a second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm going to go right to the 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930, please? Address, join. For the record calling BOA 613-855-377, West First Street. Name an address for the record, please. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney for Business Address, 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair and members, this is an article 80 project, despite the fact that it's a 9 unit project. It's an article 80 small project based upon Square Footage. It was originally believed that this was going to be on the VRA's agenda for August. It was not. It is scheduled to be voted by the VRA this Thursday. Therefore, I would seek a deferral, a short deferral to allow the VRA to make a recommendation to this board and to approve the project, a pursuant to its article 80 jurisdiction. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion for deferral. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. We have a date of September 27th at 1130. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Hearing them, we'll call the first case. Calling B.O.A. 585-386-318 Princeton Street. This is to extend finish work into part of the basement and add one room for unit 1 and add a roof deck to unit 3. The violation of article 53 section 9, Clody A ratio is excessive and article 53 section 52, roof structure restrictions. Name and address for the record plate. Pincollo,EREGO, Detective Palmerston, Independent 2018 Senate, keyboards, finance, philanthropist. Finley, arab County office filiper. is going to be? The basement is going to be used for a storage and recreational area. There is also a bathroom there. And that is the portion that will be occupied by the first floor extended living space where this to be approved. The rest of the basement is used for mechanical space, the rear half. The front half is part of this unit 101. Tell us about the roof structure. The roof structure is set back from Princeton Street by about 10 feet and from the sides about 3 feet and then 7 feet. The roof deck itself is 27 feet by 11 feet. And what is the access to the roof deck? It would be through a hatch, a barrel type hatch up to the roof. An access would be to all units? No, only for the top floor unit. What were the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Drone her adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Mr. Mourning, I'm Chair. Members of the board, Claudia Correa from the Mayor's Office on Abelist Services. We would like to go and record in support. There wasn't any opposition during the about as meeting. Thank you. Come on. Members of the board, Salvatore Lomantino, City of Cancellar, representing East Boston. We would like to go and record in support. This is the owner who lives in that building. I'm going to split his family. So please allow him to support. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Going BOA 602-277-106 Webster Street. This is the project is to demolish the existing structure and erect a new eight unit residential building with eight pots and spaces. The violation is Article 53 Section 8. Multi-family dwelling is a forbidden use. Article 53 Section 56, Obstreet parking, Insufficient Obstreet parking, Article 53 Section 57.2. Informity would exist in building alignment. Article 53 Section 9, additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, Flood air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Building height is excessive. Article 53, Usable open spaces insufficient. Article 53, Side Yad is insufficient. Due to balcony, onside and roof line. And Article 53 Section 9, Ray Yad is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Jeff Drego, 15 Broad Street Drego in Tuscano. On the attorney for the applicant, Mr. Perez on my right. And also here with RCA, the architect on the project James Christopher. We're seeking zoning relief to demolish an existing building, outdated building, structurally and sound building at 106 Webster Street. And to erect a residential condominium building with eight units and eight parking spaces on site. What's the zoning in this district? It's a 3F 2000. And what was the building that's proposed to come down? It was a one family, very small one family really didn't fit into the surrounding area. And what is the square footage of the law? The law is 5,625 square feet. It was one of the larger lots in the neighborhood. The layout of the building, it's a faulty foot building with first, second, third and fourth floor use. There would be a studio unit on the first floor and a two bedroom on the first floor as well. On the second through the fourth floors, it would be three bedroom, two bath units. And the client who also lives in the area would be moving in one of the top floor units. The two top floor units have two exclusive roof decks on the top of the building. We also went to great efforts in working with the Jeffrey's Point Neighborhood Association on design changes and also to add as much decking for open space and the rare of the building. We do have a letter from the JPNA of support as well as 14 direct to butter supports. I know there's also a butter here to testify and support as well. I can pause and answer any questions. Yes, please. Since this is new construction, what's the parking requirement in this district? So it would be 14 parking spaces, so it's 1.75. Have you checked out any options to increase the number of parking spaces? We have it. The community was actually very satisfied that it was one for one because that's more than most. However, we are a very short two minute walking distance to Maverick Square, T Station as well. It's right at the corner. And tell us the number of bedrooms. So, on the first floor unit one is just a studio unit at 133. 33 square foot unit. Unit two is 876 square feet. That's a two bedroom. The other units three and four are 1370 and 1334. Both three bedroom units. Unit five and six. Both three bedrooms. 1370, 1334. And units seven and eight. 1415, 1370. Both three bedrooms. Five and six also three bedrooms. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? Drawings are adequate. Any questions for the board? Yes Madam Chair. I see that you have a challenge, physical challenge parking space is the first floor of going to be appointed for a physical challenge. Accessible. That that will be accessible. It's designated and will be group one compatible, but it's it's upgrading the access from the rear. And there's roof decks. There's two exclusive roof decks, correct? And the access. Headhouse. So headhouse. Okay. Why was the choice to do really large enough for? It's just large enough for the stairs. It's a little bigger on the head. Yeah, it's it's four and a half, yeah, four and a half feet wide. By probably about 12 feet to allow for the stairs to come up and and adore. The intent there was that we feel that that's about a condition that a hatch and the name is didn't seem to have kept to it. So we thought it was a good solution. And and unit one is 433 square feet. Correct. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the World Classical and the mayor of South-Eastern neighborhood services. We would like to go and record his support. They went through an extensive community process. The other as many as was very well attended. Also, they made changes on the designs for the Jeffers Point neighborhood association, which were in support. In regards to parking, this is actually a very bike friendly area. And even some of the residents, they were there, they were very satisfied with the parking options. Or that special reason we actually like to go record his support. This proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, members of the boys, Salvatore Loughbittino, City Councilor representing East Washington. I'm very familiar with this property and remember that friends lived there at one time. It was a big, possible land. Like the mayor's office says, they had a sense of community process in that neighborhood. The neighborhood group. And I'd like to go and record his support. Thank you. Hi, my name is Alda. I'm a director of the property from that property and I support this project. Thank you. Lee J. Gamel, I'm from the neighborhood. I lived in the building. I still rent the garage space there. And I think it'll be quite an enhancement to the piece of property. Ms. Carl Rizzle, Director of the Butter, 108 Webster Street for support to the project. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? We have a motion place. Motion for approval continued VRE design. Second. All those in favor? Bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Calling BOA 606896, 34 Mead Street. It was a companion case, BOA 60690034 Rhea Mead Street. This is Chair. I'm Mr. Moore. I'm Mr. Schmecht. My name is Dr. Schmecht. The purpose is to subdivide 34 Mead Street, the site of the existing three family dwelling and containing 4,447 square feet into two lots. Lot 1, number 34 Mead Street to contain 1,914 square feet. Change of occupancy of building on Lot 1 to a two family dwelling. Lot 2, number 34 R Mead Street to contain 2,533 square feet. Change of building of Lot 2 to a single family dwelling. The existing firewall separation between buildings, this application for 34 Mead Street, Lot 1. There was no work to be done. Violations, Article 62, Section 8. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 62, Section 8, Floody, Eratio is excessive. Article 62, Section 8, Usable Open Spaces in Suffrage and Article 62, Section 8, Rhea is in sufficient. For 34, Rhea is the same purpose with two violations, Article 62, Section 30. Performing with an existing building alignment. And Article 62, Section 8, Lot fronted as in sufficient. Name and address to the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. This is the board. My name is George Moran, same in attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by my associate attorney Patrick Mahoney. Madam Chair, members, this is a straightforward, simple subdivision of land. There was no work to be done as noted in the descriptions right into the record from the refusal letters. The site is 34 and 34 Rhea Mead Street in Charlestown. 34 Mead Street consists of a two-family dwelling that was constructed to the front of an attach to an existing single-family dwelling at 34 Rhea Mead Street. Front building was permitted sometime around 1997. So this is a non-traditional three-family dwelling. It's not vertically stacked. It's rather two units in front of one to the rear. The buildings are connected by an existing firewall. So it's completely separate buildings and separate systems that happen to be on the same lot. My clients own the three-family dwelling, Claire Smith and for a son, John Campbell. My client who is in the room here. The intention behind this is to do nothing except to be able to provide for and allow for separate ownership of the single-family dwelling in the rear. So the my client will be able to continue to enjoy independent living for the rest of his life without having to be part of a condominium association. The only other solution would have been to convert this to a three-unit condo, but my client would like to simply own the single-family and be simple. And those parking going to work? There is a paved parking on each side. My client actually is able to, and my client has a handicap ban and there's an HP space directly in front of the building. There also paved driveways on either side of the building at 34, the front building. The rear building will continue to maintain a driveway in the parking area, as I said, even though there is an HP space in front of the building. So the division would be straight across the lock line. It's not going to be create a flag-laught or something like that. The existing two-family dwelling would be this square. And then there is a driveway leading to the existing single-family to the rear. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Arlock? I have some heavy work. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services on behalf of Chris Green. We'd like to go on record in strong support. There wasn't a butters meeting held. Everyone in attendance was in support, and we have received numerous calls in support of this as well. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, to be in the seat of the Council's panel on the first floor. I agenda the other members to be in support of the decision. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with no, just motion to approve. Yep. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling BOA 622803. 14 to 16. Dirt Street. This is to include takeout to an existing restaurant, removing proviso. Violation, dodicle 7. Section 4. Other protectional conditions to the petitioner only. Name an address for the record, please. On Puginati 16, Dirt Street. That is what's being proposed. I'm here to lift the proviso of the previous owner's takeout license and transfer it to my new restaurant. And what is your restaurant's name? Florida. Florida. Okay. And do you have previous experience with takeout? Yes. And do you have another restaurant in Wakefield, Mass? Well, it's awesome. We have different requirements. So please make sure you're aware of them. Okay. Any questions from the board? Ms. Buzani, how are the plans looking? Drawing's a record. Does anybody here speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services on behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record and support with the condition that the applicant appeared before the Beacon Health Civic Association's zoning and licensing committee. There was some confusion about getting in touch with the civic association, but the applicant has expressed a willingness to appear before them. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? We have a motion, please. Thank you to the crew with the boards. You shall take a minute. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Can you make sure that you talk to Jacob and make sure you understand what the take-out our requirements are? Yes. And of course you're going to be meeting with the Beacon Health. Okay. So motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling BOA 614-857-31 Milford Street. This is a change opportunity from a three-family to a single-family. It's a complete gut renovation with new layout work and include roof deck. In place of the red deck. The violation is Article 32, Section 9, G-Cod Enforcement, and Article 64, Section 34, Restricted Roof Structures. May I have just another record, please? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse is the address of 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I represent the homeowners, the design family for this project. So this is two parts to violations, G-Cod. And the roof deck, please. Christian, go and record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Christian, Simonelli, Groundwater Trust. We have the approval letter from Warner and Suhr in the applicant, as it points. We need a copy. We don't have a copy of it. I have that as well. Thank you. Please tell us about the roof deck. The roof deck is a small roof deck not visible from the public way. In fact, South and Landmarks has already issued an administrative determination that they would not have jurisdiction over it. The family that is doing this renovation project has lived in one of the units in the building for the past 12 years and over the past five years has acquired the other two units in the building. So they're doing a complete gut renovation of the entire four-story row house to convert it to a single family residence, which they will occupy at the conclusion of the project. And how large is that roof deck? 150 square feet. Can we have an access via hatch? Yes. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? I also ask some letters of support from the bothers I'd like to submit. Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord and support. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. John, our work from Councillor Bill Linney-Han's office would like to go unregard and support. Thank you. Does anybody here in opposition? Your name and address, please? Morning, Brad Cain, 29 Millford Street. We oppose the plan based on the portion of the roof deck. We've lived there 22 years. We don't believe that the roof deck that had been there previously had ever been properly approved. It, in fact, was built out of scrap wood that had been scavenged from shutters, taken off of our building. We had problems with the previous owner and up the decise for the previous owner who used the roof deck and roof tomatoes and irrigated his tomatoes with a watering hose and cause. So the question is going forward. Are you opposed to the roof deck? The 150 square feet. The reason for that is because, like a lot of residents of Boston last year, we had problems with snow and ice to build up on our roofs. And we think that a larger roof deck is going to cause essentially a snow break and cause greater accumulation, which was clearly a problem for all of us last year. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Anybody else in opposition? May I have a move? Again, another, Joe Rondinelli, another owner of 29 Millford Street Unit 1. I also am opposed to that change. And you're both from 29? Yes, we are. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? All of those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Falling BOA 591640, 91 Wesslyn Avenue. This is a fit up in existing basement areas for workout room for the residents only. Violations, article 66, section 9, access to floor 8 ratio. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. My name is Andy Dean. I'm an attorney at Mint Sleven representing the appellant at one financial center. My name is Antony Nodinot, not only architect, 38 Chapman Street, Canton, Massachusetts. I am Vickit Tango, the Director of Operations for four to cover these at 65 Wesslyn Street and Cambridge. I'm Dan Starrer, chief financial officer for four to cover these at 65 Wesslyn Street and Cambridge. Hello, so it's me, proposed? Sure. We're proposing a residence only fitness room in the basement of an existing apartment building. It's been there for quite a period of time. Our clients have owned the property since 1994. And we believe at one point it might have been used as a fitness room back in the 80s or early 90s. We haven't used it as such. And so we filed for an application. It was denied based on an FAR exceedance. The building is already in exceedance of FAR given the age of the building. There's a 4.0 limitation, or at 4.77 existing as it stands today. The fitness room would be an increase. It would be 181854 square feet, which would result in a 0.08 increase of FAR or 1.67%. We have almost 60 residents in support of this. It's something that our client is keen on providing this service to its existing residents and to allow for residents during inclement weather to have a workout facility on site. What is in that space now? It's an existing basement that's used for storage. It's just going to be a passive recreation space. In other words, it would be just there. It's not going to be run by some other. Correct. Correct. How do the clients miss the design? Drawing is a rhetoric. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record and support. This is a minor interior change to an existing residential building. And we have heard no concerns from the community. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kate Bell. On behalf of City Councilor Josh Zaykham. We'd also like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? We have a motion, please. Passing to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Great. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-567105, 87 West C-Dustry. There's also a building code B-O-A-567104, 87 West C-Dustry. This is to change our entry from 13 apartments to 12 apartments. The office for mental health therapy office. The work is in the basement in unit 87A. Violations, Ida Galate, section 7. The use is for mental health therapy office. On the building code. This is 520, the state building code, chapter 802, modification to 521CM on chapter 3. Change the use of a building changes from a private use to one that is open and used by the public. Any access to the work is performed. Any access to the work is performed. Any access to the work is performed. Any access to the work is performed. Name and address. For the record, please. Who are the applicants? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I see. And you are the person. And put your name and address on the record, please. Both of you. My name is Lauren Scott. And I reside at 48 Grafton Street. Sorry. I reside at 48 Grafton Street. Okay. My name is Nathaniel Scott. I reside at 48 Grafton Street in Quincy. Okay. So please. So generally, when we have a zoning violation and a building code violation, we would like you to address the building code violation first. So there must be an accessible entrance to the building. Is that being proposed or not? No external changes are being proposed to the building. There is a handicap accessible entrance or an accessible entrance. There would be a way for a handicap person to access the building through the rear entrance of the building. Mr. Pazani, is that an adequate response? Well, how do you get to the rear of the building? There is a smooth entrance way through the, there are no stairs to it. And then it comes through what is the, the closet of the, the storage entrance of the apartment. There are two entrances, the apartment. Sounds like it's a pretty mean means of accessibility. At this point in time, we have not elected to take any clients that are in need of that. It is an eventuality. I understand that, but it's not up to you to elect. Absolutely, yeah. Absolutely, we're not saying that is. Just that there would be the option for that if somebody did need to avail themselves of handicap accessible entrance. This needs, I'm going to make a motion to in fact deny the building code relief requested simply because there has not been an adequate mitigation plan submitted. May I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay, now please can you talk about the office and they tell us what the, what the zoning is for this district. So currently the building is owned residential only as of 1978. And you're proposing to put in a mental health therapy office? Yes. Please, please, please forthcoming and tell us what you're proposing. So ultimately what occurred is it was, we were mistaken of the zoning to begin with. And so we have had our practices in there. It was only by happenstance that we found out to be honest that the zoning was inaccurate. And so thus at that point we proceeded with, with, with, correct. And how long has this been in operation? A year and a half. January of 2015. Yes. This is January 15. Okay. And how many clients do you see there? I see up to 20 a week. Up to 20 and what are the hours of operation? From, they've just changed because I'm just off maternity leave but they are from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. Okay. And this is a forbidden use because this is a residential sector. Yes. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The drawings are basically showed as an apartment. You have a living room. The bedroom is that correct? That is the layout of the apartment. Yes. And so I assume one of those rooms is an office or a, like, both offices or... There is a, so there are two separate rooms. The therapy practice takes place in the, in the outer room. Yes. The living room. And then the second is an office for Mike Fienton. Is this unit used residential use prior to your occupying? Yes. You will. And what we're coming to before, to you guys, excuse me, G. And this is why you're coming correct? Yes. So, it will go directly back to just residential again. So my mother is kind enough to have allowed us this very sweetheart deal on her part. And so it is... So she's owned the building for the past 35 years. This is the first and only time that she's allowed this. And she can talk on her behalf. But it's a very strict variance that we're asking for. Okay. So the way that the provisors have been written up, if possible, to be attached to the variance, that the use is granted to this petitioner for these uses only. These uses are for the named users only and may not be transferred or delegated to others. Upon termination of these uses by the named users, the subject premises shall revert to residential use only. These uses shall be confined to the interior of the subject premises and shall not in any manner affect any abutting property. We presented these to the Beacon Hill Civic Association and we asked that if there's any way to attach them to the variance that they'd be done. We are not seeking a permanent change or my mother is not seeking a permanent change just for the duration of our office. A quick comment. Can you please speak up? I'm just having a hard time hearing today. The 87 years old, the 2nd and 3rd of exploration, the Department has been so commercial and residential. Okay. Okay. We've only had 35 years. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record and support with the provisos suggested by the applicant that there be a sunset provision upon which the office revert back to residential use. There wasn't a butters meeting on this proposal and also a Beacon Hill Civic Association meeting at old meetings. There were neighbors in support and in opposition to this proposal. Many neighbors said that they the office was such such little impact that they didn't realize it existed until these meetings occurred. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Please stand up. Put your name and address on the record. And as I had said before, please don't repeat what somebody else has said. Give us some new information. Please get started. My name is Linda Jordan Dow and I've lived on at 15 Lindall Place near the proponents for since 1976. We have worked very hard on the hill to retain the residential quality of Beacon Hill and we are opposed to this proposal. There are also three physical three massage therapy offices on Beacon Hill in the commercial districts to one child street and one on Muriel Street. We think that this that that we're well served as far as the massage therapy is concerned and we are concerned about a setting a precedent of residential units going commercial. Can you please clarify for us is there massage therapy also going on in this in this unit? I'm asking the person at the podium. There is the massage therapy currently going on in this unit as the gentleman has explained. Thank you. Anybody else in opposition? Tom Clements, Zoning and Licensing Committee of the Beacon Hill Civic Association. The applicant appeared before us and there was significant neighbor opposition to the proposal. We recognize that they've operated there for over a year with not a major impact but given the priority of preserving affordable housing, Beacon Hill, this takes the unit off the market and given the concerns of the neighbors, the Civic Association, to oppose the request relief. We submitted a letter to that effect. If it's the board's pleasure to grant the relief, it would certainly ask that the sunset provision be included. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, ladies and gentlemen, put your name and address on the record. Please do it. My name is Judith Avery. I live three doors down from 87 West Cedar. These folks live in another part of the state. I'm at 93 West Cedar Streets since 1974. And please tell us the basis of your opposition. My block was full of owner occupants way back. Now they've become rental units and now the next transition is to commercial units because we're close to Charles Circle. This sets a terrible precedent. The applicant seems to think she can change the zoning issues by saying. Please, please, excuse me, just talk to the merits of the case, okay? Thank you. Okay. I'm Neri Gyer from 66 Phillips Street. This is strictly a zoning issue. As my neighbors have said, no one is here to hurt Mrs. Holt or her family, but we have always consistently rejected any commercial use in this residential area to start such a precedent regardless of what the conditions may be would really threaten the character of the neighborhoods. So we're asking that you oppose this variance. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion for denial. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So please do the right thing and remedy the situation. Calling BOA 586, 63641, Yakiway. This is to continue the use of the property as a fee paid parking for 75 vehicles and remove the provisor past the existing date of 910-16 in extent until 910-2020. Violation's article 7, Section 4, other protection other protectional conditions. May I have an address for the record, please? I'm hired by our President Power and the Security, 100th Summer Street. Joining me is my colleague, Brenna Tumey, and to my left is Alicia Rourke. We've given Mr. Pazani a very simple plan for this parking lot. Alicia and her family have been operating this lot for a long, long time. I think all of us know where Yakiway is. It's right across the street from Fenway Park. And we have a letter of support from the Red Sox, who are the largest property owner, other than the folks who own this property, twins and surprises. Fenway is a very different place than it was when I first came before this board 20-25 years ago with Alicia's dad. Not a lot of parking lots left. This one remains because twins and surprises have decided not to sell its real estate. And someday they will. Those meetings none of us are probably going to be invited to. So in 75 spaces, during the day they are used as parking for Red Sox employees so that they are not competing with other people for spaces. And then when the Red Sox have a game, it's used in the evening or weekend or whatever for patrons of the ballpark. We met with the Fenway Civic Association. It was a very, very friendly and positive meeting. We have the letter of support for the Red Sox. We're looking for an extension. We understand public policy does not want this to be forever. We also would hope that the design review is necessary. There was a confusion the last time we were here and we had to go get the tapes and listen. There is nothing being done. We are just going to keep doing what's been going on for 20-25 years at this location. And we would hope these folks can stay in business. As long as twins want to keep the parking lot. I think the last time Mr. Dacarot was screening and buffering up that property. How are the plans Mr. Bazzani? Drawing the right way. Any questions from the board? Any other requesting for a four-year extension? That would be great if we could get four. That is separately longer than what those board grants. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record in support of extending the license. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? A question for the council. What was the extension last time? I think it was three years last time. I'll make a motion for a three-year extension. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. I've set for another three years. Good luck. Calling BOA 601-932-54P Montstreet. This is renovations to the third floor. Construction of a new roof deck. Installation of a new roof hatch and a stair access to the roof. Violations article 63 section 8, Rayaat is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Wilkie Miller, 28 State Street, here in Boston. With me to my left is the property owner Sarah Hurley from 54P Montstreet, here in Boston. This Hurley and her husband are long-time owners of 54P Mont. This is a single family dwelling in the Bay Village. They are proposing to make renovations to their third floor, including the construction of a new roof deck. Approximately 200 square feet, along with a new roof hatch and stair access. The roof deck is not visible from any public way. The proposal is a substantial conformance with the Rayaat except that requirement. It is a minimum variance necessary to accomplish the purpose. They have engaged my foe in positive community process, including the bottom meeting and a letter of support, which was supplied today from the Bay Village Neighborhood Association. The violation is the Rayaat violation, and that's just pre-existing because of the building. Okay, how are the plans from Mr. Bazzani? Drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Sam Chambers, we'd like to go on record and strong support. The applicant is a pillar of the community and has gone above and beyond in the community process. There are no objections from the abutters and the neighborhood is supportive as well. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, John. I'll work from Councillor Bill Winnahe in his office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Does anybody here in opposition? Motion, please. Motion for approval. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Calling B08615748291 Newbury Street. Purpose is to change oxygen from five apartments in two stores to five apartments, one store and one juice bar. Make out use. The juice bar will have ten seats, known as Mother Juice. Violation, toticolate. Section seven. The user restaurant, and 36A is conditional. Inotical age, section seven. Use of a restaurant. 37 is conditional. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Ellen Fitzgerald. I'm an owner of my address. Seven Maxwell is green, Somerville. Good morning. I'm Laura Baldini. I'm another owner. I'm a live at two Avery Street, department 3rd, G. and Boston. Please tell us what you're proposing. Yes, so we're seeking relief from the zoning board for use at 291 Newbury Street as a restaurant with takeout for a juice bar. We'll have juices, salads, smoothies. And is it that the, okay? How are the plans for the Smithsonian? Drawings are adequate. Do you have experience with takeout in the city of Boston? We do. We currently have a location in the Boston public market. And we also have a location that we've operated for two years in Cambridge that's similar operations. Okay. Is this existing juice bar that you want to add takeout? I didn't knew. It's a new juice bar. It was previously a hair salon. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Jacob Wessel, we'd like to go on record and support. Mother juice is a small business with another successful location in Boston and will fit in well to the retail mix on Newbury Street. They have the support of the neighborhood association of the back bay and the back bay association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, LALF from the association of back bay. We're not in opposition to this. That's a juice and salad bar. There's no cooking. All the hours are very limited. They've agreed to store the trash indoors. And so we don't see any negative implications from it. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So please remember that the usual takeout languages. Yep. The language, please. Madam Chair, I have a question. Do you press wheatgrass? No. The question next is, do you compost? We do. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's now 1036. I'm going to call are there any cases in the 1030 for deferral or withdrawal for 1030 of the 1030 cases? Address please? Are you deferring? What's the address? We've got to speak up, sir. I can't hear you. It's 123 Cedar Streamrock's barrier. I'm deferring over drawing. I'm not withdrawing. Sorry? Yes. Okay. For the record calling, VLA576286133Cedar Street. Name an address for the record, please. Yes. Good morning. My name is Ramon Tupides and this is my wife Martha. We both occupy the residence at 123Cedar Street. And you're requesting a deferral? You wanted us to hear it at a later date? No, no, no. Okay. So please have a seat and we'll hear you in sequence. Thank you. Okay. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? These are deferrals or withdrawals only? Here in Namagore, back to the 930 cases. Calling BOA606891613E63. This is a demo existing building erecting a new three residential building consisting of two beds, two beds, an exclusive use roof deck for units three and three on-site parking spaces. The violations, Article 14, Section 14-1. Lot size to erect a residential dwelling is insufficient. Article 14, Section 14-2. Lot area for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 14, Section 14-3. Minimum lot width required is insufficient. Article 15, Section 1. Floody air ratio is excessive. Article 17, Section 17-1. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 18, Section 1. Minimum front yard requirement is insufficient. Article 19, Section 2. Side yard with driveways cannot be less than 10 feet in width. In Article 20, Section 1. Minimum rear yard requirement is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Patrick Mahoney. I'm the attorney for this matter. I work at M. Sir Marancy with a business address of 350 West Broadway. Here today represent Sharon and Robert Presidie. I'm the chairman of the board of the board of the board of the board of the board of the board. Morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Patrick Mahoney. I'm the attorney for this matter. I work at M. Sir Marancy with a business address of 350 West Broadway. Here today represent Sharon and Robert Presidie. Lifelong residence is south Boston here. And there what is an existing two family home which they occupy as a single family. And they'll be proposed to demo their current building and erect a three family building. So this is a proposed, tell us, these are a lot of violations. Are any of them because of the existing lock? Because I notice you have a lot of frontage insufficient. Is that just because the way the lot is plated? Yes Madam Chair. So the frontage here required is 50 feet. The existing lock with is 30 feet which is consistent with south Boston area. This is H-150 zoning. Additionally the other violation that would be because of the existing structure is the driveway. The driveway is actually existing. That's a side yard violation. And the rear yard violation I believe is cited because the first 70 feet is right on the lot line which is an exception for side lock. However it adds 10 feet to the rear lot when the rear light doesn't fall within the shallow lot exception. Here we have 125 foot lot in which case it would require a 50 foot rear yard. And so we're asking for a 16 inch variance as it relates to that. So tell us about that driveway? The driveway has been existing and it'll maintain. So what are the dimensions of that driveway? It's 8 1 1 2 feet Madam Chair. Which 10 feet would be required for a side yard driveway. In the rear there's three sparking spaces being added. There is no parking spaces. There was a pool in that location. The three family proposed building is 70 feet in length. Again consistent with the area and neighborhood. The height of the building is approximately 33 1 1 2 feet or rather 34 just under 34 feet. There's three levels above grade, two bedrooms in each of the three units. And the FAR? The FAR is 1.19 which is actually quite low considering this area. I would say there's a recent study done and most of the FAR in this area as it's existing is above two. The third one is the footprint of the proposed building is the existing building. It's a good question. Mr. Ehrlich, how about I don't know. I can't see that the frontage is the same. I do think that the existing building is slightly less than 70 feet. In this case, this building is so simple. If there's not showing up plans, the width of the building is exactly the same as what the existing building is. As the attorney has stated, the gaps has increased. And additionally, there at the second floor and above there's a slight overhang over the parking lane drive. And tell us about the sizes of the units? The units here, Madam Chair, are approximately 1,300 square feet each. There is no open space violation and that's compensated by a small modest roof deck. And access to that roof deck? It's a hatch. And the size of the roof deck? The roof deck is approximately 14 feet by 28 feet. However, slightly more than 10 or 15% of it is taken up by the stairway in the hatch. Okay, and it'll be accessible to just the third unit. That's correct. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Bazzani? Drugs are adequate. And the other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and strong support. We had a very positive of a butters meeting on this in Zappelkin as a pillar of the community that's looking to expand and improve his property. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, John, I'll work from Councillor Bill Linniehan's office. We'd like to echo the statements of the mayor's office and go on record and strong support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have the concept lies, Michael Flarrity. Equally to them, it's the mayor's office council that's going to go on record and strong support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion for approval. The RAs are here. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Your vote is set. Thank you, ma'am. 08608081611 Columbia Road. This is a change used from a convenience room to local retail bike shop and restaurant coffee shop. Rehabilitate the interior and the exterior of the vacant building. The violation of the Article 65 Section 41. Ausfeet parking requirements is insufficient. Article 65 Section 27. Local retail bike shop is a forbidden use in the zoning sub district. Article 65 Section 27. Restaurant use is a forbidden use in the zoning sub district. Name and address. Another record please. Lisa Lewis. Historic Boston Incorporated. Our address is 20. Use District and Roxbury. What's being proposed? The building. Historic Boston is the designated developer. The designated developer for this building, which is currently owned by the city of Boston neighborhood development. It's been vacant since 1977. It's in very poor repair. This looks like it's in an open space sub district. It is. What is it? The building was last used. It was built as a convenience station, a public bathroom. But it hasn't been used. This is just beyond Dudley Street, right? Right. Okay. And it's adjacent to the Dorchester North Bering Ground. And so it's part of the Bering Ground's zoning district. So it's zoned as open space slash cemetery. What are you proposing in that space? We're proposing retail and coffee shop. So the retail use that we currently are contemplating is a bike shop. Have here our prospective tenant. Okay. And tell us about the coffee use. Is that going to be takeout use or? It will, I think, primarily be takeout, but also there will be a small area of seating within the facility. Within the facility. Within the facility. It's a design. How do the plans look? Drawings are excellent. A little bit about the interior. Is it mostly bike shop? Is it 50-50? It's about 50-50. Okay. Is this a bike rental shop or a boat for sale? It repairs and some for sale. Okay. And so everything will be accommodated within the building. There will be no display on the sidewalk or any place else. There is a couple of patios. There's a patio on both sides of the building. And so it's possible that some repair work, some teaching could be done on the side patio of the bike shop. And is there proposed signage? It hasn't been fully designed yet. But the exterior is going to be what's it exactly? Yes. It's going to have to be reviewed by the Landmarks Commission and also the Mass Historical Commission. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Bernard Maylton, Department of Neighborhood Development. There's probably been neglected and vacant for almost 40 years. We're very excited about historic Boston project. And I want to go on record this meaningful support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster from the Council President Michelle Wuzoffice. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, perhaps the concept of live microflarity. Councilor Dillon, record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve the project with a sign review. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with the R.A. Design review. Thank you. The following BOA 605-8137 Baker Coates. The following is existing dwelling and erect a new five-story eight-unit building with garage. Violation.65615. Multi-family dwelling unit is conditional. Article 65, section 16, Laudieria for additional dwelling unit is in sufficient. Article 65, height is excessive. Article 65, Floody Eratio is excessive. Article 65, Fright Yad Requiem is insufficient. And Article 65, section 16, Laudieria Requiem is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. No, I don't have a 20-dial carol flame. I have a 25-matter street. Tim Johnson, architect 190, O'Connor, Ab, Boston. Madam Chair, members of the board. Seven Baker Coates is located at the end of a street, which is a budding that proposed mall expansion in South Bay. We are proposing a five-story eight-unit residential building with an 11-car garage. There will be five two-bedroom two-bath units, 1214-50 square feet, and three-bedroom two-bath units at 1600 to 2000 square feet. There will be an elevator that services all floors. And for the VRA Improvement Study for this area, the building has been set back five feet from the street to provide seven-foot wide sidewalks. And lastly, we have met with the McCormick Civic Association on two occasions and the Abutters on site, and we've received favorable support. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Roger Eradigr. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord and support as the proponents stated. They did present to the Civic Association, and we did hold an onsite of Butters meeting. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McGehrer and City Councilor Frank Baker's Office. We'd like to go and unrecord and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have City Councilor Elijah Michael Flerty. Councilor Dillon, unrecord and support. Anybody here in opposition? I'm just trying to figure this out. So, on the sidewalk there is a garage, the garage door, but you have to go under the covered entry to get to the front to the best of the bill. Is that how it was? That's correct. It's a side entry. We'll be can't delivering a canopy to the sidewalk to kind of signify this as the entrance. So, as you go down the street, you are the entrance to the building first, then the entrance to the garage. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. I will be ready to design with you. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries? We're all set. Thank you. Following BOA 6169809 to 11 Hillsboro Street, there were three companion cases. BOA 61701713 to 15 Hillsboro Street. BOA 61703021 to 23 Hillsboro Street. BOA 61697725 to 27 Hillsboro Street. For 9 to 11 Hillsboro, this is a subdivide parcels, which is 119,648 square feet erect a new two-family building called Building C on 8,713 square foot parcel. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot of 13 to 15 Hillsboro Street. The violation is Article 65, Section 21. Two-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65, Section 42. Two or more dwellings located on the same lot. Article 65, Section 42 conformity with an existing building alignment. This is 413 to 15-year Hillsboro Street. This is a subdivide 119,648 square feet erected two-family building to Building D on 8,713 square feet. This is 9 to 11 Hillsboro Street. The violation is Article 65, Section 21. Two-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65, Section 42. Two or more dwellings located on the same lot. Article 65, Section 42 conformity with an existing building alignment. This is 421 to 23-rare Hillsboro Street. This is a subdivide parcel, which is 119,648 square feet erected two new two-family building called Building E on 6,989 square feet. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot. The violation is Article 65, Section 21. Two-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65, Section 42. Two or dwellings located on the same lot. Article 65, Section 42 conformity with an existing building alignment. This is for 25 to 27 Hillsboro. This is a subdivide which is 119,648 square feet erected a new three-family building building F on 6,989 square feet. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot. 21 and 23 Hillsboro Street. The violation is Article 65, Section 21. Three-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65, Section 42. Two or more dwellings located on the same lot. Article 65, Section 42 conformity with an existing building alignment. Article 65, Section 42. Traffic visibility across the corner. Name and address for the record please. The name is Johnny Chatz, one of the honor's feet. Us, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is the third and final component of the Indigo block that you heard the major part of back on July 26. The initial component of the building is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. This is the four-family building. We have presented the overall proposal. We are looking at these four-family proposals specifically. We are meeting the parking requirements. This is the four-team registration standard. Can you understand why are these four meat to be done separately? process there were some significant design changes to the home ownership units so that it was necessary to go back and get the refusal letters from ISD to reflect the significantly changed design. The original article in Project called for for flex units and for for flex townhouse units it was decided that that our configuration would be a few families and stacked rather than as townhouse units. So buildings E&F, their frontage is on Heldsboro Street and so does that look like it's it's parking. There's three, there's a tandem space and then there's a third parking parking spot to the side of it. Okay and then there are two parking spaces adjacent to building the access of the Hillsboro Street. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Bousani? Dr. Aratican. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services on behalf of Judge McVaddon. We'd like to unrecord and support of this project as the applicant stated it has been through an article 80 community process. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McGehrgren City Councilor Frank Baker's Office, we'd like to go unrecord and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with further beyond the design of the second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Going to call the 1030 cases calling VOA 576 286 133 Cedar Street. The system convert a one-family colonial home into a two-family home. The separation of the first and second floors to make it a two-family. There was a rare addition and a deck. Violation, dynamical 9 section 1 extension of reconstruction of the non-conforming use building. Name and address for the record please. The name is Ramon Tudbides, Maritat Rubides from 133 Cedar Street in Roxbury, Massachusetts. Tell us what you're proposing. We're proposing to convert our one-family home into a two-family basically because we basically have a lot of empty areas based available that we like to put to use. You're proposing a rare addition and a deck? Just a small rare addition of 100. What the size is of the rare addition? Approximately 160 square feet. A rare deck. The addition is how much? Total addition won't be beyond 300 square feet. 300 square feet? Yes. And tell us what the size would be of each of the proposed units? The size of the proposed units will be approximately. The second floor will be combined with the attic with approximately a close to 1500 square feet. And the plus floor? I'm sorry. And the first floor? First floor is approximately 1200 square feet. And where is the parking? How is the parking going to accommodate it? Availability for parking. Approximately four spaces for parking on the side of our house. How are the plans Mr. Pazani? How many bedrooms? Bedrooms for the rental will be about three bedrooms, two and a half beds. The rental will be the second in attic. First floor, we will accommodate about two bedrooms on the first floor. But you also have bedrooms in the basement that are connected? Those should be just storage and recreational areas that we're going to be using for. Yes. How many bedrooms in the basement, Mr. Pazani? Well, there are two rooms in the basement that are set up to be bedrooms. They have aniquity emergency egress out and they are specifically designed for that purpose. There's a full bathroom down there, so look and feel of two bedrooms in the basement. No, this official space. We can get that to work. Okay, and is there a second means of egress for the second proposed unit? With the next thing to go. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Josh McFadden, we'd like to go on record and support. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Just a brown from Councillor Jackson's office, and he will like to give his support. Can you tell us, please, just of what the feel is of seated street at that end? Is it one family, two family, just give us a sense? What we have now? I'm asking the person at the podium. Yes, essentially the street is the street, it's basically a two family household. Thank you. Is anybody here to ask to speak in support? Is anybody in opposition? Okay. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve your own design review with the RA design review. And just to clarify that the plans will indicate that there are no bedrooms in the basement? Act of career. Yes? Yes, no bedrooms in the basement. Okay, is there a second? All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed. Motion carries. Good. Felling BOA 617896, 31 to 33 Elm Hill Park. This is to change the occupants from a two family to a three family dwelling. Violations, Article 5629. Law to area for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 5629, Floody Eratio is excessive. Article 5643, Office for Re-Pocking, De-Design. Name and address for the record, please. Eric Wolf, Article 31 Elm Hill Park, George Estermas. So please tell us what's being proposed? So basically when I bought the house, the basement was already finished out. I learned that I didn't have a change of occupancy. So I then went in and filled out the appropriate documents to get this done and the plan was done. And when we found that these deficiencies were here, I came before you for relief. I was going to put it on in the basement. So basically it's a two bedroom unit that is down there currently. Okay, and there's two ways of getting in and out of it? Yes, ma'am. Okay. And tell us about the parking. So the parking has five, you can fit up to five cars in it, but it is tandem parking. But since we've had that unit, the way we set it up is that the folks share the parking and if somebody needs to get in and out, we actually just move the cars in and out. But there is no tandem parking so all of us can get out by ourselves. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Pazani? I believe it's being taxed as a two. Right, currently. And tell us the size of the units? So the unit in the basement is about 1,200 square feet. The first floor is about 1,300 square feet and I believe my unit, which consists of two floors, is about 3,000 square feet. I have two bedrooms in the basement. You said two bedrooms? Yes, ma'am. How about the first floor? The first floor is two bedrooms. And the last unit? Four bedrooms. Okay. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and behalf of Josh McFadden with Lake2Gone Record and Support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, and just to Brown for Councilor Jackson's office, and he will like to give his support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have City Council out loud. Michael Flarey, Councilor Duan Riggins, support. Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? There is one question I forgot to ask. Ms. Puzani is the utility room separate and are there two means of evening? The utility room is separate from the access to the unit. And the floor is sailing light? It's not a deterioration. What is the floor to sailing light in the basement? Ah, 8 feet. All the first floor you said there is two bedrooms? Ah, the drawing depicts three, one off the kitchen. Ah, you're right. So what happened was we had a section 8 tenant that we had on the first floor. They were using it as a three bedroom. They were using the dining room as a bedroom. But actually, it's still a dining room. It been no longer using it as a bedroom. They chose to do it. And so at the time, that's how I listed it so that it would be accurate to how they were using it. So, Ms. Puzani, the drawings will indicate that it's not a bedroom? We will excise the room. Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion to grant relief requested with the, I'm putting on a proviso no building co-relief. And the reason for that is that I, as to you, should require your fully sprinkled of this building. So we don't want you coming back here and asking not to sprinkler. Got it? No. Okay. Well, check in with somebody. Could you repeat it again? I will. You've had the benefit of using this as a three unit building for a number of years. Okay. You've paying taxes on it only as a two unit building. You've recently purchased the building, right? No. I've purchased it in 2000. Okay. The code clearly requires that three family dwelling units be sprinkled. So with the approval of this as a three family unit, ISD should demand that you sprinkle the built. The reason that we put a proviso no building co-relief is that you cannot come back to us and say that you don't want to sprinkler. You have to sprinkler. Okay. So did we have the motion? We had a second. So, for clarification purposes, are we saying that ISD could come and say you need a sprinkler system and then I would have to come back through this process? No. No. That's to leave that. You have to put a sprinkler system in. You can go on three family house. You're required by building code to put us as a sprinkler system. No choice. That would be okay. It's your decision. You can go back to a two family or you can deal with the building code. So we had a motion. Did you have a second? All right. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries with that proviso. Okay. Calling BOA 608553176 Humboldt Avenue. This is demolishing existing structure and build nine residential units with parking. Violations Article 50 Section 28. Multi-family dwelling is if a bid news. Article 50 Section 29 in sufficient law area. Article 50 in sufficient additional law area. Article 50 in excess of Florida air ratio. Article 50 in excess of height. Article 50 in sufficient open space. In Article 50 Section 29. In sufficient front yard. Name and address for a record please. Michael McGaw, 553 East Fift Street South Boston Mass. Please tell us what's being proposed. Proposing to tear down an existing nursing home that has been abandoned for 25 years and construct a nine unit residential building new construction with nine off street parking spots. How large is the lot? The lot is roughly about 15,000 square feet. 15,000 square feet. Okay. So you have a number of violations. What is the flow area ratio that you're proposing? I will propose. I believe it's about 0.8 and allowable in that area is around 0.9. And the height? And we're actually lower than the existing building. I believe the updated drawings have eliminated that violation but we'll be right at 36 feet. You'll be at 36 feet. Okay. And tell us about the units. How many, what are the unit, Army bedrooms and the units? Six, three bedroom, two bathroom units and three two bedroom, two bathrooms. So I'm sorry. So all the units will be three bedrooms. No, six of them are three bedrooms and three of them are two bedrooms. And the square footage for the three bedrooms? The three bedrooms are roughly about 1,200 square feet and the two bedrooms are roughly 900 square feet. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? The drawings are adequate. Okay. Is any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Josh McFadden, we'd like to go on record and support. This project has been through an extensive community process. The proponent has made revisions based on that process. So we'd like to go on record and support and simply request that the BRA design review will be included. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Justin Brown from Councillor Jackson's Office, and he would like to give his support. Sorry. I called you in a castor earlier. I apologize. Is anybody here in opposition? Will this be stick-built? Yes. Okay. Any may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with the R8 design. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Following BOA 614-989-51, Humboldt Avenue. This is a change of documents from six apartments and office to six apartments in Beauty salon. Work was done since 1993. Violation is identical. 56 from 28. For Bidens. For Beauty salon. Name and address of the record, please. Madam Chair and members of the board, my name is Eric Knado on behalf of the applicant. People's properties is agent for Humboldt departments. With me today is Mamie Dorsey O'Neill, the owner and operator of the Hare Kingdom at 51 Humboldt. Please tell us about the proposed beauty salon. The purpose of why we're here today is to seek change of views from six apartments in office space to six apartments in a beauty salon. Back in 1992, this building was used as a birality company in 1993. Approximately the change of views occurred to a Hare salon. Unfortunately, the documents weren't put forth appropriately to secure the necessary change of views back in 1993. We're here for the purposes of clearing the clerical record up to make sure that the records reflect properly at the city of Boston. Okay. So... This has been an existence for 20 plus years. There has been no change to traffic or any detrimental elements to the neighborhood. If anything, it services a local community and has done for about 23 years. Who owns the building? Mr. Tom Welch. Okay. And are there greats in front of that on that building on that beauty salon? It's way to the side of the building. The windows, but there's no way to the sides. Okay. Okay. Any questions from the board? How are the plans, Mr. Pesiting? The branch eradicate. I'm confused, though, because it shows two hair-aggressing salon visits. So there's... So there's... So there's 51 Humboldt is hair-kinged them, and then there's a separate 53 Humboldt that's another hair salon. It was one commercial space right now. It's still that same space with a partition wall being operated by two separate businesses. Thank you. We're talking about the one with hair-kinged areas. Yes. And is that a separate lock next door? That's a city-owned lock. That's a city-owned lock. Do you have a question? So is this... Is the other hair salon already approved? So I'm not sure that the record reflects that, but we will do whatever is necessary to go through the process. I've been informed that we're here for 51. Have we been here for 53 as well? We would have addressed that in the same way. So we will file an appropriate paperwork, the appropriate plans, and go back through the process to secure 453 as well. There was a clearical error when we submitted our paperwork, our long-form application, from ISD. So we're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. We're going to start with the first one. So these are the angles, which are Kings of the world. The other side. They're the gider. That's the multiplication. That's the inequality number of languages. It's the multiplication.要 Channing be between these two approaches. That's the multiplication of the vectors. So, if you find out that there's a mixture of nazis, that's obviously in white areas. Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services on behalf of Judge McFadden, we'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Justin Brown from Counselor Jackson's Office, and he would like to give his phone. Does anybody here in opposition, may I have a motion please? I'd also like to add that the Garrison Trotter Neighborhood Association was unanimously on board in support and they've informed me they filed a letter of support with this board. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Would we do need to see that inside? Building BOA 591615 86, 86 Ruthven Street. This is Austria Parking for two vehicles. Violation, Diagonal 50, Section 43, Austria Parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. So, tell us and your address, 86 Ruthven Street. So, your proposing parking, is this a one family or a two family? Two. It's a two family and you're proposing parking for two cars? Yes. Okay. Where is the parking being proposed? If I'm looking at the building on which side? On the right. Okay. Mr. Bazzani, how are the plans? The drives are adequate. They have adequate space on the right. We would suggest they pull the parking back because it's so aligned with the edge of the porch. So, it's not Frank Eric Parking. Okay. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and behalf of Josh McFadden. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Justin Brown from Council of Jackson's Office, and you would like to give his support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? There's no curb cut there now, right? No. Mr. Bazzani, is there a... May I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion to grant the relief requested for two cars in space and the right of the building with the proviso that they have adequate space at the space and be pulled back. So, the rear bumper is not... Oh. He's not in advance of the front of the house. So, is that with design review? Yes. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Rolling B.O.A. 599-464-51-Downer Avenue. This is an interior renovation for Unit 3. We move the interior egress stairs and relocate to exterior with replacement of rear decks for all floors. Violation is Article 65, Section 9. Replacement of rear decks increased. Naminadric for the rear yard. Insufficient and side yard insufficient. The replacement of rear decks increased. Naminadric for the wreck, please. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by Bob Freeman, who owns the building along with Paul Bex. His address is 51 Downer Avenue in Doidchester. Madam Chair, members of the Board, this is an application essentially to replace an existing interior and non-conforming egress stair by relocating it to the outside of the building in the rear as part of a new rear deck or a rear porch structure. There are two violations cited for insufficient rear yard setback and insufficient side yard setback. This is a 3F 5000 district. The required rear yard setback is 30 feet. The required side yard setback is 10 feet. There is an existing non-conformity here with respect to both setbacks that is being increased simply by the addition of the deck which, in dissociated stair, that projects out just over or nearly 6 feet 10 and a half inches to be exact from the rear of the building. This increases the existing rear yard non-conformity which after the proposed deck is added would stand at 17 to 18 feet. The rear lot line is actually not perfectly parallel to the front lot line but 17 to 18 feet would be the rear setback. And the decks are they larger than the previous? The structure is yes. The porches are 6 feet 10 inches deep by 15 feet 4 inches with the connecting stairway to the right. The dimensions of the stairway are 6 feet 10 inches by 9 feet 11 inches. So it's the entire width of the building in the rear projecting back just over 6 feet 10 inches. The side yard setback here that's required by code is 10 feet. The existing building has 6 foot side yard setbacks with the exception of a projecting bay. Nothing is changing with respect to the side yard setback except that they are being extended to the rear of the building by virtue of the deck and stair structure. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services on behalf of Laviol DeVega. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McEckron, City Councilor Frank Baker's Office. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, Office of Councilor President Michelle Wu. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have a set of Councilor Michael Flarey, Councilor John Records, and support. And I do have five letters in support. I have four letters that I'll submit to the record. Thank you, thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? I have a motion, please. Motion to approve with the design review from the BRA. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with activisal. Are there any deferrals with Daryl Schrochentari? We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. We're going to take a five minute break and leave over to you at 1130. Just a reminder in conformance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed. Please make sure your cell phones are off and any conversations are taken outside of the room. If you are here to speak and support our in opposition of a project, please put your name and address on the record. We have fact findings so if you have new information to add, please tell us otherwise just put your name and address on the record. Finally, most projects have been through the community process and have been reviewed by the BRA. In all cases, those opinions are advisory to this board. We will make our decision based on what we hear today. Mr. Fortune. Good morning. I'm going to call it for 1030 with Drarles or Deferrals. Are there any Deferrals or Deferrals for 1030? George, you address please? Two matters Mr. Fortune both related 35-37 to Ponset Avenue and 39-41 to Ponset Avenue. For the record calling, BO858313635-37 to Ponset Avenue and BO8583137, 39-41 to Ponset Avenue. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, Madam Mr. Chairman, I'm Stuart Moranson, Attorney for Business Address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. We were prepared to go forward with this today. We discovered that there's some concerns, apparently in the community that are leading the mayor's office to be inclined to recommend against the project, which surprised us a bit since my client relates to all of the very environmental support. So what we would like to do is seek a referral so that we can find out exactly what the issue is and see if we're able to address that successfully and come back and hopefully have a better result. We have a motion for all those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries the date please? The only estate is November 1st. Thank you. 30. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 10-30 cases? Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 11-30 cases? Address please? 16G in Street. For the record calling, BO8586-549-16G in Street. Name and address for the record please. My name is James Christopher with Business Address at 450 in Ponset Avenue representing the owner, Dachlan McCormick. At this time, we request another referral. We've been trying to schedule another meeting with the civic group but due to the conflict between myself and the mayor's office of the neighborhood services, we haven't been able to make that happen yet. And there's still some concerns that we would like to address with the neighborhoods. So I've spoken with the mayor's office and Councillor Frank Baker's office. And at the end of the suggestion we'd like to request another deferral to go back to the neighborhood and resolve the outstanding issues. Is this the second deferral? It is. Motion to defer. Second. All those in favor? Councilor, I won't be able to get until December 6th. Okay. Thank you very much. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 11-30? There are no more. We'll go right to the 10-30 cases. Calling BOA 617-598-139 Stoten Street. This is a renovation in interior and exterior and converted to occupancy for one family to a two family. Constructed second floor addition above and extend living space into the attic area with new dormants. Violation Diagonal 65, Section 41. Us fee parking and load in requirements. Name and address for the record please. My name is 1582. So tell us what you're proposing. We're asking to use the existing parking for one more additional parking space. The existing driveway had been used by the funeral home. Has an existing curb cut. Has been used as a driveway. We'd like to repair the driveway to be able to park one car on. So this is your, so you're proposing to convert from a one-to-two family dwelling. Yes. You're here for Stoten Street? Yes. So it looks like you're proposing to convert your building from a one-to-two family. Is that right? That's right. Okay. And you're proposing new dormers? Yes. Tell us the sizes of the units. We told the units about 2600 square feet each unit. The first floor unit I believe is about 1300 square feet in the top is about 1300. We are within the FAR allowed on the site. And what's the parking requirement and what are you proposing? The parking requirement is one-to-one, but because we're adding an additional unit, we are required to show one parking space on the driveway. So that means that one space blocks two other spaces. Excuse me. That one space blocks two other spaces. Explain that, Mr. Bazzani. If the space is in the driveway, you have two spaces in the rear. We would propose tandem parking in the driveway for two cars. I just want to say that you have in front of you. Yes. These are the plans. What's the width of the driveway? Currently it's about 15 feet. Let's just take a minute and look at the plans and see if this helps us. Thank you. So you're required by zoning to have two parking spots for the entire building. That's right. And how many are you proposing? There's one existence because we're adding one additional unit. We have to show one parking space. So the one parking is in the rear yard? It's right now we're showing you at the front yard line. I'm going to plan the driving to go to the mix and out in the rear. There's parking spots back there. That's right. For a simple issue like parking, can you please take a step back and explain to us what's happening. You have a driveway. It looks like L-shaped. Are there two parking spaces back there of one? We have a driveway. The existing driveway is a straight driveway. What we'd like to propose is for the owner to curve to the back of the rear of the house to be able to park. And how many spaces will be back there? There would be two spaces back there. So there would be two spaces back there plus one up here is ultimately the plan? Yes. I'm sorry, that's very confusing. Why would you do that? We were told by RISD that when we added an additional unit, we have to show one parking space in the driveway. Where we're showing it is the front yard line. The car is occupying and the proposed parking is running the driveway. The car is the way it wants to exit. Is there enough room to make it by a two-canada? No. So is this existing or not? It's existing up to the end of the building. Then you're proposing to add this. And your parking requirement is one parking space for dwelling units. So now you're proposing two parking spaces back here. Yes. So that needs your requirement. Yes. So why do you need this? Because it's only two units. No. It's only two units. We're only going from one to two. I realize that this void is found upon the front yard parking. Well, especially if it blocks the other two vehicles. It doesn't make the least bit of it. Mr. Domingo, please. Unfortunately, you bought the me go. It wasn't transportation department. There's no room for maneuverability in the back. But it has room to park two cars in the driveway. It's very wide. So he can park two cars in the driveway and stand them. But in the back, there's no way to maneuver. It's just too narrow. But he can't fit two cars in the driveway. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani, as far as the conversion of the occupancy and the addition of the dormers? The dormers are very good. Okay. So then we go to the parking. And again, thank you for the clarification, Mr. Domingo. Why didn't you have to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office for Neighborhood Services. On behalf of the Flavio DeVega, we actually would like to request a deferral. I realize the board has just heard the matter, but the applicant is scheduled to present to the Jones-Elsevic Association tomorrow night. It does sound to me like this is something that could use further study. So we would like to request a deferral. Thank you. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Your deferred. That's the day, please. December 6, 1130. Please, when you come back, please try and be more careful. More clear to us about what's going on after the meeting, okay? Just ma'am. Thank you. Calling DOA579079114-126 Washington Street. Change arctave from a check caching business to a liquor store. Minor interior renovations. The violation, dynamical 50, section 28. A liquor store is forbidden. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning. I'm on behalf of my client. Joel Guglia's no relation. Joel Muglia's? Yes. So tell us what's being proposed. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed. Yes. Madam, my client is proposing to open a liquor store at the 114 Washington Street location. He plans on revitalizing and renovating the inside of the current inside of that unit. He currently is the lessc of that unit. We've reached out to the Boston Police Department and we've heard their concerns and we've agreed that no nips or single serving items will be sold. In the packet that we've distributed to the board, my client has collected around a little, around 100 signatures in support of the liquor store in that area, both business manager owners and residential citizens as well. So please clarify this package that you're given to us. Is this the space that's called Community Chiropractic? Yes, that is the space. That is the space. Yes. And how large is it? It is 1,800 square feet metal. And does your client own any other liquor stores? No. So tell us what is in Exhibit C? Exhibit C is a sample of what he proposes to make the inside look like, you know, brand new, fresh, making it very nice in the inside. That's what the Exhibit C is. It's a sample of what his vision is or what the inside will be. Right now the current setup has greats on that. Yes, and those will be removed. He wants to remove all of that and make it more aesthetically pleasing for the area, which is the proposed exterior photographs in Exhibit B, plants, windows, change the sightings as well though. And what are the proposed hours of operation? The proposed hours of operation would be Monday through Saturday, 10, 11, and then Sunday from 12 to 11 with the unarmed security personnel. They're Thursday, Friday, and Saturdays as well. And we have a security plan signed by a security company in Exhibit H. Who is the security company? It's Scales. Scales security, Madam. They do security for businesses in the area. We have had multiple meetings. We had a meeting in mid and February, and we had the Abudders meeting on May 2nd, May 3rd, whatever Monday that is. Yes. I'm going to adjust the parking and loading. That's what you're saying. I'm not sure. I'm parking. It's going to be mostly street parking. Nothing off street. Nothing off street. It will be a parking lot. No, there's no parking lot available. There is something there, but it's not always allowed to park there. So there is space, but it's not allowed to be used as parking areas, only on street parking. So there are some parking areas, as far as deliveries. We can work with the local vendors and see if they can bring us a smaller van as opposed to the 18 foot trucks for deliveries. So there will be parking on the street. Exactly. Have you taken a consideration in different hours before you have your deliveries early morning? Yes. We would try to do the delivery schedules upon the heaviest time of track, but not so effect traffic. Does this need to go to the licensing board? Yes. We have a current license owner who is ready willing to transfer their license to Mr. Nunez. And the transfer would need to go to the licensing board? Yes. You have a visitor? No, not yet. We're waiting for the discussion. We need to get this position of the project here. Any other questions on this board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here in opposition? Please representatives from elected officials, please? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Chita, Councillor Dario Campbell's office. We took our record in opposition. Okay. Now, how many of you are here to speak in opposition to the liquor store? Okay. So put your name and address on the record and tell us what your opposition is. Here is Julie Yoni. 131 Washington Street, Rochester. I oppose the liquor store. Madam Chair, I'm Mary J. Yoni. We're mother and daughter. I'm 131 Washington Street, apartment 3. And I'm opposed. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Sonia Cored. My address is 142 Washington Street. I'm an owner and a resident for over 25 years. Are we allowed to address you with why? Of course. Thank you. Just for the record as well, there has been community meetings and there has been a letter of opposition which I assumed has been submitted. The residents have clearly stressed that they are not in favor of liquor store. We're not opposed to businesses, but we just don't want a liquor store. There's a high school in very close proximity. Washington Street and Columbia Road is a major intersection. I heard the questions about park and we're very congested right now. There's not enough park and the loading and offloading of supplies that a store were not in favor of. There's also two major bus routes, the number 16 and the number 23. At any given time, there are four bus stops in that intersection that's highly populated with residents and school children as well. One of the other issues we also have is that again, there has been a liquor store there way back years. We've had a lot of litter and we've also had disturbances in the neighborhood. It's not a favorable thing that we find. We were here in last month and you approved for a restaurant which there was no opposition from the residents. But we're not in favor of a liquor store being at this site. Thank you. Thank you. Charles Leoni, 131 Washington Street Park 2. I think she's probably covered most of the points that I like to make. But parking on that street is horrendous at all times. It's going to be a big concern with them unloading and loading. And people tend to go to liquor stores and double park. And that's all problems of the day. Even just to run in for two minutes to buy a six-pack of beer. There's no parking spaces which residents can't even buy a parking space. They double park. And those buses and transportation. It's a major bottom. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. On behalf of Flavio DeVega, I'm sorry I missed the first call. But we would like to go on record in opposition given many of the community concerns that have been raised. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster. Please add a council president Michele Wu's office in opposition. Please put your name and address on the record, sir. Robert Hodg, 142 Washington Street, also opposed. May I have a motion, please? Motion for denial. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'm sorry. You've been denied. Thank you. Thank you. This is the new three-story rare addition to an existing three-family residential dwelling. Violation, satical 9, section 1. Extension of an occupying youth. 3F and a 2F sub-district. Article 65, section 9. Insufficient side-yard setback. 10 feet is required. Article 65, section 9. Excessive FAR. Building code. On 120 homes, Avenue. There is sprinklers. There is no sprinkler system proposed. Payment address for the record, please. Sean Smith, 119 Hollinsworth Street, Boston Mass. Douglas Fitz, 42 of the Surinth Street, Dodge, S.M. Mass. We usually start off with asking the applicants to address the building code issue. Are you going to be providing a sprinkler system or not? Yes. We would notify by ISD that we just had to sprinkle the back additional part of the building. That's what we're going to do at the needs here. Okay. Make a motion tonight. Sprinkle. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. That's been denied. So tell us about what you're proposing to do for the building. I'm proposing to add two bedrooms to each addition to my three-decker building. Family size is gotten bigger. And I'm looking to add extra bedrooms. So you're on each floor, you're adding two bedrooms? For what? So tell us how many bedrooms in each unit? It's going to be a total of five bedrooms on each unit. Five bedrooms per unit? Yes. Okay. And how large is the addition? It's a total of the 1800 square feet. Total 1800 square feet. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bessani? Well, the drawings are adequate. So it might correct them. There are actually 15 bedrooms in this house. Five bedrooms per unit. Correct. So 15 bedrooms. Yes. Total. And how many are in the building without the addition? Three bedrooms. Three bedrooms, okay? I need floor. So it's a little parking. No parking. No parking for this? That's a big yard. Is this a unit of a rental for sale? Different. Yes. Who do you propose to be rent to? I didn't hate it. Who do you expect to be your clients? Myself and other tenants. Families. Yeah. How large is the swamp? I larger the lot. It's a total of 6438 square feet. And there is no parking. Yes. So what is incredibly deep? Yes. It is a big lot. It's 37 feet wide, called 38 by 120, 175 feet. Yes. Very big. So tell us about the side yard. Is there a way of accommodating parking there? No. A driveway? No. On the right hand side, we have seven feet. On the right hand side, we have about either four or three on the left hand side. But the way that the building is drawn, it has a little like a little jettel on the side, like a little bed. And that wouldn't allow a supermarket parking. But I don't think seven feet is sufficient for parking for a driveway. That puts an awful load on the street parking situation. You know? How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The drives are adequate. The issue here seems to me to be misdirected in the sense that to do this addition, which brings a total of 15 bedrooms with zero parking, I would think that a better solution would be to carve off the right side of the building, make it a driveway 10 feet wide, and take care of parking. Understand that it's offensive. And you also know that you can't have more than four unrelated individuals in a unit. You know, so you just need to keep that in mind. Two as you propose these five bedroom units. Right now, his family is right now. He wasn't intended to undo a remote or anything like that. And we have to be cognizant here on the board that any variance as we approve, go with the building and not with the applicant. Everything is not cited for a parking. There's no one citing violation for not having a parking. No, no. It wasn't existing. I know they are stating a non-conform new because the area right now is on for two families. But it's been three forever and there's three families in the area. There's a three family. Has it been taxed as a three family? Okay, pardon. So any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office. We have services on behalf of La Vio DeVega. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckrin, City Councilor Fred Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Is anybody here in opposition? So given the information that we have and the testimony may have a motion, please. This will be on occupied, you said, right? Yes. Ownership doesn't matter. Yes. Given that there's no issue of a variance of citing a variance of parking and I will make a portion of the ground. It's really frustrating to lose up the area, it's an only concern. If there's any way you can address the area parking, you can be really building up that street. Unless this is a denial without prejudice and asks the applicant to come up with a new design, perhaps. That's not a problem for the variance. Okay, so there's a motion on the table. I'll second that motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed? So, Carrie's approval would be our A-Design review. Okay. Thank you. Following DOA552, 016-386-HIPAC Avenue. This is the PAC-1 vehicle curb cut approved by the Boston Public Works Department. Violates without a pretend section one, R-T parking, less than 5 feet from the side-law, is conditional. Name and address for the record, please. I'll just say PAC-1, the address of the PAC-1, R-T-R-R-Z-L, Mass-02131. And you're proposing two parking spaces? Yes, please. And where are they in the front and the right side or left side? The right side. When you look at the building, it's on the right side. One parking space. And this is for one parking space or two parking spaces? No. And is there parking on that side of the street on the street? Parking on the street? Yes, there is parking. There is parking on the street. Yes. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Oh, somebody. Sorry, that's too. Any questions from the board? Mr. Pizotti, how are the plans? The plans are adequate and it actually does show it's possible to park one car. It won't be the front yard parking. This is a request for two cars. Yeah, here is from the surveys. We have a driving source to have a single car. And then this is the chair that's being taken by a boy. So it just opened a little bit of the car. It's 43 feet in the longest and the 12 feet width is perfectly enough for two parking. And is this a one family or two family? Three family. It's a three family. While they are looking over the plans, is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Julian Darty, we'd like to go and record and support this project has successfully completed the community process. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? Mr. Dameco? Madam Chair, the member of the board, Bob Dameco, BTCD. You can't fit two cars, but it results in front yard parking. It's also front yard parking. If you have two cars, it'll result in front yard parking. So I really can't go along with approving the design with two cars because it's right near the sidewalk. And what's the required ways of the driveway? Well, usually a driveway is 10 feet, but you can be flexible with that. Seven or eight feet will work because not everybody has a big white car. So you could squeeze in the seven foot width, but looking at that new plan, one of the vehicles is in the front yard. Mr. Pazani, how are the plans? The issue is exactly that. However, if you pull the compact car all the way up, as far as you go, the set of stairs there, that would humiliate the front yard parking. I want to make a motion. Mr. Pazani, can two cars be accommodated or it's just one car? Two cars can be accommodated. The question is whether one car, in fact, is front yard. If he pulls the first car up further, he will humiliate the condition that I think would be acceptable. Okay. We have a motion, please. Motion for approval. Would design review to address that issue? Yes. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that proviso. Okay. Calling B-O-A-614-309-15 Robin Street. Adding two shed dorms to an existing second floor, the dorm is at to be 18 inches off the roof from both sides to below and keeping the original ridge height. The relation is article 56, section 8. Side yard is insufficient. Name and address. Other I could please. William Regan, 114 Pleasant Street, plain bill mess. So please tell us what's being proposed. Right now the house has one large bedroom upstairs, two down. We wanted to move the bedrooms up on the second floor. Is this a second floor, ma'am? Single family home. Okay. So my proposal was to put two shed dorms without exceeding the height of the ridge, leave some roof lines so it still looks like the cave that it does now. Right. And just put two shed dorms and move the bedrooms up. And the only violation is your side yard which I'm assuming is existing. Yes. How was the plan for Mr. Design? The crimes are real entry, but we are in an health. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. On behalf of Chris Rusk, we'd like to go on record and support. There wasn't a butters meeting on this project and there were no issues raised. Thank you. Thank you. Members of the board, Bill McGregor, a city council of Maddo Mallee. The council would also like to go on record and support. And Chair, members of the look, Paul Sullivan. We have to discuss our lives, Michael Flerty. I attended the butters meeting with Chris Rusk from the mayor's office. There was no opposition from the immediate butters for that reason the council had to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion approval with the B.A.R.A. Design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set with that provided. Thank you. Following POA 57903319-21 Gordon Street. There's also building code POA 57903219-21 Gordon Street. This is a spiral staircase. We're located at 19 Gordon Street in Austin. American design high and we're a confabricate prep paint and install. One spiral staircase from ground level to the attic on the left side of the house. Violation's article 9 section 1. Reconstruction extension of an on-conforming building. Two F and a 1 F 300 3000 sub-district. And for building code, this is section 780 CMR R311.1.7.5. The landing for stairways and flight of stairs shall not have a vertical rise, larger than 12 feet between floor levels and landings. Name and address for the record please. Lawrence Hampton 35 Crest Road sharing. David Choi. Are the American design eye work? Is this the owner of the building here? I'm the manager. The owner could make it. You're the manager? Yes. And this is a one family or two family? Two family. It's a two family building. How many bedrooms in each unit? One is five, one is four. One has five, and one has four. Okay. And residences are families who live in these buildings? It's what working, kind of young working professional types. And tell us, you have a building code violations. Is anybody here to here can address that? Sorry, what's the violations? It's the building code violation. Where the spiral staircases proposed, that's limited area to add landing every 12 feet. Is this a means of egress? Yes. This will be a means of egress. This is to basically increase public safety. And the issue is that the only area in which you could add the second means of egress is on the left side or I guess on the north east side, which because of the site restrictions, it's difficult to add a stair landing and a stair rising run that meets all of the codes. So this is the second means of egress on the exterior of the building? Yes, for the top floor. Okay. So there's two means of egress except for this top like attic space. Right, so there's just one means, one stairway going up from the second to the third floor. I'm excited to back them up there. It's just an open space, so the tenants use, they have some recording equipment or whatever up there, storage type stuff. But we felt we didn't want to have any issues where there's only one means for them to go down in the case of an emergency. So we felt we just would feel better knowing that if anyone's up there, there's another means of egress. So there's an open space there. I know the floor below this five bedrooms. So it's actually three levels. So there's the first and second floor, like a duplex tile. And then this is third floor, which was I guess a one point, you know, attic. And that's all been finished. I'm sorry. I still need to understand. So these are two units. Duplexes one side has five and one has four bedrooms. Right. But actually this unit, so they're both duplexes. But this one has the attic space that kind of covers the whole house. So it's a very large space. So the pool bedroom unit has that open space attached to it. And there's plenty of windows and all that's very large area. So the record, this is a voluntary increase of public safety. It's a voluntary increase of public safety. Honestly, I just feel better sleeping and I know that there's, you know, I told you on earth. Let me chime in on. Sure. Number one. You know, it's very clear. Okay. You can only go 12 vertical feet without a landing. You're going 24 vertical feet. The idea that this is a adequate secondary means of egress is nonsense and falling sensitive. When there's an emergency, it's never on a nice spring day. Okay. Generally happens in the middle of the night in the winter and to go down 24 feet on a circus there's criminal. Actually, they are. The motion for denial. Well, actually, two, actually, is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? So this is, so your opposed to denial of that? Okay. So this is a denial of the building code relief. Now, speak to us the merits of the spiral staircase. No, I know that was an option. That was a motion to include everything. The whole thing. Okay. Just so to clarify. This is. So if I were you to deny me giving building code denial to the spiral staircase because it's 24 feet high and does not have adequate landing as provided by the code. Okay. Okay. So that was for the building code relief. Do we need to hear the merits of the case? Sounds like it makes it move. So therefore, we have a motion for the rest of it. Actually, two designs submitted to the city. The second design does include a landing. All we want to know is the design that you submitted to us does not include a landing. And just to make sure that you're the owner of the building knows that the zoning code requires that there be four unrelated individuals in a building. Just so they're clear about that. Okay. So this actually this was a second edition that was submitted to the ISA. Okay. So this. You can build that as a bright picture. You know, you can build it for a relief. And how do you look at an interior solution to this? We have an extensive. We know I think it will be a lot more complex. I'm sorry. It will be a lot more complex, but we can look into it. Okay. Okay. So, well, you know, I would feel better if you just spoke to us about the merits of the case. Of the spiral staircase and what your alternate solution is. Is it also a spiral staircase? The creation of a spiral staircase up to 12 feet and then basically a landing and then a stair up to the, is the third for the attic level access. Can we have drawings to show that? This was submitted. Yeah. No. Okay. In the meantime, is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services on behalf of Warren O'Reilly. We cannot support this project at this time. We do feel that some of these issues could be worked out through deferral. However, if the board does not wish to grant a deferral, we would have to oppose the case due to community concerns. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin McLaughlin from Councillor C. Omos office. And we would echo the mayor's office's sentiment. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomez, the Brighton Austin Proof of the Association. We'd like to go and wreck it against this. There has been no community process on this. Okay. Give him that. We have a motion for tonight. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? So it's been denied. Calling BOA 609358, 688 Parson Street. There is also a companion case, BOA 609355, 10 Parson Street. This is to construct a new four-story mixed-use building. There will be 88 parking space garage located beneath the structure. On the ground floor, there will be a grocery store, a bank, and a building management office. There will be 54 residential units on the upper floors. Resubdivide it, lot, and conjunction. The violation is Article 51, Section 8. Multi-family residential is the building. Fibidin. Article 51, Section 8. Accessory parking is forbidden. Article 51, Section 8. Residential management office is forbidden. Article 51, Section 9. Flaudier ratio is excessive. Article 51 building height is excessive. Article 51 building height number of stories is excessive. Article 51. Usable open spaces in sufficient. Article 51, Section 9. Side yad is insufficient. Article 51, Section 9. Ray yad is insufficient. Article 51, Section 17. Actual is excessive. Article 51 building height is excessive. Article 51 usable open space is insufficient. Article 51 section 17 side yada is insufficient. Article 51 section 17 ray yada is insufficient. And Article 51 section 56, our street parking is insufficient. This is for 10 cars. This is the re-reinnovate in existing house. Change of occupancy from a single family dwelling to a two family dwelling. Resubdivided a lot in conjunction with 6 to 8 positive street. The violation is Article 51 section 8. Use of a two family dwelling is forbidden. An Article 51 section 56, our street parking is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mark LeCasse. Business address of 75 Arlington Street in Boston. With me is Babak Vaci who is the developer of this project, as well as Aaron Masket from Henry and Associates, our architect. And we also have with us Mike Santos from Howard Steinhutson on the traffic and transportation issues. Before you is a proposal to demolish an existing commercial structure at the corner of Washington and Parsons Street in Brighton and construct a new four story 54 unit residential building with street level retail space which will consist of a 14,000 square foot urban grocery market, which is received wide support from the community as part of our process. There's also an existing residential structure at 10 Parsons Street, which will be preserved again in response to the community process. And that will be a two family residential building. With respect to the larger property at the corner of Washington and Parsons, when Mr. Secretary read the violations, it seemed that there were many. Part of that is as a result of the lot being in two different zoning sub districts. The parcel fronting on Washington Street is in a neighborhood shopping district. And then an existing surface parking lot which is being joined to build the larger mixed teams building is in the 1F 5000 sub district. So the zoning code refusal letter contains essentially duplicate violations for each of the two sub districts rather than a host of additional violations. We've been through the Article 80 large project review process extensively would be an understatement. The letter of intent was originally filed in October of 2012. In December 2012 there was a prefiling community meeting with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. Please can you speak to us? What is existing on that on that parcel? So at the corner of Washington and Parsons is a circular building that contains commerce bank. And then adjacent to that is a mixed use commercial building. Two-story mixed use commercial building. And then behind that there is a large surface parking lot that extends to the length of Parsons Street to the adjacent property at 10 Parsons. And there's an overhead map here that Aaron can point out the subject location. So this parcel, I need to start a little confused about how the two family dwelling fits into this. The two family dwelling is on a separate lot with the separate address of 10 Parsons Street. So the elevation here shows the proposed new structure of the corner of Washington and Parsons Street on the right-hand side as Parsons Street. And if there's an elevation that shows the single family existing. Okay. So there is a little further down Parsons Street or at least a diagram. Here we are. So to the right-hand side of the diagram, the white block in the lower right-hand corner is the existing 10 Parsons Street. And that is being preserved as a two family residential building. If you're looking at Google Earth, the 10 Parsons Street is a green building. And it's been referred to throughout this process as the greenhouse. And that is adjacent to the surface parking. And so how many units in this residential unit in this proposed building? So in the proposed new forest story building, there are 54 residential units. 13 one bedroom, 38 two bedroom, and three three bedroom for a total of 54 residential units. The parking consists of a 37 space surface parking area which will be in part for the grocery store. And below grade there is a parking garage which contains 88 parking spaces for a total of 125 parking spaces. The unit sizes range from? There are some at 850 square feet of one bedroom. The average for the two bedrooms are 1100 square feet and the three bedrooms are around 1,300. Only three of them though. Okay. Okay. And what is the parking requirement for the residential portion of it? The parking requirement in the zoning code is two per dwelling unit and two per 1000 square feet of commercial retail space. However, importantly, this project was subject to large project review and footnote one of table J of Article 51 provides that the opposite parking requirements shall not apply to projects that are subject to large project review. The parking requirements shall be determined by the Article 80 large project review process which is actually a footnote that appears in all of the neighborhood district parking requirements. But I note that for projects that do go through large project review, ISD consistently cites the off street parking requirement. But the code specifically provides that the off street parking is to be determined by the large project review process which of course in this case it was. Any affordable units? There are seven units which are subject to the inclusionary development policy as well as the developer is making a financial contribution to the IDP fund. We received Article 80 large project review approval from the BRA board on April 14, 2016 and like to submit the BRA approved board memo for the record. I'm sorry, so these seven units will be accommodated on site? Yes. Accommodated on site. Equally distributed. Equally distributed. And subject of course to one of our post article 80 contract requirements which is an affordable housing agreement with the BRA which is still in the works. Additionally, the Article 80 approval requires that the proponent enter into a series of agreements with the BRA which are also pending and subject to negotiation. That's the cooperation agreement, the affordable rental housing agreement, the Boston residents construction employment plan agreement and a transportation access plan agreement with BTD. There have been certain, sorry about that. Certain recommendations have been made throughout the process about the traffic issues and I believe there are some members of the community here to speak to those issues. It is an ongoing part of the process and we have submitted conceptual plans to BTD for their approval as part of the TAPA agreement with the BRA and it is ongoing. We have with us Mike Santos from Howard Stein Hudson if there are any specific questions either now or in rebuttal about the traffic mitigation measures that are being proposed for the intersection of Washington and Carson Street. The question comes about these were the original plans that were submitted for the DADD 310-16 and these representatives of what was actually approved by the BRA. There were 310-16, March of 16. That was the latest reiteration here. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Representatives from elected officials? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services on behalf of Warren O'Reilly. We would like to go on record and support this project has been through an extensive community process as part of the Article 80 process. We understand there are concerns about traffic but residents are working with the BRA to have a larger conversation about traffic. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin McLaughlin from Councillor Siammles Office. We'd also like to go on record as being in support. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Rick Hollahan. I live in Brighton 750 feet away. I am in support of this. There's traffic in Brighton Center. However, this project is probably going to have people who use public transportation. The express bus picks up right outside. We need a grocery store in the community. And then finally I ask that you inquire about where people live if they're in opposition to this project. Thank you. Chair, I also have over a dozen letters of support and various petitions which have been signed by a butters and neighborhood residents in support of the project that I'd like to submit for the record. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. I'm also on the Impact Advisory Group for this project. The majority of the Impact Advisory Group is in favor of this project. The BAA voted to support it. We do acknowledge that there are some concerns with traffic and that there are some neighbors that do not support it. But we do feel that this project will be great in terms of having residential housing in Brighton Center which there is a lack of. And we feel that that is important to vitalizing Brighton Center, having foot traffic. And we hope that going forward with licensing for the grocery store, we will address that there is box trucks to deliver which we promised to put in the lease agreement as well. And to further address the traffic issues that may be arise from that. Thank you. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Walker, electrical workers, local one on 50 speak and strike to put also. Thank you. Well, then Chair, members of the board of minor petitors representing the carpenter's union, we'd like to vote on record and struts support of this project. Thank you. Thank you, Annabelle. Hold on. How many people are here in opposition? Three or four of you, so please come forward. Put your name and address on the record. And just as I had asked before, add some new information to what somebody has said rather than repeat. Okay, my name is Angela Tang. And if the A4SRIT is right behind of this project. And it's amazing because the last time we have two public meeting is only for this project. Majority of them just like against it because in Ryansan, there's a very tense and traffic. And then we started the file one, the file three, the 57, and all the bus, you know, go from the washing machine. And then, you know, the school, they come from the passing. And passing is a very, very narrow street. And you know, if one car, sometimes if one car come out from that project, two way need to stop. And only one car out, then two way need to stop a long time because it's so damn. Because from a washing machine to a potter, go to Paxen Street. You need to go to a third drive and water tower. So, man, your concern is basically traffic? Yes, and traffic. And another thing, you know, from the, from the, from the Roger Brothers market place, what they propose is that within one way, they have 100 deliver and they have one third of them is 18 will. Here's your, here. Two concerns is traffic and delivery to the grocery store. Yes, and you know, just like, and, and, and, Passen Street is a very narrow street. Now, our street is in foster. We need to go to Paxen Street and then go to the narrow, serious street and go to, where, where I live is in foster street. It's right now is, it's just so bad. And, you know, and last time we have a two meeting in the, in the, in the public, special for this, we ask for the traffic plan. There's no traffic plan. So, right now, it's very dangerous if there's no traffic plan. And if there's, and they have a lot of residents live right there. So, you know, our, this is very concerned because it's not, if I, I, I, I, I, I, then, you know, we live in there. We have a lot of residents. Not this one is the, the Brighton Center is not the commercial is the president. A lot of residents live in there. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. So, so far I've heard traffic delivery, a lack of traffic plan and the narrowness of Parsons. Do you have something else to add to it? Do you name an address? Yes. My name is Susan Rufo. The address is 9 and 11 Parsons Street in Brighton. The concern that I have is the process for which this project has gone through the article 80 process has always been the address of 425 Washington Street. All of the correspondence has been 425 Washington Street. In fact, the approval that you were given from the BRA identifies 425 Washington Street. 6 in 8 Parsons Street has never been a property address for, for this particular parcel. And in fact, 6 in 8 Parsons Street according to ISD where I was yesterday when it comes, it doesn't come up on the computer. It comes up as an invalid address. I entered in 6 invalid 8 is the vacant lot. So, all of this activity that is being attributed to the variance relief to 6 in 8 Parsons Street is incorrect. And I think by that the application is faulty. All of the correspondence from Boston Transportation, also the LED article 37. All of the notifications for the abouters and in fact the butter meeting we just had in August was identified for 425 Washington Street. And in fact, the issue is the majority of the 54 units are all on 425 Washington Street. There's very little if nothing on 6 in 8 Parsons Street. For those reasons, because there is lack of clarity on actually what parcel you were voting on, I respectfully request that the board defer this so that there can be more clarity. And actually the application correctly reflect the address which is 425 Washington Street for the large project. The 10 Parsons Street are also does not exist. And according to the city of Boston assessing records, it's listed as 10 Parsons Street. So the fact that misinformation has been shared with the board with regards to the location is an important fact and I think a consideration to make sure that it's correct. So the fact that the proper addresses are given the code for the air-ances relief that they're seeking. So again, I respectfully request until we can get clarity that this application be deferred. Thank you. I also have to speak in opposition. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. Hold on. If anybody else is speaking, can you please line up right behind the person at the podium. Thanks. Okay, go ahead. Yes. My name is Loretta Sidroni, 12 Parsons Street, Brighton, Director Butter. I don't necessarily want to repeat other things that have been said but I just want to point out that at the time that this project was approved, there was a great amount of concern still within the community. And largely they involve the traffic and parking. I mean, Parsons Street is a residential street where people live in work and park their own vehicles. So we did ask the city if we could have an independent analysis of some of the reports that we were receiving which were a bit outdated, frankly, so that we can understand the potential long-term impacts on having this massive project come to the neighborhood. And I think the concern that the neighbors have had, I understand that some work has been taking place but frankly, those of us who have looked at the files of the BRA, we're seeing no other additional information available. And we do want to be sure that the community is still involved in those discussions because for those of us who are committed to this community, there's concerns still. So I ask your assistance on that. Thank you. My name is Fred Salvo-Chi, I live at Six Lester Street in Brighton. Mrs. Salvo-Chi, can you speak up a little bit? I'm not catching you. Sorry, my name is Fred Salvo-Chi, I live at Six Lester Street in Brighton. That's the next block to Parsons. I've lived in Brighton 74 of my 76 years so I know the area quite well. There are three matters here that are obfuscated a bit by considering it one project. Number 10 Parsons Street has historically been a beautiful single-family sort of Victorian home. As a kid, I was in the house. I know the inside and the back yard. It's a beautiful property. It is still inhabited by a tenant. And it's still got a beautiful back yard. Under the existing zoning, that building should be rehabilitated because it's in very bad shape and stay the way it is with the back yard and the side yard intact. The owner promised to fix it two years ago. It still does affect it's in quite shabby condition, which is a real problem. I would urge that on that matter that the board flat turned down any variances so that the house retain its quality with the back yard without having crowded into the back yard and extra building, which is in some other documents and not in some other documents. I presume the documents that show an added building jammed into the back yard are the ones that the developer intended. They are totally inappropriate to that property. I would urge that be turned down flat, leaving the side yards which are intact today and the back yard intact today but rehabilitating the house because it badly needs the work. That's one matter. It is the edge house of Parsons Street so it sets the tone for the street. The next house, the house after that, the rest of the street is very well maintained. If this is restored as a good adequate house with proper open space as it now has, that will help to secure the neighborhood so it's in the interest of the general neighborhood for the current zoning to be enforced. The second matter is on the six and eight numbers, which are really the parking lot today. Those are a bit complicated because the plan, as we've seen it, includes a lot of housing units that are at the four-story height, which is not a particular urban design problem on Washington Street but is quite inappropriate on Parsons Street. That in my view ought to be considered separately and at least scaled down. The fourth 25th Washington, which is the guts of the project, has a bunch of housing four-story is high and retains the bank and proposes to put in the roadstrapers. That's where the real threat for significant traffic problems comes from. I've got a background in transportation. I teach transportation planning at MIT. I've got a degree from MIT. I work for city government. I work with state government. I know transportation fairly well. I know in respect a lot of consultants, but we all know that the consultants work for the developers and they are somewhat constrained by that. We ask for an independent review by BTD, an independent review by BTD of the transportation situation there. The overall transportation situation in Brighton Center is very close to gridlock. Last night I visited my cousin in Newton at a nursing home driving back at 630 at night. The backup reached almost to Oak Square way down the street. Me getting home a few minutes late from visiting my cousin is not a big deal. But that's also the main route for fire trucks to protect the community in the west and half. And for ambulances seeking to access the now expanded St. Elizabeth's emergency room. A little bit of delay in an ambulance is a huge deal if you are the person in the ambulance. This is a serious problem. I use the public transportation system all the time. The 501 and 503, 57 and around the corner. You've got the 65 and the 86. But those generally good quality bus services get gridlocked in the traffic and degraded. So the traffic is a big problem. The traffic consultants admitted at one of the public meetings that you cannot put a traffic light at the corner of passons because it's too close to the traffic lights on either side, one at Market Street and one on Foster Street. So this is a serious problem without an obvious solution. And the more you try to pack into it, the worse that problem is going to get. In the larger context, the turnpike change in tolls is likely to drive traffic more into the community. The new balance development is likely to drive traffic towards Brighton Center. So the situation over time as the area densifies and we know that's going to happen gets worse. So this is a critical intersection that really requires the independent traffic review of B.T.D. The other downside to the 425 issue because housing is a good thing. And the proposed approach brothers will exacerbate the traffic in a significant way. But it also has been provide a lot of competition to a pioneer of block away. There's a fruit store called Johnny Dees that does fruit and vegetables. Terrific guy. He invested in a store when no one else was investing in Brighton Center. I get my fruit there all the time I was with him yesterday. And there's a big downside to a big competitor to him a week of block away. The city spends money and they should. And I applaud that on the Main Street Program in China on card small businesses. This is a guy who's really contributed to the community. He should not be unfaithily part of business, which I think happens as Roach Brothers comes in. The one countervailing thing about Roach Brothers, which did lead to some community support because the meetings were mixed. People don't like the traffic. But at the time of all the community meetings, there had been no food store in Brighton Center since Flanagan was displaced by the CBS. And it resonated with lots of people that we should have a food store. Lots of people feel that I feel that. Before the BRA actually approved it, but after all the public meetings, a food store, a beef fresh, got their permits down the street in a less critical location of Washington Street. I can easily walk there, but I've driven there intentionally just to see how the traffic works. I've been down there three times since they opened. No problem finding a parking space, no problem with the traffic. They're far enough away. They don't really compete with Johnny D. So the big deal in terms of community benefit that was on the minds of many of the commenters when the meetings were mixed, some negative, some positive, the positives were mostly associated with ending the food desert, having a place to shop. And the circumstances now changed because of beef fresh. It's a major changing circumstance. That was a circumstance when the BIA approved the project by a majority, not even an enemy's vote. So I would urge that the 425 part of the project be sent back to the drawing board for reconceptualization, not against housing. And I'm not against the kind of commercial that's there now. But I don't think we should be putting Johnny D out of business. And the need for the food store is now being obviated by the President's other food store. That at least you go back a serious discussion after there's a BTD independent traffic study. The traffic studies are big deal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a written comment I'd like to submit. Yes please. Okay. So it sounds like we have a number of issues. Can you please respond to the traffic and when the anticipated traffic plan is supposed to be done. Prior opposed construction. Second. The what is the correct address is this 425 Washington Street or is it 628? So that's the second issue. Third is it sounds like there is also a question now about the proposed retail use in that space. I don't remember the code and I don't remember if there is a limitation on the size of that retail use. And then it looks like there's also an issue with 10 parts in street and why is it part of this development. And it looks like that is those boil down to the issues that are put into this request. Yes. If you would like our traffic engineer to address the current traffic plan which is under review with the BTD Mike Santas is here from Howard Stein Hudson and he can explain the current conceptual plan for handling the sidewalks and the anti gridlock prevention striping of the intersection. This is in Brighton Center. Yes. Okay. Quickly tell us what how this the impacts of this project will be emulated. Can you hear me today? We had met with BTD discuss several options for a consent intersection of the public budget street, the street and the project site right here. The site access on the Carson Street. Currently Carson Street one way in each direction, apart from the old sides. The crosswalk is pretty wide and maybe 50 feet length. We have another pedestrian crossing right here under existing conditions. We did look at the installation of the traffic signal here for improvements. We also looked at expanding Carson Street through lanes by the left turn and the right turn lane. One of the issues here is that it was very difficult to make a left turn out onto the Washington Street because the traffic signal down at the market street sometimes keeps back for the intersection. We went through this inter-div process with BTDD and come up with this specific conceptual plan for improvements. They are currently reviewing this now with their engineers. We believe this to be pretty close to what the final plan of BTD approved plan will be. What we are showing here is human parking through the intersection. BTDD did not support that proposal. They chose to go with the un-punished pedestrian. The exit from the garage entrance and exit into the garage. Where is it? That's off of Carson Street right here so we can make a left turn or right turn from the garage and turn left to the garage right into the garage from Carson Street. Did you do a vehicle of counter in Parsons currently? We did. Currently there is approximately 400 vehicles per day that travel up and down in Parsons Street. What level is that? ABC. That's just a number. What level of service? At the intersection? The intersection operates a level of service F. And I think you know what the last F is failing. F means that you experience over 50 seconds of delay. We've heard testimony that it's way more than 50 seconds. I think all the testimony that you heard is reflection of the existing traffic conditions through the regional traffic conditions, and that's why we're talking about the traffic. So the traffic study shows that this 4,500 vehicles traveling down Parsons during a day. That's about the approximation. We just did heat out our counts and then the 4,500 is the fact that those out there get the daily bulk. But that's pretty good approximation. Okay. Has this been shared with the community at all? The gathering all of the traffic studies of public documents. This is the plan that we presented at the last. I think it was the IHR public meeting we showed this. I think I end up for Matt. The last meeting. Thank you. And again, the TAPA agreement is still something that is pending and we won't get our final article 80 certification until and unless we have an approved traffic plan with BTD. Okay. Thank you. Tell us about the address issue. This project has always been identified by name Parsons Crossing, all of our filings with the BRA identify the property as Parsons Crossing. We were before this board during the original iteration while article 80 was pending and had a number of deferrals. And at that time the zoning code refusal letters identified the property as 425 Washington. We had after the project changed at least 4 or 5 different times during the original article 80 process. Supplemental filings were made. The original appeals to this board were withdrawn without prejudice. When we resubmitted to ISD and I'm surprised to hear that ISD, one of the opponents was not able to find it. ISD actually changed the address to the current addresses and the new zoning code refusal letters were issued. 6-8 Parsons Street is the larger parcel that fronts on Washington Street and 10 Parsons has always been the address of the single family house along Parsons Street. So there is no confusion about the address. There is no misinformation about the address. The property is what it is and has always been identified by parcel number, by name. There is absolutely no question that there has never been any confusion at any of the meetings, at any of the presentations, at any of the a butter meetings. People know where it is, people know what we are talking about. And again, the address was changed by ISD, not by the proponent. If I may, and to check, I would say that the residential access main residential interest is on Parsons. That is the intent from the address. That is where I.S.D. is changing the address of the front door residential to that address. And one item regarding the traffic is that the tenant has agreed to all stipulations regarding deliveries, no tractor trailers deliveries, box trucks only. And so all those issues are going to be in the lease and put in writing. Now I just want to then go to the use. The other concern is the use. Right. The retail use taking away from local businesses and the local business concept that is important to the community. Absolutely. I find it just surprising that. I just want to talk about technically, about the use. Yes. The use. Okay. So keep it to that. I am keeping it to that. It's surprising that someone would speak on behalf of someone who is allegedly going to be harmed by the Roach Brothers supermarket when that very business person who owns Johnny D's Food and Vegetable stand has actually signed and submitted a letter of support which is now part of the record. And in fact is not concerned by competition but in fact is of the business mind that a bigger store down the street drawing lots more pedestrian traffic is good for him. And in fact he has submitted a letter of support for us. And so tell us again about how the delivery will occur to this grocery store. Will it be off of Washington Street or is there a rear access to it? So there is the loading dock is accessed by the driveway along Parsons Street. Aaron if you could point out to the driveway at the front on Parsons Street there's a driveway that runs between the connection point for the building. And the loading docks are at the rear of the building if you could point to those with sufficient turning radius in the surface parking area for the off street parking. Again all done in specific response to very many public meetings where the issue of delivery of the grocery stores was was discussed. And the solution is that the off street loading will be done at the rear of the grocery store accessed from the driveway along the street along Parsons Street. And immediately in the blank white space at the top of this rendering is a CVS pharmacy with a large parking lot behind it. So there is no residential use to the immediate north or... Is the supermarket use definite at this point? The supermarket use is definite. That is how this entire project has been conceived, proposed, discussed and approved. Is that that space is going to be a grocery store. It's part of our board approved memo. It's the very essence of... My point is there's no chance that at this point there will be... It can be broken up in the other several retail units. That has what we've trying to do to... As of yesterday they're still committed and we have signed the letter of intent. They are very eager to become part of the community. And there is... My commitment has been all along to bring that specific market that is one of the friendliest market in the city of Austin. I also live in Brighton and I'm aware of the green first market that did open that. But are we going to have that? Okay. And then I think the last issue is 10 Parsons Street. 10 Parsons is a single family and it's a subject of a separate appeal. Is a single family which you are requesting to be converted to a... To a two family. Yes. To a two family and it looks like the violations of the use because that must be one of five... One of five thousand sub district, yes. And then off street parking and loading. Again on the off street parking and loading component part that was addressed and resolved by our article 80 approval process. And there is parking for that residential... As Aaron's pointing out on the rendering there are three parking spaces for the residential building. Why is it part of this project? The entirety of these parcels is owned by the same developer. Again there were various iterations of this project in the now four year process that it has been through. There was a strong desire on the part of the community that that building be preserved as residential use. It is being preserved. I don't think there's anything unusual about a developer owning multiple parcels and doing them in 10. Is any of that locked being used for the development at six to eight parking street or has the lock pre-plated locked remaining as it's always been? It's remaining as it has always been. I think the reference was to the... If you can point to it Aaron please. No way in the back. There's a small building being constructed for an on-site management office for the developer's company. The developer is going to occupy the small building at the very far rear corner of the 10 parcels lot and that's what's being added. Tell us how that lock is. The lock where the current houses is located on originally the entire building came and occupied this building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The lock is located in the back of the building. The reason for the truth and the info on the lock is that it has been very big about 45 years. And right now, a 45-year-old is working is not going to sit too many, many... So you just want to support the slides. Can you just point this on the map? What the boundaries of the original lock for a kid? The original lock is right here. Oh, I see. Okay. So we have a... And no part of the big building is... I have a BRAZ only Madame Chair if that would assist. No, I don't. The current 425 Washington Street. The current 8th Parkston. The current 10th Parkston. This is working. Yesterday, we committed not to build at all part of the building. It would not be close on the current 17th, 10th parkston. The 17th Parkston's working and keep the entire building. Because originally there were two buildings for both. And it came all the way to the back to the house. We have cut it back. The line of the building is right here. There's a 35 foot set back from the house to the existing house. And we maintain that the entire building would be only on date with the current 8th and 425. And what do you think? Two stories. The best thing on the story is that last building, I have it. Actually, the rent is really high. That's it. This is it. There is a small 7th minus 4th without this building that I'm planning to build in this area. Okay. From the same thing with the song parking space, the city segregated from the entire park. Now, next to 10, is that 12 parts? This is 12 parts. What is there enough street and property from lights from the cars, etc. proposed? This is what we have discussed as extensively. We have one of the 12 parts of the street and we're ready for any type of buffering that for the expense, three buffering that we are committed in multiple times. And what is the block in between 10 parts? Yes, what is that? This is the entrance of the residential building. The first story is on the ground level is the supermarket of the bank, the market of the bank. And this second floor occupies all the way to here. It's a huge building. The building is connected. That just shows that at street level there's the driveway. And we have created a greater cost in coverage area for the low-daint area. This whole area is completely covered and so noise cannot even go anywhere else. It will give us a purpose. So the portion of the building that's open is above the second floor. And where's the access to the garage? The parking garage comes from here. We go down and go down to the 88. And it ends up down here where the portion is set, the part of the parking is dedicated to the building parking with the markets. So they don't have to utilize the service parking. Visit parking and look at the other relationships with Zid Park and such a success that they have been. Currently they have 16 spaces in our thought. It's one of the most successful Zid Park locations they want the same 16, but we will probably have six to eight Zid cars also accommodate the low-daint. And the use is phenomenal. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? We're done. May I have a motion please? I should approve the project with Zid Park. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I know that you will continue to work with the community, with the traffic plans, etc. Good. Who did that? Calling BOA 591761 1170 soldiers field road. The system install one freestanding sign for CVS corporation 15 feet overall height. Violation dotical 51 section 55. Preestanding sign uses for bin. Name and address for the record place. Peter Rasucci 25 to fellow road swan scum Massachusetts. I'll give it back. No. Green jacket. There's been no BRA decisions. There's recommendations to BRA recommendations. Not in this case, though. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Name and address on the record. I'm Gary Boldock with point signs 125 Samuel Barnett Boulevard, New Bedford, Massachusetts. We're the sign contractor working with CVS. I don't think we got either. Sure. It's Peter Rasucci 25 to fellow road swan scum Massachusetts and Anthony Kaposi also with the CVS. So this is for a freestanding sign. Tell us about the dimensions. Sure. So we have actually worked with the BRA. The height listed on that sign is not accurate. We received stamped approval from the BRA. Work closely with them to put on the record. Please, what is the height of the sign? Sure. Absolutely. The height of the sign is five foot ten inches high. And the width has a foundation of about 12 feet long with the visible part of the sign about ten foot ten inches wide. And this will be coming in from soldiers field road. It will be perpendicular to soldiers. It will be correct. I'm allowing perpendicular to the road. So visibility both going east and west on soldiers field road. We worked with the BRA to find a location on our property that would allow us to accurately and safely identify the location. Without making any alterations to the beautification of the area as well. We went to the lengths of building a mock sign for them to come out in view from the road so they could see where it would be situated. And we did receive a stamped approval on those plans. And this will be the only sign for the building. This is the only sign on the building. Right now we do not have a sign that is identifying the businesses inside. How are the plans for the design? Drawings are adequate. How many businesses will actually be identified? Right now the businesses in there are WBZ TV, WSBK TV, WBZ AM radio and CBS Boston.com are digital. So you are all the audience? We are all affiliates of CBS. Correct. I'm not looking at the plan. So is this 15 feet high? It is not 15 feet high. We came through an agreement with the BRA that the high, the approved final designs of the height would be five foot ten inches. I will sign itself. Correct. But what is the height to the bottom of the sign? Where? And the responsibility. That's what I'm trying to say. So from the ground up. The entire sign is five foot ten. Right, five foot ten. This tall. Okay. And it will only contain the logo and Boston, CBS Boston. Correct. As you can see in the designs there you have CBS Boston which is our parent company and the businesses that fall underneath that umbrella. Any other questions on the board? Does anybody here just give us a board of this board? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Warren O'Reilly we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin McLaughlin from Councilor Siamol's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, member of the board, Annabelle Gomez, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody here not position? Any other motion please? Motion to approve. Second. All in favour? All right, aye. Any opposed? Ms. Buzani, you mark the plans that it's five foot ten. I have. Thank you. Motion carries. You're all set good luck. Thank you. Thank you. There's now one ten. I'm going to call the 1130 cases. Madam Chair, we do have one for the record. I'm going to call in. BOA 60137053 Brookside Avenue. We have a letter here today with drawing. I'm making denial without prejudice. Make a motion. 30 second. All those in favour? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. The first four cases. BOA 463157202 Maverick Street. BOA 463164208 Maverick Street. BOA 463162210 Maverick Street. BOA 463160212 Maverick Street. This is for 202 Maverick Street. We're buying a lot with 206 Maverick Street. To create 8887 square feet lot. Directly four story 23 unit multi-family dwelling with parking beneath the 20 vehicles. The violations are Article 53 Section 8. MFR has been in a 3F 2000 sub-district. Article 53 Section 9. Dimensional regulation. The applicable and registered residential sub-district. Article 53 Section 9. A height is excessive. Article 53. A lot of number of stories has been exceeded. Article 53 Section 9. Lot area is insufficient. Article 53 Section 9. Lot area ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9. Side yacht is insufficient. Article 53 Section 52. Roof structure is restrictions. Article 53 Section 56. Austria parking is insufficient. Number of spaces. Non-proposed and handicapped spaces on plan. Article 53 Section 56. Austria parking. Required maneuverability. An Article 80. Section 88. A small project reveal. This is for 208 Maverick Street. This is the right easement over 208 to 10 and 212 Maverick Street for parking associated with 202 Maverick Street. Violation Article 53 Section 9. Institutional space per unit. This is food. This is the two 10 Maverick Street. This is the providing easement over 208 to 10 and 212 with 212 Maverick Street. Violation Article 53 Section 9. Institutional space grinding of an easement on 202 Maverick Street. This is for 212. This is the providing easement over 208 to 10 and 212. We're parking associated with 200 Maverick Street. Violations. Article 53 Section 9. Institutional space. Name and address of the record place. Good afternoon Madam Chairwoman, members of the Board Richard Lins, 1216 Bennington Street. East Boston on behalf of the petitioner. East Boston property management. Development with me is Phil Horesco, who is the architect for the project as well as Matthew Newman, who is the principal of the development entity owning the property. Madam Chairwoman, this is a proposal to demolish three buildings located in the Jeffries Point neighborhood at the corner of Frankfort and Maverick Street. The three uses that are presently at the site include an auto repair ship garage. A commercial building that's presently being used as a church. And a multi-family dwelling that is in desperate need of repair. The proposal here would be to demolish all three of those buildings, combine the lots. And at this point to erect a 20 unit multi-family dwelling. By way of brief background from the neighborhood's perspective, this project has received the benefit of an extensive and exhaustive community process that's stand the course of 18 months. There were 10 community meetings in total with two separate community groups as well as numerous meetings with the butters. And because this project is subject to Article 80 small project review, the BRA required meeting through the sponsor by the Bosphory Development Authority. Can you speak to then the breakdown of the units, the unit sizes? Sure. Of the 20 units, 10 of them are three bedrooms. Six of them are two bedrooms, four of them are one bedroom. The range for the sizes is 650 to 700 square feet for the one. 800 square feet for the two bedrooms. And a thousand 80 to roughly 1400 square feet for the three bedrooms, which includes the pen houses on the upper level. And then there are roof deck. There is a roof deck that is proposed and I can let Mr. Horesco speak to the roof deck issue. I think it's important for context as to how we got there based upon the community process that we've had. I think that the input that we heard from the community has been the driving force behind the design that's before the board today. Although the petition does talk about 23 units, the number of units that were submitted in the BRA were 20. With at least 21 parking spaces, although we do commit to having at least one parking space per unit. The logic did start out Madam Chair. So, Mr. Spazani have the most recent plans. He does. Okay. Tell us about that roof deck. Is it accessible to all units or is it accessible to several number of units? The roof deck is accessible to all the units. There are two areas along Frankfurt Street at the north end of the property. And they're divided by a corridor. The access is from an elevator lobby out to the corridor for the front roof deck. It's a roof terrace. We expect to plant it extensively, especially the edge between the butter and our property. And then there's a rear roof terrace as well as there are terraces that align the rooftop along Frankfurt and along Maverick Street that are singularly for the two penthouse units. So, they're private terraces, right? Is there a roof deck? Pardon me? Let's the access the roof deck. Is it by hatch? No, no. There's a stairway that we need two means of egress to this because it's shared by all the units. So, there's a stair on the end. I should point out that the stair on the end is sloping down. It's set away from the immediate end of the building by seven feet. And then it has a shallow sloped roof up to the landing, which is at full height. And that is the stair itself is 21 feet away from the edge of the roof. Please tell us about access to the parking because you have three requests for right-of-way. Yes, down chair. So, the proposed parking would be below the building. We do show 21 spaces on the plan. I do note in one of the citations for the refusal letter referencing handicap parking space. I believe that with the configuration that we're showing, we're showing full size parking spaces as well as more than one per unit. That can be adjusted appropriately. And I understand Mr. Horasco has taken a look at that plan and that can be met easily. The access would be from McKayplace behind several other buildings, which are also owned in common with the same developer of these parcels here. And the proposed easement would create a driveway into the building with the gentle slope going into the building under the building for underground access. In addition to that, there would be substantial improvements made to the rear of the property as well as buffering, screening, etc. as well as improvements to the courtyard area for the existing buildings that exist along Maverick Street. So, obviously, trash and recycling will be in the ramp space that he down into the garage. There is a portion of it under the ramp space. There is space that we can carve out for trash and recycling. There's additional space located in the garage that we can use for a combination of bike storage, trash and recycling as well. Okay. And how many of these units will be affordable? So, under the IDP policy, three of these units, 13% of the total number of units that we've presented to the BRA would be affordable. And then, proposing 21 parking spaces, what is required under the zoning? So, because we're in excess of 10 units, even though this is Article Lady, Article Lady's small project, the 20 units total, if you took a flat number, an Article 53 of the two spaces per unit for the IDP units at the .7. Okay. And your violation is FAR, height and the number of stories. Can you give us information on that? Sure. I'll take them in reverse order. Number of stories is violated because of the proposed penthouse that we're proposing two units above the top level. When this project was originally presented to the community, it was shown as a four-story building, a full four-story building with 28 units and a restaurant. One of the concerns that we heard from the neighborhood was that the building and its appearance from the original design did not fit with the adjoining properties, which are each triple decker's with exposed foundations. We went back to the drawing board and reworked this plan to make the main building consistent with a height, scope, scale, design, architecture with the surrounding buildings both along Maverick Street and Frankfurt Street as well. The exchange, one of the requests that was early on in this process was that we clad the building in brick. As the tradeoff for that, we proposed keeping two penthouse units in order to offset the cost of making this entirely brick. So the number of stories is? The number of stories would be four with the penthouse. Three. Three, correct. And the height I'm assuming is the... The five-ish to the top of the main building and then 44 to the top of the penthouse. Penthouse is our setback substantially from both the Maverick and Frankfurt Street setbacks in addition. And again, one of the requests that were made through the community process was to set the penthouse further towards Maverick Street and move them away from the butter along Frankfurt Street. Total FAR I have as 2.69 is what's proposed. What zoning district is this? This sits in the 3F2000 district. I would indicate that the border to the... Rear of the property that we're proposing is actually the MFR district. So we're separated. Our property boundary separates the MFR. So you're on the edge. We're on the edge. Okay. How do the plans for this design? Drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board of the committee, from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go record and support. And the reason is because they have made changes, numerous changes through the community process. This project had a minimum of 12 community meetings, including two article 80 and in about its meetings. They also presented two different civic groups. The community process started back in 2014. They presented to the Geophrys point-able association and the planning and zoning subcommittee. The changes requested by this group were that they removed the retail space restaurant and also reduced the units from 28 to 23 units. Also, they asked for addition of parking to the proposal. At the beginning of 2015, the agovsry citizen's association was reactivated. We as a developer to present to this group, which they did. After this large community process, some other changes were made based on the rights of others request. Some of those changes were to move the building, which was right at the property line. The developers moved the building. Ten additional feet from the property line. And that's a total 13 feet from the agovsry building. The number of units, again, were reduced from 23 to 20. The developers have agreed to not use file driving, per resident's request. Also, the next door of the water was concerned about the pen house being too close to her property. The developers have moved it away from her property in Frankfurt Street to the other side on Marick Street. Lastly, the units have been changed from rental to condos for residents' request. And also, the residents have asked for the use of brick and the developers have agreed to do so. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon, members of the board. Sal with 12th屋, I'm the council representative, me, Spawson. I think you know me by now that I come up here and I will take a position on a case, particularly if it's a controversial case in my neighborhood. As you know, many years, and you heard me say this before, there was no development going on in Spawson. So finally, we have development happen. And it hasn't been easy for some of the long time folks in Spawson, someone who are here today that are opposed to this project. Some of the newcomers that are living in Spawson now, like the project. So as a city council, you're trying to do it with the best of the neighborhood. And I look at this project and this developer, they worked with the neighborhood. They really did. And for me, I support this project because there's a huge possible land that's primarily on some just bought it across the street. Because some of these are butters right here. And I think this is a perfect president for that possible land. We have the underground parking. There's some development in the east boss in the very now that we have where the parking is on the first level. I'll be honest, I really don't like it. Here, they have the parking underneath. They stay with three families on three levels. They push it back. The penthouse of the back so you can't see it. They get rid of a garage that that corner was which is a church now used to be a bar because all kinds of problems in that neighborhood. The three family of mavericks trees disgusting. This will improve that whole neighborhood. This is a good project. And that's why I'm here today. A little disappointed. I wish the restaurant was still there because I think the restaurant has a lot to a neighborhood, particularly a walkie-naip. But this is closer to tea. So people that will in their condos. So they were invested in that neighborhood. And they agreed to go to condos because I had concerns originally when they wanted to do rentals. So I think this is a good project. And I'm here to go on record and support this project. So thank you for your time. Good afternoon, my name is Chairman, members of the board. My name is Phil Cohen. I work at the Boston Red Devonment Authority. This is my first time speaking in front of the board. So you may not know me yet. I did have the pleasure of attending three of the 12 meetings that were out in the community. Beary hosted two of them. The project went through an extensive process for Article 80, Small Project Review. They filed on December 11th of 2015. We hosted the first public meeting on January 21st and the second on April 19th. They were approved unanimously by our board on July 14th. So several months later, after many conversations with the community. Those conversations seemed to concentrate on some of the things that Claudia just mentioned. I'd like to point out the 11 foot shift in that picture from the Abundant Property to 202 Maverick. That was a point of discussion. Also the pen houses were moved. We wanted to make sure that the three stories of 202 Maverick was the same size as the Abundant Properties. The change from rental to ownership was something that was discussed in the community. Also the promise not to use destructive techniques like hammer piles for construction. It was something that I heard the community really cared about. So the be areas of this project. I'm happy to hear to speak to you today. Thank you and welcome. Thank you. Madam Chair, we Mr. Board of Minor, better to present in the carpentry. We'd like to welcome the support of this project. Yes, Madam Chair. Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Gary Walker, electrical workers, local wind-on-threaders. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, I'm in the board. I'm representing a vice chair of JPA and A. When this project started, it has been engaged in community support. It also has the support we brought in the Boston Preservation Alliance for their feedback to match the vernacular of the community within the area. It is a very special area near Gov Street with the brick facades. They've done progressive design with an interesting corner unit and have also added green scape to the roof, which is not normally done in our area. As Sal mentioned, this area is shifting and we are getting a lot of real estate portfolios for investment for college students. And so we think that this is a great proposal because it also brings in ownership stake with condos. And as mentioned, this project has been very wrong and has shifted significantly. And that is in direct response to the community concerns from both organizations. Can you put your name and address on the record, please? I'm sorry. Can you put your name and address on the record, please? Absolutely. Meg Hammond, 418 Sumner Street, East Boston, Mass. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Margaret Farmer and I am co-chair of the Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association, where the Neighborhood Association, which first started with this particular project. We went through five public meetings, I believe, for of whom we're through our Planning and Zoning Committee, which is meant to... Sorry, ma'am. Can you just summarize quickly your support because I think everybody else is kind of laid out the process. Okay. I'll include my address, pardon me. I'm at a 241 Webster Street and again, my name is Margaret Farmer. It's rare that we get everything that we ask for and in this instance, we didn't. They moved off the boundary line, they've lowered the roof, they agreed to a street scape that was activated, they agreed to a heated driveway because of snow concerns. This has been a long process and I think that has been a long process because we wanted what we wanted and we were going to get it. And now we have. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Josh Ross Vitter. I'm at 256 Maristra, which is outside Jeffries Point, but still in the East Boston neighborhood, about 10 minute walk. I'm just real quickly. I'm in support of the project, like the design, like that is at least one to one parking. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Matthew Varison. I live at 124 Coleridge Street in Orient Heights, but during the pendency of this project, I lived at 494 Sumner Street. And I was on the board of the Jeffries Point neighborhood association. I'd like to echo the comments made by Margaret Farmer and support this project. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Saul Perlera. I live at 150 Orleans Street. I'm also a business owner in East Boston and I'm here in support of this project. Thank you. Okay. Okay, we have to hold on. We are out of tape time. So we have to take a five minute break so the technology staff in the back can get us up and running. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You It's only building into the back of the field. It's in session. Just remind us. The cell phone should be off and no conversations in the room. If you could please make sure that you put your name and address on the record. And please try not to repeat what somebody ahead of you has said. That will help us ski fun schedule here. So we went the middle of here in the cases related to Maverick Street. We had heard those who are in support. Anybody here is in opposition? One thing I have on support I submitted just for the record. 34 letters in support as well as a letter from Senator Joseph Boncourt in support. And the letter from the Boston Preservation Alliance in eager support and spread. Okay, thank you. And if people are here in opposition, please line up behind the podium. And again, please do not repeat what somebody ahead of you has already said. Go ahead, your name and address. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have to the council out loud, Michael Flerty. Due to the ongoing concerns of residents and neighbors at this particular point, the councilor will stay with the neighbors and cannot support the proposal at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, I'm moving in. Members of the board. My name is Jack Scalcioni. I live in 36 Frankfurt Street, is Boston. The chairman of the Ghost Street Citizens Association. This is the area neighborhood association in which this project resides. After two project presentations, the Ghost Street Association membership that includes a combination of a buttis and residents voted 24 to 1 against this project. Because of the project density and size, the utilizes all the plots for footage and that there are no developer willingness to discuss and negotiate any project downsizes. We find this a coincidence because two members of this development team have negotiated with an adjacent neighborhood organization on. Excuse me, sir. Yes. So your concern is density and size. Correct. Thank you. And. And please, is there anything related to the zoning? Anything related to this, if it's traffic, those are the kinds of things I want to hear about. Okay. Density and size is what I've heard so far. Well, we also have a considerable amount of people that are against this and I have it on record of who they are if you want to. Sure. If you ask some questions. But as far as the density and the size is all I can talk about at this point in time. And if you'd like to submit something in the record you can, we will take that. I have something here for you. Yes. Thank you. But I just want to say that there have been numerous meetings which has been said before. There's been two BRA meetings, which is a little unusual for a project of a problem. Neighborhood Services has an embedded meeting, which is a little unusual on a BRA project of which 40 of butters and residents came to and were against the size and density of the project. Thank you. Can I hear from somebody else? I have here a sign petition by 132 residents and the butters that are against the size and density of this project. Thank you. Thank you. And we know you will consider the significance of this project in the negativity of this office. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairperson, my name is John Renaro. I'm a director of butter. I live at 220 in Maverick Street. I have something prepared that I think should be heard. Some of it is repetitive but it will move along very quickly. Can you just put two things. First, tell us the highlights of your concern, okay? Because that way we can focus on what we need and if you want to submit anything into the record you can. This will only take a couple of minutes. Okay. This project should not be approved here today. For it's clearly not in the best interest of the neighborhood and it's foundries that have been here for many generations. We are in the neighborhood of three decades with on street parking. It don't blend in. We believe that it's too dense. It has 20 units and in time would house too many people. They, the other side, has cleverly presented it as taken away an eye sore and providing much needed housing. With 20 parking spaces under the bill. These parking spaces we say with much conviction will be underused. The residents will find it more convenient to park on the street. They will have resident stickers. They will take away already scarce on street parking spaces. The double lane entrance and exit will be in McCabe Place. The school bus route to the Dom McCabe School. The driveway will pass behind three buildings, taken away three back yards. These buildings are owned by the developer and have been mismanaged, over-occupied for a long time, and have received many, many violations. That's not true, Madam Chair. Big of a marker. The garage itself will be restricting and difficult to get in and out of. The Gold Street Association will welcome a plan that will beautify the area and provide needed housing. It's not like one such as this. It's over the top. Just too many units. That time will be over-occupied by short-term tenants. Our owners will get the most out of it, leave it to be replaced by others like themselves. Our neighborhood should not be taken advantage of. It's where we want to stay and live well than turn over our houses to family members. This development is not worthy of approval because it is just not the right thing to do to people like us. Thank you very much. So far I've heard about density. Thank you. So hold on, hold on. I've heard about density. I've heard about size. I've heard about parking. I've heard about the project being contextual. Is there anything more? Once you put your name and address on the record, is there anything more you can add to that? Absolutely, Madam Chairman. Okay, so keep in short. My name is Gina Scalcioni. I'm the president of the Gold Street Association. The reason why I'm here today is basically to discuss the Donumay Kay School, the Early Learning Center and the danger of the children that are walkers that are coming from Maverick Street, Goldadmi Kay Place, and go to the school on the sidewalk. And most of the time they be on that side where the driveway, double driveway comes out. That is very, very dangerous and a very big concern to me. Also the McKay Place is a one way for all the buses that are coming through from Maverick Street to McKay Place if you look at the plans and go in the back because children have breakfast there in the morning. And the buses stack up to lefty children out orderly so that nobody gets lost and nobody gets hurt. So the buses back up to the Kay Place, sometime all the way down Maverick Street to Gold Street. There are 10 buses. There are five minivan with special need children. The early learning center sets a little early in the morning. They also have four or five buses. And also there are at least 50 teachers that park at the McKay Place. Okay, thank you. That's not enough. So I like to speak on the density of it. It doesn't conform with the neighborhood. The neighborhood overwhelmingly opposed it and I've been to every meeting and the city of Boston was there. There was one person in favor at the about this meeting. I want you to let it go on the bracket. The BRA held it off as long as they could until they hire a lobbyist. An ex-Senator entering Petro Salli to do the lobbying. This is not right. We're asking the board. This is not right. I just need you and everybody else. We do not want to wander. Okay, so I have a number of issues. Please let the lady behind you talk about additional information that will help us. Okay. Okay. And thank you for bringing up the issue about the school. Also I want you to know that the developer is a slum law. He has a promise everywhere. Okay, enough. Well, no, you need to know. I need to hear from the next person what additional information can you give us? Okay, Madam Chairman. My name is Andifeo. I've lived on Faudi True Frankfurt Street. I'm in a butter to this new project. My family's lived there for maybe over 100 years. And East Fossil is overcrowded down. We don't need another monstrous building. The city is going to be destroyed and overcrowded. They could take me over a half hour just to get out of East Fossil because of traffic. And this will bring new traffic. And she mentioned the decay place so I won't go through that again. I have a three family attached house. A nice proposal for me would be if they put two on Frankfurt Street, three on Maverick Street would give them 15 units. I'm sure Mr. Newman would make good money on that also. Okay. We've been against this proposal from the beginning. And politicians don't listen to us. The only time we see them is when they're going to raise taxes, they want to vote. And if they, even the BRA steps in the back, I don't know why the architect kind of come up with something different. This is two monstrous. Yes, that's it. And please the rest of you try not to try my patience. Okay. I have a long list of issues here. We have other people waiting to present their cases. So please be on point. Okay. My name is Amelia DeFail. I live at 75 Move Back Street. I am totally opposed to this project. I'm going to try to remember. Everyone has already said what I wanted to say. I thank you. I am concerned about the welfare of the people of the neighborhood where we are over developing this area. We have other projects that are coming up that we are going to be overwhelmed with the people and where we don't have the protection of EMT, ambulance. We only have one ambulance for our area. And my concern is that if we have an emergency, which we did have an emergency on our street a couple of months ago, where we had a very young person in her 30s have a stroke. And with that being said, it took over 35 minutes for the ambulance to arrive. Thank you. Thank you. I have my development. I have my development. We're looking at probably over an hour. And that's my concern is for the police to arrive when they don't arrive, when you call them for an emergency, EMT to arrive, and then fire. So having all of this development, and then I heard someone like chime in, college students, I am just totally against it. We don't have a college in this area. All we have is elementary, high school, and we don't even have a church in our area anymore. Okay. I was taken down. So sorry you're the last one. I have a position. Thank you. You're the last one. I know you can talk quickly and be on the bond point. My name is Albert Farrah. F-A-R-R-R-A-H. I'm an attorney with offices at 321 Columbus Avenue here in Boston. I represent Grace Giacini, who is the owner of 15 Frankfurt Street. She is a direct butter to this project and will undeniably be profoundly affected, not only over the next three or four years during construction if you see fit to approve this variance, but thereafter. Your charge as members of the board, and I'm sure all of you realize this, is to make refining. We are very aware of what they are. Can you please tell us what your concerns are? I'm sorry. You need to find hardship. You need to find that the variance that you're going to grant is the minimum variance that satisfies, that can be granted to satisfy the code, and you need to find special circumstances affecting this property that don't affect other properties. You have heard today that this developer purchased this property in 2013. I have somewhere here a copy of this deed that I would like to submit for the record with your permission. It's axiomatic in the law. And I want to talk about the variance itself. It's axiomatic in the law that a petitioner cannot create his own hardship. Each of you, if you approve this variance, will have to sign a decision where you make a finding that this gentleman suffered hardship. When you know that that's not true, it does not comport with the facts of this case. In addition, you have heard about the dozen or so variances that he is asking for. And you have heard about parking that is less than half of what the zoning code calls for. And FAR that is over two and a half times what the zoning code calls for, height that is over 12 feet above what is approved here. And in good conscience, none of you can sign the decision saying this is the minimum variance that is permissible under the law. Let me find the deed with your permission. And then I will sit down. I think you know how I feel. Yes, thank you. And put that into the record. And can you get that from him, please? Thank you. For the record, this is a between fee dated July 30, 2013, from a treasure coin to the East West Imagination Development LLC. Can they, the property that Mr. Lin tells you now, they want to not doubt. My clients are not opposed to the development, but it is not your job to be right for zoning code. It's your job. Thank you very much. Mr. Lin, I think we've heard a lot about a number of these issues that you've already presented. What I'm interested in is the traffic fees related to the McKay School. If you can give us some information on that. Sure. So very early on in this process, where members who spoke today in opposition participated in this, the question was raised as to utilization of McKay place and whether that was appropriate. I think the first question that was raised was whether or not that was a public way it is. I just reviewed that with the streets book of the city of Boston, the EBW, it is a public way and open accessible to the public. The second issue that was raised was the utilization of McKay place by the McKay School and the Boston public schools for school buses. It was pointed out to us and having been in that neighborhood many times, I've seen the buses myself that they used McKay place to queue before they entered the school yard for either pickup or drop off. Our response to that was simple. We're not looking to prevent or stop the Boston public schools from utilizing McKay place and I think the McKay place issues become the red herring for most of the opposition. I don't want to be super technical favorite state law that you cannot block a public way because emergency vehicles always have a right of access. So the fact that school buses are blocking McKay place really doesn't suggest that this development isn't appropriate. It more or less suggests that the school department may need to revisit utilization of McKay place. One way street? Well, there is property on McKay place beyond our property and therefore they have a right of access in the University of Maverick Street. The school buses use it for one way to enter the school yard. However, it's not identified as being either one way or two way. Okay, thank you. Now, before we make a decision, I just want to ask all of you to exit quietly. We have four other cases where applicants are patiently waiting and so that's my request to you. Okay, we've heard the merits of the case. We've heard the opposition. I need a motion. I'll just move to a project with the shooting theory design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. That was the warrant. Calling B-O-A-5511-04. Nine greed street. This is adding a spiral staircase from basement to first floor and adding additional living space in the basement. Unit one must meet current fire protection and building code. Violation Article 53 Section 12. Floody A ratio is excessive. They have an address for the record, please. Attorney Peter Matino for Frank Deepasplowley who is the owner of nine greed street and this condominium unit. He cannot be here this afternoon because he is ill and is in Florida. The property manager of Bruce Alvar is here sitting with me. We'd like to go forward with the occasion. So, tell us again, what first, why you would defer second, what you propose and how it has changed. I'm sorry, I didn't hear your question. I'm sorry. This project was deferred before. Why was it deferred and what has happened in the meantime? The reason it was deferred was Mr. Deepasqually was ill and could not be present. And so that was one reason for the deferment. The other part of the reason of the deferment was we were trying to work with the other unit owner who's opposed this project condominium unit number three. This is a three unit building. My client owns unit one and two and there's a tenant on unit three who's been opposed to the project. We had thought that maybe we'd be able to work out some resolution to their objection to this variance. I'm sorry? We have not. Okay. And so what was the proposal again? The proposal is basically just a simple one. Unit one, the condominium unit one is made up of both a first floor and a basement floor. We requested that a spiral staircase be installed to link the two floors together to make it all one condominium unit. The catalyst about the basement. What's proposed for the basement? Nothing other than there's going to be a, that staircase is going to be go between the two units. There's no, as well as it'll be brought up to code. I think there was a violation of the smoke detector so we have to bring the basement unit up to code. For some reason when the alterations were done to the building and the building permit was issued for whatever reasons the basement was excluded somehow. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Dr. Akkwik. Dr. Akkwik, is the basement commonly utilizing the bedroom shown in the one the drones? I believe they are. And at this time there was a tenant in that unit. There was a violation by that. That tenant is moving out. That tenant will be vacating on a before October 31st. And as part of dealing with this violation, the building inspector's office actually suggested that this unit should be made as to one condominium unit so that he's not renting a separate unit in the basement. So that's part of the reason it is for the staircase to make this condominium unit one all inclusive of the first floor in the basement. So Mr. Pazani is the floor to ceiling height and everything in place for that basement unit? Well, the floor to ceiling height and the basement is listed at 7 foot 1-half inch. But this is pretty family dwelling. Correct. I don't believe we've got the code was 7 feet when they looked it up another. At the city hall. At the time that this was renovated. When was this renovated? It was renovated in 2005 to July 24, 2005. That's the plans that were certified and agreed upon by the city of Boston when this was. And that came before us. Yes, I believe it did because it would have had to go through the building inspector's office because this was a three family. This was a three family dwelling that was converted to a three unit condominium and it had to go through all of the permitting through inspection services. It's open. Come to us necessarily. The issue is that you want to install a circular stair to connect the basement to the first floor. Correct. Everything the building department wanted in it accepted went over. The reason was that it got denied was because of the floor space being over the group as the letter that they sent. That was the violation that was listed. Is anybody here to speak and support? Is anybody here in opposition? Excuse me. Somebody from the elected official office? Madam Chair, members of the board of the board of the board of the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. Based on the coming early process which was in about this meeting, we can support this proposal. The homeowners on the third floor are against this and we ask them to work together but they haven't come to any consensus. That's all the yet. Thank you. Judy. We will support it but we ask them to continue working with those folks. Madam, put your name and address on the record. You've heard me talk to those east bosses and people. Please try and keep it to the point so we understand clearly what your opposition is based on. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you board members for your attention. My name is Meredith Fine. I'm an attorney at 46 Middle Street in Gloucester. I represent Richard Barna, the owner of Unit 3 in this condominium. Mr. Barna is ill and could not be here today. The applicant has. Yes, summarize for us what the issue is. The applicant has no right whatsoever to make this application. The applicant who is the owner of the unit, Mr. Albert is merely the property manager. But the owner of the other two units is named Frank Deepas-Gwally. He has violated numerous fiduciary duties among them that's relevant here is that he cannot make a change in the condominium, particularly one that affects the percentage ownership without Mr. Barna's approval. They literally have no right to be before you. I have other concerns. Please summarize your concerns. The people have been living in the basement illegally for many years. It's an unsafe condition. Mr. Barna has asked over and over and over to have the people evicted from that basement unit. There's been no progress on it at all. Mr. Barna has made many requests of Mr. Deepas-Gwally for how those that building is managed until extremely recently. Basically until this application he couldn't get a foot in the door. So Mr. Barna has been much oppressed by Mr. Deepas-Gwally's management of this building. Mr. Deepas-Gwally still treats it as though he owns it as an apartment building and not as a condominium. And the condominium documents make it merely clear that Mr. Barna's approval is required for this application. Thank you very much. Thank you. May I respond? How do you put it? Quickly. First of all, we have every right to file this application. The issue that she's raising our issues that would be handled privately within the condominium. So why hasn't it? Because we've tried to work it out. We're not changing. We disagree with her interpretation of the condo docs. We are not changing. Living space or area percentages of the units. Unit one is made up of both the unit one and the basement. I have the plan of the condominium if you'd like to see it. So there's no change in percentage use. Mr. Deepas-Gwally owns two-thirds of this building anyway, but he owns unit one, which is made up of 1,640 square feet. He owns unit two, which is made up of 956 square feet. None of that changes by this renovation. It's just adding an access for the two floors to be able to move between the two floors. That condominium is defined as his master deep, and it's still in there. So what I'm telling you is that her argument is completely irrelevant to this process. If she wants to, you know, sue us or sue the condominium association. Assume us to be Ms. Gwally for whatever reasons that she feels that we're in breach of the condo documents. That's a different issue that's not before you. Okay, thank you. And please have a seat. This is not a conversation. Thank you. Okay. So here we are. We are having a motion, please. Motion for denial. Is there a second? Last second. All those in favor? I have. Any opposed? Motion carries. The request has been denied. 570-747-104 Brookley Road. A new multi-family residence on an empty lot. The violation of Article 55 Section 9. Laudier area for additional dwelling unit is insufficient. Name and address further. Doug Steffanoff, 93F Street. I come before you, the relatively simple project. This is a proposed three family district. The only violation that I have is I'm shy 205 square feet. This was postponed to do more community work. We've done extensive community work with the Stony Brook Neighborhood Association as well as the J.P. Neighborhood Council. I've taken input from the neighbors who actually have made some design improvements. We've incorporated those into the project and we think it's pretty nice. Okay. How are the plans for Mr. Desan? Dr. Aligret. Any questions? Thank you. Anybody here to speak in support of this? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Julianne Dareday, we'd like to go on record and support. This is completed the community process. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan. I'd be happy to sit down to that large, Michael Flerty. Councilor Degon record and support. My name is Catherine Meisenheimer and I live at 297-299 Forest Hills Street, which is the Director of Butter on the Corner, and I'm here to support the proposal. Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Be our A.P. design review. I'll listen favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, overhunch. Calling B.O.A. 544-302-222-Hendrie Street. This is a curb cut for a resident driveway on Austria-Packe for two cars. Violation is Article 65, Section 41. Austria-Packe and Requiem is Article 65, Section 9. Open space and sufficient. Section 65, Section 9. Side-yard violation. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Georgina Alfonseca, 22-Hendrie Street, doorchester. Why you will defer the last time? Because I needed to provide designs or drawings that show two cars. It can be accommodated on space. Have they been submitted? Yes. How are the plans for Mr. Pesani? The meantime is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Joe McGeckeren, City Councilor Frank Baker's Office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, all Sullivan. We have City Councilor Abba, Michael Plarrity, Councilor DeVega, and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? How are the plans for Mr. Pesani? Drawing to read it quickly. Why do you show three spaces instead of two? Because the designer has said that I could speak with my neighbor and I have asked for a variance for the fence if needed. So he decided to put it in. But you're only asking for two. Yes. Make a motion to grant relief for two spaces. Second. Second. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all second. Thank you. Drawing the OA-584-990-61 to 63 dust in street. This is parking for two residential vehicles, the Violet Sizzotical 51-6 to 56. Last key parking requirements. Proposed design of the space is less than 18 feet. Name it address for the record please. Jim McGuire 61 dust in street, Brighton, Massachusetts. I'm Madam Chair and members of the Board. I'm requesting a couple of additional parking spots. At the rear of my- Why would we defer the last time? Well, because the drawing is awesome to proper. So these are the new drawings that you've submitted. Yes. Yes. How would the plans Mr. Desonee? If the drives are adequate, he solved the problem by coming off of God in the street. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board. John Ellison from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Warren O'Reilly, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Kevin McGuire from Councilor C. Amos Office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the Board. Annabelle Gomes from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion please? Or should we vote for the vote? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Good presentation. Thank you. Meeting is adjourned. We're adjourned.