 All right. All right. Good evening, everyone. The city of Boston is only board of a pure hearing for July 20, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, lost in.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. We'll call. Good evening, Madam Chair, President. Good evening, Ms. Betaprasa. Good evening, Madam Chair, President. Good evening. I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Yes, we will start with the hearings for 5 p.m. First case is BOA 146 149 01. The address being 44 Brooks Street is the applicant and other represent the president. We have Mr. Martinez, Hector Martinez or someone representing him. Yes, I represent. Okay, are you are you the applicant? I have to. Okay, the applicant. Great. Can you introduce yourself, put your name and address into the record and then just let us know what relief you're seeking. And on the middle of Hector Martinez. A 44 Brooks Street. Is someone translating for him? Yes, I can hear your translating. Thank you. Okay, he just went mute. Mr. Martinez, we actually need you to present your case. Okay, sorry, but we're here with Hector now. So I could possibly be standing here and what you present is in the case. Yeah, yeah, the case is only for the window. I scream. So it's just that I scream. Yeah, it's tick off. It's tick off. Yes, the person is only comprened. I just want to get it. And it's for take out. And then we will be the vice. I'm a premier. And the community, for example, the house. Even the business, the person that I was working with, the other person. And I think that's why I think it's not a big deal. I think it's not a big deal. It's not a big deal. It's not a big deal. So it benefits to me. And it also benefits the community who has another ice cream place close by. And also benefits and folks that I'm able to hire because of that. Okay. Any questions. From the board. I have no questions. Pretty straightforward. I have a question. I have a question. Yes. Madam chair members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office likes to defer to the judgment of the board. At this time, our office is unaware of any concerns related to this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. And then chair, if you could, I don't know if we could give testimony on behalf of each lady. Steve were also serving as actors translators, but if that's possible, we could also provide some testimony. And then we could also provide some testimony on behalf of each of the members of the board. And then we could also provide some testimony on behalf of each of the members of the board. And then we could also provide some testimony on behalf of each of the members of the board. Sure. Yeah. Go ahead. Thank you for that. So I'm Leo and I'm here with Gladys for part of the Nutradi ST team, which is a neighbor to neighbor support network. And he's Boston Hector's part of our network. And we appreciate him for everything he does to contribute to the community and fully support. You know, really the store in general who's been very friendly to folks. It's a very one one on place. Gladys, I don't know if you want to add to that too. So everything they serve is very good. And a lot of people go there and everyone enjoys it. We're in support of acting his application to further permits the size. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Hearing none may have motion. Is that a. May I have motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. I'm going to have a motion of approval. I'm going to have a motion of approval. I'm going to have a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Excellent. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better. Raza. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case. The first case. One, four, one. Six, three, two, seven. The address of nine, 64 Saratope Street. Is the applicant and all their representative president. Yes, this is attorney Britain Munson, representing the applicant. Great. Can you tell us what relief you're seeking? Of course. So we are looking at the restaurant has an existing patio space that they already use. Right there on the side of the building. And so they're looking to just put a essentially a canopy a little bit of a roof just off the side of the building to cover it from the elements things of that nature for their guests that are already using it. They've been using it for years now. And so they're just looking for a little structure to go right above it. Excellent. Any questions from the board? No questions. Thank you. Hearing none. May I have public testimony? Yes, Ben. Members of the board. Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looked at deferred to the judgment of this board. We have the applicant dispersed flyers out to a butters and no concerns were raised without deferred to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. We have no other raised hands. Okay. Would that may have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. We have a second. Second. Thank you. Miss Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Betta-Braza. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case of B.O.A. 148. 0844. The address being 500 boils in the street. It's the applicant and or their representative president. Yep. Daniel Brennan here. Okay. And what really heard you seeking. So this is a space over at 500 boils in street, formally a retail store, Talbitts. It's been subdivided by our landlord. And a piece of it is looking to become Starbucks coffee shop. We recently closed one over at 443 boils in. So we were looking for a replacement. And the restaurant take out use 36 a and I believe the restaurant use 37 are conditional. So that's why we're here before the board. Got it. So you close the one that's on that corner. I can't remember. Yeah, Berkeley and. Okay. Yeah. I just did. Straight forward. Any questions from the board. Hearing none. Man public testimony. Yes. Sorry. Madam Chair just give me one second. I'm sorry. Yes. At this time, the mayor's office elected to defer a judgment to the board. Our office conducted a butters meeting on April 4th with no community members and attendance. The applicant also reached out to the neighbor association of back bay. And the back bay association. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time. I would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands. No other raised hands. I'm raising his madam chair. Thank you. Hearing none. May I have a motion. Madam chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Better, Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case. B.O.A. 148. 08. Renon. The address of two park Plaza. Is the applicant and board the representative president. Yep. Daniel Brennan here for Starbucks coffee again. Okay. Same drill. Yep. So this one is on the corner of Park Plaza and Boyleston, right by the public gardens. We have a lot of other things. We have a lot of other things. It's currently a bull. A Mexican fast casual. They actually reached out to the Starbucks real estate team to get out of their lease. We recently. Closed another Starbucks close by in the transportation building. Over on Charles Street. I think it's zero. Charles Street or something like that. So we were looking for a replacement. And this is a good fit. We're looking for a replacement. We're looking for a replacement. And that's the reason we're looking for this replacement for this particular use. But because the original decision said for this petitioner only we're looking to remove that and have it for Starbucks. Excellent. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may. Yes. Madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. this proposal at this time. Thank you. Hi, this is Laura from Council President's Office. I would like to go on full support on behalf of Council President Flynn. And also for the last 500 bothersome street, we also are going on full support with that one as well. Thank you. Okay, would that may have a motion? I'm sure I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Just number each. Yeah. Better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thanks so much. Next we have case of B O A 144 7530. The address being 1250 FOILs in the street. Is the applicant and what they're representing the present? Anyone for a 1250 FOILs in street? Yes sir. Okay, can you state your name and address and just let us know what you're proposing? My name is Hashem. We're proposing like a voter trailer. A coconut Taylor combing. The 1250 FOILs in street. I'm sorry. I didn't catch what it was. Was like a voter trailer. A allocation of 1250 FOILs in street. Okay. And what are you serving? Are we serving like waffle and French crib with the middle east signature favors serving like high quality products or a customer with a bad mind of that economic needs of the community? Got it. Any questions from the board? No, no question at all. All right. Is that a public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. If it's time to Mayor's Office, I'd defer to the judge from this board. I have some background information in the community process. We have the applicant's flyer property owners within 300 feet and reach out to the Fenway Civic Association. We heard from some folks with some initial concerns with the applicant work to address and answer all those questions. Those of others have stated that they have no objections to the proposal at this time. Our office is unaware of any further concerns, but that will defer to the judgment board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No other raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Hearing none may I have a motion? I'd like to prefer a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bedabraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1467752. The address of 10 St Margaret Street. The applicant and the representative president. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. Attorney John Fulginian on behalf. The applicant. I'm joined today by Jim and Katie Murphy. Together with Chris Rue, who is their architect. Before I begin this presentation, I would like to remind the board that this proposal came before you in August of 2021. At that time, the project was approved with the provisional of no sidejacks violation. That provisional was justified. I'm very glad that we're here before you will be on this afternoon. At that time, the merpies were not represented by council and had a difficulty articulating the support they and the hardship. This proposal involves. They spent over a year looking for a read sense that time they spent over a year looking for redesign options that just wouldn't work and during that time. This is a matter of time. We have a few words and we'll have a few words. This is a three-minute statement. The number of the permit was diagnosed with a serious medical condition, which will require ongoing outpatient and in-patient treatment at Mount Auburn Hospital. Now, turning to the side addition, which is the reason we are here. At the early hearing, they didn't provide testimony from Travis Stewart, who is the butter where the addition will be located. in a two family zoning sub district. Additionally, they have, where this problem, when I say to the properties unique, they have a proposed cannabis delivery facility that will be is going to permanent right now directly behind their house. And that building, if you look at the your tablets, is basically a zero, very on setback. Looking at this neighborhood, you will see houses that are very tight. In fact, the building to the Murphy's right is approximately three feet from their house, from house to house, it's about to refeed. This addition, while requiring a setback violation to the lot line, separates the houses as there is a driveway of approximately 12 feet in between the two structures on the left side of the property. And this addition is only 168 feet and this living space is required for K, Tim, Jim and their four kids. When they first came to my office, I agreed with the original decision from the board. Communication was lacking and the whole kitchen I presented. The Murphy's have lived in this house for 27 years. Katie's parents had lived in this house prior to that. This is a house that she grew up in. They need to stay here for ongoing medical treatment. So you guys look at this house, it's a total of the three pair. If they were to sell it, they wouldn't be able to live in the glass in the area, which would really probably a distance suburb, which would seriously disrupt their treatment plans in the children's relationships. We hope today, the story will respectfully allow reconsideration with all the facts before you. I will at this point just turn over to Chris Strun to walk you through the plans for that nest and so this propel there was approved basically as is with the proviso, I'll have a no side yard setback and we're here just to address that today. I'm here for any questions and Chris Strun who's here to present plans. Thank you. Thank you, John. So basically what we're talking about, it's the garage itself would be about 10 foot six, wide by about 25 feet deep. On the second floor, there would be one additional bedroom, which would be about 10, 6 by 16. Happy to answer any other questions or die further if anybody has any specific. Madam Chair, I have a question just for clarification. Yes. So when I was reviewing a file, there was a letter saying that originally there was a side yard of three foot two from six inches. Is that still applicable? Yes, that's so if you go back to the landscape plan, that three foot two is preexisting on the right hand side. So that's the left side. Yes, yeah. Got it. So the three foot two is on the right hand side and then what is this thick cinches on the left hand? Correct, yes. So that little brown, you know, the little brown. The six inches. Okay, thanks for the clarification. I thought you had modified it. Okay, thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here, none. Can I have a public testimony, please? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor's office looked to defer to the judgment of this board. Backer information on the community process, our office, folks and the butters being on May 31st, understand it was a productive meeting where the applicant addressed questions and concerns that neighbors raised, that they went on to meet with the Civic Association, which is the McCormack Group, and they voted to support this proposal. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. We'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council of Frank Baker's office, we'd like to go on record and support the applicant today. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, a large Michael Flaherty, Council of Do-On-Record and Support. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, he and the Seattle Center for Council of Murphy's Office. The applicant completed a thorough community process and has support from direct to butters and neighbors. The councilor sent over a letter of support, but would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. I think the butter is on, is that right, Mr. Chair? Babes, yeah, I'm muted. Hi, yes. Yes, I'm Travis Stewart, A.C. Margaret Street, on the direct to butter. And I'm known to be in KD for well over a decade now. I'm in full support as the director of butter for this. And also from the civic as a board member of the McCormick Civic, we also support that too. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Phone call ended in 7163, you unmuted. Yes, thank you. My last name is Strom. I live directly across the street from Mr. Murphy, I've known his family for 30 years, going to the parents before him. And I just like to say, I'm in full support of his project. Thank you. Thank you. No other raised hands, Madam Chair. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm always a big advocate for making sure the most affected girl butters are in support of your renovation, given that the lawyer presented all the arguments and support for the project. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Betabrazo. Yes. Chair also looks yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have case 139-9573. The address being 16-01 Street. The applicants and the representative. Good afternoon. I'm actually the homeowner. The applicant is as well as my contractor. He's also in mind. If you pull up the. The plan. It's an additional dwelling unit or space for me and my two children that are 11 and 12 now. I have met with the. It's called the HGG OBA on March 27th to present my plans. So that's the community. They have agreed and they said they back me on anything that I do. I believe somebody from the community is online to support me. I don't know if there's any. What are you presenting? What are you seeking really fun? To get approved. Well, I needed to meet with the board of appeals to get approval to continue building. Well, adding that additional area in my basement. And just and what kind of living space is it going to be bedrooms or just family room? Family room. Any questions from the board? I don't have any questions. With that may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, mayor's office looks to defer to the judge from this board. Some back information in the community process, so on as host and the butters meeting on March 27th, where the butters express support for the project and the applicant. They went on to connect with Mike Kozu from project right. And the support was also given from that group as well with that with the further the board at this time. Thank you. Any other raise hands? Oh, other raise hands, Madam chair. Thank you. With that may I have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to before emotion approval with the provider that there would be no building code relief. Yeah, the second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better browser. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 139 9546. The address of 45 Wentford Street. The applicant and where the representative president. Yes, good. I have to know Madam chair. Secretary attorney Joseph Easter from the law firm of Dane Torpi, 175 federal street. Boston 02110. I wanted to to present this case. And I wanted to do it in this particular form. And if you will, Madam chair, I would like to just begin the process. I would like to have introduced my clients to have them say something on the record. I'm going to ask the engineering Mr. Reno to talk about the project. And then I wanted to bring to the board to attention the support that the applicant has for this particular proposal. I will say at the outset, this is a house on at 45 a winter street, which was built in 1890. My clients boarded. We're just this is not the one we're going to use. I can use this one later if we can just put the plan up for the moment. Thank you. Miss Hates. The board. Property was built in 1890. They bought the property in 2021 in the condition which we're talking about and which will be discussed, particularly by Mr. Rene is exactly what is being sought here. They had a they purchase this property in 2021 and my clients names are. Miss. Validus. There's mangoes and Michael Williams. They bought the property in 2021 at the time. They would tell that there was two spaces that were there for parking. And they proceeded in that regard. I'm surprised we got. Today, what there is being sought and I'm surprised with some of the concerns that have been raised in the neighborhood. But that's you will hear. Speak here. Refreses to that. This is simply an effort in order to move a curve, curve cut a particular distance. And I think it's important for the board to hear exactly the relationship that my clients have both through family means it but as well as personally to this neighbor. So if you would give me the benefit of doing that Madam Chair would like to do that very, very brief. So Valerie Michael, what are you just the board? Hello board. My name is Valerie. I was born in school. I am a student. I'm a student. I am an alum of MeGo. I'm the support of the opportunity to make friends about the city of Boston, including Roxbury, eventually leading me to my life partner, Michael, who is from Roxbury. I graduated from our school here in Boston and remained invested in the city and currently work at mass general as emergency department nurse. department nurse. My shift hours are odd, I am a night nurse and usually get off at work around three or four in the morning. Coming home around that time, safety and security is an issue for me. We bought the house in 2021 when we found out we were going to be starting a family and welcomed a son in February of 2022 and his safety as well, the two people to be able to get him in another car safely off the street is very important to us as well. We are fortunate to have family members who are very involved in our lives and help take care of our son. In particular, my mom, she is handicapped and has limited mobility issues and we are, we want to provide safe and easy access to the entry of the home to her benefit. The nearest off street, the resident parking, visitor parking is a quarter of a mile away from our house. The entire street is residential parking. We are sandwiched between a church and also a school and during peak hours, a pickup and drop off hours, as well as church services, parking congestion becomes a problem and we are seeking to have a safe and easy access to the city. We are looking forward to the next day. Good evening everyone. I hope everyone is doing well. My name is Mike Williams and as Valerie Minton, I grew up in Roxbury from Oslo and that club on but I attended Boston Public School first, actually in Roxbury right around the corner from the house that we purchased in 2021 and also played out the boys and girls club literally right, maybe a hundred yards away from the house that we purchased in 2021. My paternal, both my paternal and maternal great-grandparents, I'm boosting themselves to Roxbury to make that their home, to raise their families and they've been invested in this community for close to 100 years. My mom worked as a, like, worked for an elected official actually too on the politics for really long time and I remember being a high school student attending these VBA meetings regularly. I never would have thought that I'd be anyone actually presenting to try to get their variance approved. I want to also say my grandmother also is someone that has been very active in the political scheme in Boston, Dorothy and Joan and she's someone that's been an inspiration to me my entire life. I know she's still right now currently serves on the Mirrors Operations Committee and then finally my late grandfather, or excuse me, my late grandfather, drove a cab off throughout the city of Boston in the 60s. He came up here from Birmingham, Alabama as a way to escape the things that were happening in the South at the in the 40s and the 50s and he moved up here to support his family and to ensure that like me and like my my cousins, my sister, we all got educated and we weren't a position to actualize that American dream of owning a house. I attended college in Georgia, moved back here for graduate school and my career at Boston College, so I was elected in April a while and then I transitioned to work for the city of Boston for over 60 years to help court involved gang involved young people throughout Roxbury, Georgia, I'm out of pan, get jobs and also finish their high schools of plumber or get into college. Currently I worked for philanthropy, I worked for our major foundation in New England and it was important for me and Valerie to want to start and raise our family in the same community that gave us so much in a place that has such a rich familial history with us. I want to ensure obviously my family is microarrity now but wanting to really ensure that Valerie is safe and knowing that over the past we've had waters that have been in our building under renovation and we've also encountered folks in the mapping task that have been starting to pop up in the area in the early mornings around the time that Valerie gets off of work. So we're really just trying to prioritize that safety and also the issues that Valerie has gone off the relevant. Thank you and I'll cut the back to you. Okay, maybe can we ask some questions, Mr. Feister? Yes, well you can and in fact if you want Miss Marini can talk about the project in terms of what's playing as that's what I was happy to miss. Okay, thank you. Okay, Miss Marini, can you describe what you were proposing? From Marini Native Tech 31 Monroe Street in Lynn. Can you hear me okay? Yes. Okay, the curb cut existed at 18 feet. We're just shifting and centering it on the lot of 45 so that we can enable two cars to park in an angle and access. Now the sidewalk will be repaved, concrete sidewalk and basically the curb cut remains the curb and is just shifted so that two cars can access independently. The steps, there's a curb that really kind of controls the progression of the vehicle so that it can stop at the curb at the curb and not into fear with pedestrians exiting from the house. So, and a handicap person can access through the gap between the curbing which isn't needed in the where the gap is because the cars are at an angle. The whole purpose of the curb is to essentially it's a wheel stop. So there's improvements to the sidewalk, there's improvements to the front yard there that there was a low retaining wall that just wasn't disrepair anyway. So the actual paved surface is betuminous between the curbing and the concrete sidewalk so it's a smooth surface to access. So we believe that it'll be safe and it'll be a clean treatment of front yard space and overcome any kind of configuration of non conformity that is being questioned or could be questioned. How are the cars parking presently? You're showing them like that you want them to be able to park at this angle. So how are they parking now? I can share the screen as an existing survey. I can't share screens but if you could just. Are they just parking straight like? Yeah, the parking straight or in the wall is close. I don't have to look at the survey but this is a while ago that we looked at it but I believe that the wall is too close to the sidewalk that the wall after you removed and so this curb will take its place. But we put back further into the lot so it's not enough for them right now basically. And the way the configuration of the site is. Do any of your other neighbors have front yard parking? Mike, I missed it. I think the neighbors have parking front yard parking because I mean this is probably not a question for you but. The second part of my question is probably not for you but just as a matter of whether those are legal front yard parking spots or not. Maybe that's a semiannthal question. Well, I missed on two things I can answer for you in the question that you're inquiry to Mr. Marini. I mean, I think that's probably the only one car was parked either way they did not park to two vehicles in there because it could not. To your other question is that's the reason for the photographs that were there before it shows a. If you look and may not want to give the boy because I know you're pressed for time in terms of that but I submitted for the record and this here in terms of all of the places throughout the neighborhood throughout this community and on wait or street. In terms of the type of parking spaces including some of the properties that are adjacent to this to here that have to have the parking. So you have that you have as well. So in the record of a support letter from council of time your and the sense time you're in the end is that and you have in for in the record submitted 57 signatures on a petition and supportive is. You know, as as Mr. Marini said the the effort here is just simply to fit a. A curve cut over so that this safety concerns that have been raised by this family can be addressed and it is not significant is not removing a space from from on the street so we would hope that's forward with the favor please. Thank you for the opportunity to ask the question of the drive way or pretty kind of long drive ways parking at the rear now some of the property do have some parking. You know closer to the sidewalk but the typology is typically just a long driveway to the rear. So the question in terms of what's the current with the existing curb. Cut. It's 18 it's it's it's it's shifted in Sanita is 18 18 okay. Okay. Thanks. Are there any other questions from the board. Yes, earlier they were talking they had mentioned that they're doing this specifically for a family member who has disability. No, no, Mr. Secretary what was mentioned is no they're doing it for the safety of and provide or should be parking for the following reasons. One is for for a Valerie who is the nurse in the time as she comes home so that she has been able to go into that there are the there have been some changes in the neighborhood which makes some of the safety concerns prevalent three because it's all resident parking that if any of their family members come to assist with child care and other matters. They're not going to be able to go into the parking. And then the last one they did mention that yes if her mother came by who is disabled. They would want to have a place where they could pull into the car so she can have better access in terms of to the property. So those are reasons. Okay, may I. You can you can use it as a you can't let you use. Yeah, one car right now. Yes. Okay, yes. Right. So theoretically the person with the residential sticker could park on the residential street. But with that, I'm going to open it up to public testimony because they're we do have a full agenda and you know who we've spent a long time on. Just the presentation. So can we open it up to public public testimony please. Yes, Madam Chair members board Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process. Our office conducting a butters being on May 3rd where a number of a butters expressed opposition due to what they felt is increasing front yard parking, which would set a president potentially for the for that street. The applicant went on to meet with the little civic association, which is the Roxbury path forward, which voted to oppose the projects. I'm a butters collected a total of 47 signatures and opposition. I believe as you heard from the applicant I believe there's also signatures in support as well. With that will defer to the judgment board. Thank you. Thank you. Are there other raised hands. Madam ambassador. We have you left 12 race hands. Okay, well let's. Well, it would be great if we could try to have those people who are. Opposed lower it first so that we can. Make sure that we're balanced and and hear both sides, but you guys do your best. I'm not going to listen to 12. Let's start with the. Through or forward and see where we go. Okay. So being you've been unmuted. My name is Sarah. I'm here. I'm sorry. I did not hear you were. I'm sorry. Madam chair. Madam chair. Members of the board. Paul Sullivan City. The public. First of all, you know, like that, we have a. Statut Hoeвой and Mr Timifer. Mr. Hello. Thank you. Thank you. The 302 and 374. I've had larger.plaherty reflect. My name is Sabine. I am the sister of Valerie just mangles. I am a resident at 85 Gallivan Galevard. I reside with my mother who is the person in question who will be visiting and supporting my sisters with child care when necessary. Okay, so we assume you're in support. So we're going to keep going. I'm sorry. Let's keep going. May I also say something because for those that are opposing, I hear your opposed, but I do not hear a reason if you could give a reason so that we can explain that would be very helpful because all I hear is no. And in the chat, I hear something, I see something about a true in my opinion that is not a reason to not accept something. So, okay, thank you. I will say why. You ask for reasons. Thank you. My mother is also here. Can you please move on. Are you been unmuted? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair and distinguished members. I'm here with the butter who lives right next door. Her name is Nadine Riggs. She will give you the reasons that you would like to hear why she's opposing and, you know, the reasons why all the neighbors are opposing this. She's going to take my place right now. She's right here. So she's going to use my computer. Is that all right? She's going to give you all you'll let all the list. I'm not going to give reasons why I'm just going to state reasons why the community has voted no as stated previously, we have 45 signed three page letter of opposition. And I am the director butter to the to 45 we share a firewall. I'm opposing this request for several reasons. First article 50 says no parking in the front yard to with the street is a long street. We cover about four to five blocks long. No one has front yard parking. Everyone either has parking on the side or a driveway that leads to the back. But again, no one has front yard parking. 45 already has an illegal curb cut for one parking space. So in terms of their reasons, which seem to be really just self serving. And I'm just a part of the, no one misled them. You can look at pictures, who go old pictures. My neighbor, because I've lived up 43 I moved in in 2010. I purchased in 2012. When I moved there, my neighbor parked her very large station wagon in the front yard. And I was the only one car in the front yard. So in terms of their reasons, I'm saying that they were told it was to car parking. It's never been to car parking because there's no room. The developer's wife Valerie is a nurse. She works late hours. A lot of our neighbors work late hours. They already have one parking space. I would assume if the family members are in the front yard, they already have a legal off of street parking in the front yard. So my assumption is if you have people visiting, you're going to make adjustments. So that person can park in the front yard and access your home. Another point is we do have permit parking. It ends at 6 p.m. White open. The only time, Winthrop Street has an issue with parking is when it's Sunday, because we have four houses of worship on Sunday. When I leave my home on Sunday, I put out two cones. No one's ever bothered my comes, but that's the only time there is a issue with parking. There's always parking. Thank you. I just want to say this more thing at our hospital. Okay, at our corner, there are four houses to the residences and their multiplexes. They all have on site parking. 43 and 45. We're the only ones who park on the street. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Let's try to get one or two more before we move on. Violet. Yeah, I'm muted. Yeah, so I mean, just everything that Nadine has said, I actually live on the lower end of Winthrop Street. And that is where there is an issue oftentimes of parking in the air in the block where Nadine and Nadine's home is in 45. And so here is parking, plenty, ample parking on the opposite side of the street. So, you know, to have. You have any new reasons to stop. I'm just affirming what she said. That's it. So your place. Thank you. Yes. Okay, let's, let's take one more. Okay, so I'm muted. I am still with the opposing and this is Sabine and I just want to answer Nadine or the other person. I just said that spoke. So I would we're trying to take new testimony. Okay, so can we please have someone new stuff me. Mr. Seven. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the list of the public. And put your hands down if you've already spoken or if you're part of the application team or family. Thank you. You're able to hear me. Thank you, Madam. Karen board. My name is Nicole on behalf of the Districts of an office and Councillor Tanya Fernandez Anderson. We are in very strong support of the curb cut. We believe that this will greatly promote the safety for their family. This family has been in Roxbury and active in Roxbury for generations. And that is in addition to a letter of support we have submitted. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, I think. Want more, Madam Chair? I'm going to ask the members if you have any other questions or if you feel you need to hear anymore. I miss better, Baraza or Madam chair. I know a lot of the make-o spoke. You please read the Boston Transition Department recommendation and also the Boston. I'm going to ask the committee. I don't have Mr. Domingo's in front of me. I'm not sure if. Okay. I can read. You guys. Okay. Thank you. So Bob Domingo said there's simply not enough room for regarding this case. Also this request would result in finding a parking. I would like to request a denon in this case. So that's the BTED. So that's the BTED. For the BPD. They're also recommending denial due to. For one. New curve curves should be at 10 feet. And spaces that are there should be one compact and one standard size. So that's the one that is proposing to compact space, which is not allowed. And this is why they are recommending denial. So with that, I would like to. Put a motion forward of denial. May I have a second? I would like to put a motion forward. Since we have no. Unity. Let's try another vote. I'm on the motion. Sorry. I'd like to put a motion forward that we defer this case. I would like to put a motion forward. If we have other people also listen to what we may be. So the short of that would be to. We move the case in full body. We have a second. I would like to put a motion forward. I would like to put a motion forward. The interest of moving this forward. Let's make a motion. Let's vote. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Ms. Bette-Barraza. Yes. And the chair will vote. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next case. Next case is. The away. 146. 1000. The address being 86. Grand Pian away. Is the applicant. And where they are represented further. Yes. This is Shane Losey with two in company architects, and we are in Maratha. I believe she is on the list as well. This is proposed. Former on an existing single family. We're asking for. Three. Three violations that we're asking for. The first is a extension of a non-conforming use. This is a single family and a single family zone. So we believe that one was cited incorrectly. We believe that one was cited. The other two are dimensional. Violations. One for FAR. The. The zone FAR is required at point four. We are existing point four to. And we're only adding 90 square feet. So the proposed FAR would be point four three. And we're asking for side yard, which the proposed. And we're asking for side of the house. So in these pictures right here, the right side of the house. That's the side where it's. On the lower right corner. That right side of the house in that picture. Is the wall that has the violation. Required is 12 feet and the average of the dormers at 7.5 feet. If you just go back a few slides, you can just note these last two dimensional on these are on the site plans. Yes. So these last two dimensional regulations that have were cited. This is an existing double lot. The mortgage is only tied to the lot that the house sits on. If both watch were considered, neither of these would be violations. So just in having a lot separate. Create the two for the violations for FAR and for. There's existing. The dormer. Is create room for a primary bedroom and bathroom, which will replace two smaller bedrooms. So we're actually reducing the bedroom count in the house from six to five. And it's just going to be nothing to see from the front of the house. The dormers on the backside. So nothing to see from the spot. You can see if it is your go up the hill from the street on the side. So having no park is across the street from this. And the dormer basically takes up. The length of the backside of the house, but again, it was only adding 90 square feet to the. Overall size of the house. Which we remove for we can see that in the proposed floor plan. So these are existing floor plans. You can keep going. So this is the next sheet. So this is the existing third was the proposed third floor plan where we see the dormer for the last few feet. Pushing out so it's already is already finished there up to this level and two bedrooms. So we're just again making two bedrooms into one bedroom and a bathroom. You kind of see the set it through our section on the right. The existing roof line and then the proposed dormer. And then the next few slides show the elevations of what we're proposing. So we can see. So on the side we have the. The on the left side is the right side elevation where we see on the right portion that added dormer. And the that balcony off the back of the proposed bedroom. And then on the right side is the rear elevation again showing the proposed dormer across the length of the house. And we can take any questions. Okay, any questions from the board. I don't have any. Hearing none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looked at deferred to the judgment of this board. So we're going to have some background information on the community process. Our office conduct me a butters mean on April 19th, where the majority of the butters and attendance express support for the proposal. We've received multiple letters in support, which I believe we forwarded to the board. And the applicant eventually went on to me with the Columbia, Savin Hill, civic association where their general membership voted unanimously to support the project with this will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm chair members of the board, Joe McGeckeren city councilor frame Baker's office. We like to go on record and support. Here. Here in no other testimony. Why are we not seeing it here is a way. Are you here for this case? I'm not sure. Motion to approve. One. Yes. Yes. May have a second. A second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Miss Betapurraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. I'm going to. I'm going to. Actually we have case. The away. One. One. Nine. Two. Eight. Zero. The address being 10 to 12. Bentham Road. Is the applicant and where they're representing the front. Anyone for a 10 to 12. Bentham Road. Yes. Ali and crew third. I'm going to. Yes. I am. Okay. Can you walk us through your request. Okay. My name is Arlene Cruthurd of 10 12. Bentham Road. Do you just a mass. I've owned my home since 429. I am proposing to put a two car driveway on my property. I'm going to. Parking on my street has gotten worse over the years as other neighborhoods. A lot of people on the street have about three or more cars. Neighborhood has changed also also I live next door to a Airbnb. And once again parking is an issue. For the street and myself as an elder person. Safety is important also. So I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to park close to my home when I do come home. Sometimes that's not possible. And I work closely with Ross. The liaison of doorchester. I've gone to the butter meeting and I passed out flyers and there was no objection. Okay. I'm going to ask us before Ms. Bedbrass it does. Mr. Domingue go have a. An opinion. But I don't have you can you in front of me. I have it. Bob Domingue from the Boston Transportation Department basically said there's not enough room for driveway. And the minimum wish should be 10 feet. I would like to suggest a denial for this case. I'm sorry. What is the width of your. It's longer than it's the width. 10 feet or more. Is this the rise of 2010. I'm sorry. It was revised on 1023 19 that it is 10 feet or more. I'm sorry. It's so small. So if someone tells me it says more than that. I sent the updated. Yeah, this this actually does have 10 feet. So you're. You're okay with that. The. The other issues. The video so commented. It would be one job behind the other not side by side. Okay. I'm sorry. And also the BPD a comment and recommended denial and the reason for is. That the. I think it's the 10 feet and the front yard and or the front and the front yard correct. Right. And off she park is not to be located is to be located more than five feet from from the sideline. And then you're going to have to be there. And then you're going to have to be there. Not enough side side yard setback. That's why they're recommending denial. Okay. Even though it's one car behind the other you saying the width are you saying the length. No. Typically you should when you have. On site off she parking. You need to have a side yard at least five feet. And dimension from your sideline. And then you can see the width of the sideline. That's why I think it's not a big deal. Or at least minimum. If I'm reading your survey plot plan. It's it's very minimum. But so I think I think we can move on to. Yes. Yes. I just wanted to give you that feedback. Could I just sorry. Another clarifying question is. So there is there a curb cut now or would you need a new curb cut? I would have to get a curb cut. Sorry. Let's go to public testimony. Understood. Thank you. That wouldn't be no problem. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The sound of the air is off. It's deferred to the judge from this board. As you heard the applicant mentions using touch with our office and flyers for circulated to a butters. I'm unaware of any concerns at the moment. With that will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. I'm out of chair. Okay. Any follow up questions. Fairfiring questions. Okay. With that may have a motion. Madam chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval with a provisor that it would be for only one parking space. Thank you. Man, the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Motion carries. Next. One parking. That's no problem. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case. Be aware. One four three. Six nine five one. The address being 10 to 10 a walk hill street. The applicant and the way they represent the president. Before using public is to be aware of one of the three ways here. Hey, can you identify yourself, and your address and what you're seeking relief for? Yes. My name is Emiliano Amoroso. I live in for for Naity Canal Institute, Summer Bill MASS. answer for takeout. There was a change of ownership and I was told that the owner has taken the permit for the takeout and I have to apply for a new one. So I just need to get the the provides are removed in order to get my own. Thank you. This is pretty straightforward. Any questions from the board? Here I'm hearing none. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judge from this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns with the proposal. I will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I see no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Here I'm done. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair also, yes motion carries. Good luck, sir. Next we have case BOA 147-2867. The address of 210 Rosemail Avenue is the applicants and with your representative. Yes, sir. My name is Peter Severin. I'm the owner applicant, owner occupant for 210 Rosemail Avenue. It's a single single family home, two stories single family home in Rosemail. We're proposing a dormers to the third floor for additional living space, bedroom bathroom, and a rear single story addition that does not need sending relief as it meets current setback and also a replacement of our existing non-conforming rear porch to meet the length of the new addition. So the relief we are seeking is setback and height for our dormers. Any questions from the board? No questions, pretty straightforward. Yep, hearing none may both testimony please. Is there any? I have one raised hand. Diana, you know, I'm muted. Hello, good evening Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Diana Bronskuk from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we defer a judgment to the board. There wasn't a butters meeting held on May 23rd with low attendance. This project was presented to the West Village Neighborhood Association on May 25th, where there was no opposition. Our office has not received any concerns or statements from the community. Thank you. Hey, with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, we received many letters of support and with that I would like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. May I speak to you? Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, next we have case B-O-A-147-1763. With an address of 247 Willow Street is the applicant and the way they represent the president. Mr. Fini present. James Fini. Mr. Fini? Yes. Can you hear me now, board? Yes, sir. I thank you. Thanks for hearing this. We coming back in front of the board, we received a permit for shed dormers at 247 Willow Street. Unfortunately, the economics of that job were unattainable for us, so we scaled down the job and we are now looking for one more variance for the back of the house to go above the deck and kind of scale down the job. Okay. Any questions from the board? No questions. It's true for you. Thank you. May I have a motion? I mean, sorry. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayors Office defer to the judgment of this board. The applicant met with the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council, which voted unanimously on May 23rd to support this proposal. But that will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have any other raised hands? I see no additional raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to forward a motion of approval. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge, I need a second. And you're on me. Second. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. May the bed of Braza? Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. I know we're getting tired, but we're a few more left. We're a few more left. Thank you, Board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1440414. With the address of 89, we'll move to low dean Avenue. It's the applicant and what they represent the president. Good evening, Board. My name is Dan Casmer, on behalf of Matt Palmer. I'm the architect for the project on Willardine. The project has an existing nonconforming side yard setback for one of the two addition pieces that were proposing on the rear of the house. There are no further setback. So, with the home village foundation and a rest는 as for the fact overall decision backwards by separation. Thank you. Any questions from the Board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony. Now Chair, members of Board Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of neighbourhoods. Dr's time the mayor's oblast deferred to the judgment of is Bored. the council and May 23rd where they also voted to unanimously approve this project. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Any raise hands? I see no additional raise hands. Madam chair. One call following the council. Thank you. Okay, with that may I have a motion? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Was that a motion? Okay, man, the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better browser. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1431753. The address is 12am. Street. Is the applicant and or their representative president. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board attorney and premier Ross 343, Belgrade Avenue and Rosendale on behalf of the applicant. The executive president. On behalf of the applicant. The cooperative bank. The bank purchased the adjacent property to the immediately abutting property to the bank, which was a two family structure. In poor condition with much deferred maintenance. They made the investment in this property with the intent to raise the structure and utilize the property for a parking lot for 11 employee cars. So, I just private employer and Rosendale village and contributes to the economic vitality of the village. To, to continue to make that contribution while relieving some of the parking congestion in the immediate area. The parcel in question isn't two families own, but it abuts the bank, which is in the neighborhood shopping district. The abutter on the other side of the property to the right hand side at 1618 Amherst Street is in support of the proposal and has also agreed to work with the bank on installing shade trees along both sides of the common property line to mitigate the addition of the additional asphalt on the site, which was a concern that was raised in the community. So, I think that's a good question. So, can you just clarify the housing that's presently there? Was it occupied when you purchased it or? It was unoccupied when the bank purchased it was an extremely poor condition. The bank looked into possibly reusing the structure and they made a determination that it would likely have to be raised. So, in this case, it'll be raised. It won't be replaced today. That's correct. And currently you don't have any occupants. No, it's been vacant since the bank since before the bank acquired the property. Okay, and how many parking spaces do you currently have on the property that the bank is located? I counted approximately 36. And how many employees do currently have? The bank tells me they have approximately 100 employees at the three locations. At the Rosendale location at the Rosendale location. They have over 60. They are working a hybrid schedule where they're having people come in three days a week and work remotely as much as possible to again alleviate parking congestion and. And community. Okay, I don't have any further questions, but actually, I would like to read both Bob Demiko's comments on. On the parking. So, basically, so from the BGD basically said remove the space closest to the sidewalk, which will reduce the number of spaces to 10. And then for the BPD, I'm just grabbing it right now, unless you have it in front of you. BPD says so they recommend BPD recommends denial. And then you can say, you know, in terms of context, demolishing a two family home in a residential area is not an align with the planning goals for the neighborhood. And then in regards to zoning parking is not an allowed use in this out of context within the neighborhood. And okay, and I have additional questions building on some of this better Rosendale questions, 36 spaces that you have presently. And then you can say, you know, you're on the bank site, are they are they dedicated to employees only or is that for customers and and or employees. That's for customers and employees. Okay, so there's no designated number that are for employees per say. No, they trying to keep the parking spaces at the back on the bank site available for. Customers as much as possible. So, I don't know if they're not. I don't know the answer to that. I'm sorry to say I can say that I know that sometimes I see that employees parking there when I when I go to the bank myself. Okay, no, that's that's fair. Madam chair, if I recall correctly, I do believe they have two parking lots, one which is mainly for customers and the other which is strictly for the staff. Two on the same site you mean. Mr. One is one is on the site and one is down the street. Yeah, they have a second parking lot on Delray Avenue further up Delray Avenue, which is for employees. And then just for context for my colleagues, the bank property is on a zoning subdistrict of neighborhood shopping. The this property that's in front of us is in a residential zone. Of two F five thousand. That's correct. So all along Amherstreet is. Residential properties. The director butter to the right hand side, which which would about this property is submitted a letter of support and is in support of this. So to remove the structure that's been. A poorly maintained structure for such a long time so so much so that. Whether it could be repurposed is is a strongly in question. Understood. Let's take public testimony. I know there's a you know, I we saw a fair number in support and a fair number in opposition. And so I just want to make sure people have a chance to speak. Yes, madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The sound of mayor's office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. We conducted a butters meeting on May 16th, where a small group attended. Many community members voice concerns about the potential environmental impact of asphalt asking for measures to reduce the heat island effect with landscaping and attorney. Anthony Ross, say that the bank president would welcome such initiatives. And so I think that the members also voice some concerns regarding traffic and safety. Being that the lot is at the end of a one way street. The applicant pledged to work with Boston Transpiration Department over the traffic flow concerns. The project went on to present to the West Village neighborhood association on May 25th, where some members brought up similar concerns to those of butters. And so I think that the mayor of that group ended up taking a final stance. As mentioned, we received letters of support from a direct butter, as well as some letters of opposition from community members and organizations such as walk up Rossi with that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Are there other raised hands. I have a question. Can I ask one other clarifying questions since Mr. Stembridge mentioned additional parking. Do you know how much parking is available on this other site firm, boys? I do. There's 17 parking spaces on the other parking lot. I also wanted to mention that during the community review process, there were residents of Belgrade Avenue and M. Herstreet, who are in favor of this proposal. And I think that the proposal to eliminate leave eight parking congestion in the area, as well as other businesses, the Sullivan's pharmacy is adjacent and the same Nick Tariots church and their parish members are in support. And the last thing I'll mention just in terms of impact on traffic flow. And I'm not proposing to change the curb cut the curb cut would be repurposed and we have pledged in response to concerns about the heat island effect to investigate the possibility of using more reflective paving surfaces and also, as I mentioned, the rear of this site is the south and it has quite a number of shade trees. And the property at 45 Birch Street and the butter on the west side 16 18 Amherst Street has agreed to work with the bank on installing shade trees on both the bank side of the common property line and on the about a button property's side of the property line. Okay, any other questions from the board. With that may have a motion. Madam chair, giving that this site is in proximity to the commuter rail and a lot of public transportation. And I'm going to recommend that we emotion for denial. I just don't see the replacement of residential halving that's currently zone for residential to to additional cars. It seems to go against the goals of the city of Boston and promoting. And I'm going to use a public transportation. To reduce carbon emission. So that's why I'm putting forward that motion. Okay, what do I have a second. Second. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. The chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Next, we have case B.O.A. 143343. But the address of 141. Colberg Avenue. Is the applicant and where they represent the president. I was there. That's an architect of the project. I'm going to speak for. You hear me all right. I'm going to talk about the project. Yes, we can. You just identify yourself. At your exact. Exactly. Nine sackville street. Architect of the project. Context LLC. And if you can give us some background on it or so. The project is for. Mr. Pearson and our sister live in the existing home have lived here for quite a while. And the. And so. And so. And they're. And they live in the area which is basically a bedroom in a bathroom so that their. Her daughter can live with them and help take care of them as they age and place. And eventually will not be able to handle the staircase. There is a rear yard setback violation because of the orientation of the house towards Colberg. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Collin Arnomen with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information on the community process. We had the applicant circulate flyers to homes within 300 feet. We did not hear any feedback or any concerns regarding the proposal. And there's not believe I don't believe there's an active civic association in this area. With that we'll defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I see no additional raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PTA design review. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Brasa. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case BOA. It's for the Re-discussion section from 5 p.m. We have case BOA. One four one two five four six. The address of 36 G Street is the applicant and or their representative. Good evening, Madam Chair. I'm the board. My name is James Christopher of 686 Architects with the business address of 1156 to a Chester Ave. I'm here tonight on behalf of Gene Fahey and Maureen Lane. For 36 G Street. It's currently a single family house. There is no intent to change the occupancy. We are constructing a rear addition, which will be 20 feet off of the rear. Building at gray and then another seven feet at the second floor. So on the first floor, we'll be matching our rear abut a constructing a new kitchen and interior floor plans. I knew Bethe-Brasa can't believe a deck at the rear and then a master suite above. If you get on to the next slide, there's the master suite. You can see our butters property to the left. Oh, these are the existing drawings. Scroll down. Sorry, keep going. That's the existing existing existing keep going. I propose. So we're constructing the 20 foot rear addition, which we consist of a man's outroof. We worked with our director butter as much as possible to try to mitigate the concerns. He would still like to see the setback a little reduced a little, but we feel that this does not violate his view or impact his house. In any way, the owners are at the Gene's family who's own this house since the 1920s. And as a part of this, addition will return. The house will be renovating the full exterior, including trying to reproduce some of the dental moldings and decorative one eight wood along the front of the property. So without, I'll happily try to answer any questions I can. Thank you. Was that, are there any questions from the board? No questions. Pretty straightforward. Okay. Hearing none, may I take full the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The corner, Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office, I'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information on the community process. Oh, that's just in the butter's meaning on December 5th 2022. There were roughly six of butters and attendants. Those that spoke, spoke an opposition to the proposal. We later received one three one call in opposition, one letter in opposition and a letter from the Gate of Heaven neighborhood association that was also an opposition. The letter stated the Gate of Heaven neighborhood association is in total opposition to proposed development at 36 GE Street, South Boston. We as a group, as well as media butters have tried to work with owners of this property to reduce the size of the expansion to match the surrounding houses, but to no avail. We're more than willing to support a smaller expansion to match the direct to butter. But once again, they only say no. In conclusion, from the above reasons, we want to go on record an opposition for this proposal. That information will refer to the board at this time. Thank you. And sorry. I just want to ask a follow-up question. The folks that you said were opposed at a butters meeting. What was their state of reason? I believe it was for the similar case, similar reason stated in the Gate of Heaven letter. Just concerns about the size and the scope of the edition of the rare. Okay. Sorry. Laura. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair. I'm going to go ahead and read the letter. Please note that council president Flynn submitted a letter of opposition along with his fellow south Boston electorate officials. Congressman Lynch, consular at large Florida, Senator Collins and representative bill. And he's read a read of follows the board of appeals to committee. I'm writing to join nearly 50 of my neighbors and the gate of heaven neighborhood association in opposition to the proposed project at 36th Street. The proposed project seeks to reconfigure and expand the existing rooftop structure confirm the structure's occupancy as one family dwelling in a red-arrier addition to the existing structure. Neighbors have expressed concerns that these change will be far too large for the existing structure and that these notifications will be inconsistent with the rest of the duplex that this project will occur on. Moreover, neighbors have noted that seemingly lack of hardship were respect to his proposal and that this property is owned by an absentee law landlord who has repeatedly neglected this property for years and created quality of life issues for a butters. This proposed project is also very close to the a button properties which will impact the sunlight and shadows of his neighbors as well create issues with airflow air flow and open space. This proposal is inconsistent with the character of the surrounding neighborhood and residents have overwhelmingly expressed that it will negatively impact their quality of life. Therefore, I join my neighbors in opposition to this project. I hope that the Board of Appeals will listen to the community to reject this proposal and request for barrens. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out at that flint at bosson.gov. Thank you, council president Sain. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan City Council, Laura Michael Flaherty, the echoing sentiments of council president opposition. Okay. Are there other raised cans? Hey, are you here to speak on this case? Yes, sorry, Haley Dillon from Senator Nick Collins office. We'd like to stand with our letter and speak in opposition. Thank you. William, you're unmuted. He's still muted. I don't know if the staff need you can know. Impact that. Hold on. Go on this. And Hammy? Yes, we can now. Okay, so my answer is William Drey McDonough, I live in 34 G Street. We can't hear you again. Did he disappear? Can you hear me? Yes, we can. I don't know what's happening. So I'm going to direct the butter, but I'm also attached. So it's different to being next to somebody. And then on the other side is that there's a parking lot at 38 to 40 G Street, where I am the trustee of the parking lot of social issue with this 24 parking spot. So I'm going to butter on both sides of this property. My main concern is that being a construction supervisor, licensed construction supervisor, master's shoes, I'm also a party member of the IBW Local World 3. And I work 20 years in the construction department of the Boston Housing Authority. So I know a little bit of all construction was going on yet. All right, this property next to me has been basically neglected for 30 years. And it's an ice tour, it's probably a beer's ice tour itself, Boston. You say, well, why wouldn't you want to fix? I want to fix. But she wants to put on a 27 foot addition. Goes 12 feet, my house has a 15 foot addition on the back that her grandmother put on in 1937. If she wants to go 15 feet, the same month as my house, I've wrote the letter to the board. I've wrote the letter to everyone that I have no problem with the expansion. But she wants to go like 27 feet. It's going to block all of a sudden like my yard. My grandkids are going to have no more sun. The airflow, all kinds of problems. So I've talked to them, I've tried, tried to work with them. They don't want to have anything to do with anything. So we had a butter's meeting on the fifth of December. And that was a Zoom meeting. No one there approved this. It was off opposition. And then it was not a legal opposition. There's nobody. Okay, can you just speak to your own opposition? We've heard. My own position is they want to put three, three foot from my building. They want three foot from my property line. I wanted to put a 27 foot high wall that's going to block all my sun, year and a house. And so if they want to, and I saw I'm not against, I'm not against people doing stuff working their house. But if she wants to make it as big as my house, I will not oppose this. But as far as it is now, it's just way too big for the neighborhood. It's way too big. It's the person who owns a house. Understood. Okay. So I also had a petition. I dropped stuff off. I sent pictures in. I hope you have those pictures. Thank you. I also put a petition in with 58 names on it. And there was a there were. Okay. Thank you. Are there any other speakers? John, yeah, I'm muted. Yes, can you hear me? Yes, yes. Yes, hi, my name is Joe. First of all, thank you, Madam Chair, Members of the Board. My name is John Yeppman. I reside at 538 East Forestry. I also have rental property next door at 54542. I've resided on this block for over 42 years. And I am in total opposition of the building that's going to go on at 36G Street. I won't bore you with all the stuff. You already heard it. Other than the building has never been maintained my whole time. I've been living here and it's it's kind of a disgrace. There's been raccoons that lived there over the years. I've actually followed them because they went through my trash barrels and they will live it in the house. So it's it's not a good thing. It's detrimental for my neighborhood. And that's a mark. Well, thank you. Okay. It's one more hand. All right, we'll take this last one. Luania, I'm muted. Thank you. Yes. Okay, great. My name is Luan O'Connor. I reside at 6 Shepton, Tarris in South Boston. And my vote here is in opposition. The building itself, the lot is just too small to support this type of addition. And where Mr. McDonough lives, he would literally be looking at a side wall. With no windows, it would block all of his sunlight. It is a family home. So it's just too big. It's not the right project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, any other questions from the board? Now, I'm checking. I have a moment to rebut. Do I do have some questions? Yes. Let's ask the questions first. Yes, ma'am. So it appears that your adjacent butter has kind of a rear massing. Is it two stories or three stories high? Where then you want to expand at the rear? The butter, I believe it's two stories. We'll be two stories. Okay, and you're proposing three stories. An expansion, correct? No, two. Two. Okay, so it's almost similar to your butter with the exception that you go out and I'm looking at the deck and then you go on top of that deck. Almost like seven feet out. Is it seven foot overhang at the second floor? At grade where even? Right, but it's like a seven foot overhang. Okay. I mean, and then your FAR, what's existing and then you're proposing? I see even less. We're only adding about 800. We're only adding about 800 square feet. The existing FAR is 2,556 square feet. We're going to 3,377 square feet. The rear yard snapback is still 20 feet. We meet all of the dementia requirements. The only zoning violations that are not met here, the iPod, self-bossed in the zoning code violations. Right, so your FAR is 1.35, proposed. Do you know what the FAR was existing? I don't have it in front of me, but I can. But the increase is only, you said 600. It's 800 and 800 square feet. Okay, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Okay. If I may not have, you know, briefly happy to work with the BPDA on the limit of the rear wall extension. We certainly appreciate Mr. McDonough's position. We did work with the, the butters. We did make changes to the plan several actually. I met with Mr. McDonough at my office on separately on several occasions to try to work directly with him to resolve the concerns. And we appreciate his position. He has it and my client have this. But, you know, we believe that this is a viable project. We believe it's consisting with self-boss and it keeps the single family, a single family. It keeps the driveway and it still has a 20 foot rear yard. I do not feel that it is too big or that it is inappropriate for self-bossed in. I feel that it's right. Okay, we understand your position. So can I understand when you say work together? So Mr. McDonough is suggesting that if the addition matched his edition, he wouldn't have an issue and it sounds like you're against that option. Is that correct? My client's priority is to keep the addition where it is. And I think that that made us, you know, that is the position that I've been asked to take. I'm happy, as I mentioned, if should the board think that the project on its merits is approval, then we will work with the BPDA to establish the limit of the rear wall. Okay, with that, we have motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the BPDA works with the applicant to reduce the rear extension so that it is comparable to the massing of its neighbors. Is that essentially what I just asked? I just want to make sure. I'm just going to put it on the BPDA to work with the applicant and it's a proviso to the rear extension. Is it a proviso that is for BPD design review paying special attention to the rear? But you're not you're not limiting the expansion if they decide that it's it's a reasonable as is. It's up to the BPDA so that they can ask the applicant to do a shadow study if needed, but I'm not going to put those set limitation. It is to work with the context of the nearby buildings. Okay, may I have a second? Hearing none, do I have a little time? Oh, not in second. That's fine. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betar-Varaza. Yes. So the chair votes no. The motion does not carry. Do we have an alternate motion? Do you want to put forward motion, Madam Chair? I would put forward a motion of approval with the addition being no more than the the addition next door. So working with the neighbors and BPDA to ensure the alignment. That. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betar-Varaza. Okay, so that motion does not carry either. Madam Chair, would you like to suggest an alternative? Madam Chair, if you feel that it's appropriate to defer this for a whole board, that would be your call. But if we can't come to a conclusion on a motion, then it would be denied in the motions itself. Do we have an alternate motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of denial with that participant. Do we have a second? Second. Ms. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betar-Varaza. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Final case. That would be case. B-O-A, 145, 07, 01, the address of 3335 Shaw Street. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Alex Rodriguez. I'm here on behalf of my father, the applicant, Ruben Rodriguez, for the denial. We're rather deferral, the initial denial for plans to extend. A second floor living space and a two family home into the attic for the purposes of a master suite. Previous reason for deferral was unclear hand drawn plans, which are included in the fact that you have towards the end. These are the newer, cleaner, non-hand drawn plans as requested by the board. Not sure what else to say next. You're fine. Yes. So the violations that we have standing were extension of not conforming use as a two family in a single family sub district. This is an existing two family home with a street that has a 10 other two family homes already on it. So that's existing and consistent with the rest of the neighborhood. The other two violations are for excessive FAR and a number of stories occupied being exceeded. As far as the FAR, we currently are at, sorry, let me just pull that up. The building as it stands is already past the current FAR allotment of 40%. It sits currently at 42%. Our proposal would add a total of 621 square feet, bringing the total FAR up to 49%. We are in a single family district. However, there are, as mentioned, multiple two family homes on the street. And at least four of those other homes also currently surpass their FAR. We believe that the zoning that is more applicable to our specific street and neighborhood would be the two family zoning, which would allow for up to an 80% FAR. I'm going to ask if there are any questions from the board. Yes, I do have some questions. What's your ceiling height in the attic space? Do you want to know the attic? That you're going to make habitable. Give me 11 feet. This is a current ceiling height. So there are additional questions. You're not doing any extra work that's working within the envelope. Great. And I really appreciate your applicant actually doing measured drawings. It's very helpful. I don't have any further questions. Okay, with that, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor, new move with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. It's time the Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of this board. During the community process, the neighbors had questions, but no concerns. Seeing as this is to legalize the two family, we're unaware of any concerns at this time, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other red stands? I see no additional red stands, Madam Chair. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval with a proposal that there will be no building code relief granted. Okay, may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betaparaza. Yes. Sure, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. And have a good night. Thank you. Have a good night. Have a good night. Have a good night. Bye. May go on.