 This meeting is being recorded. Madam chair, the floor of yours. All right. Good. Good evening. This is Sherry. Don't know if I should be introducing myself, but. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for November 17th 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature regarding virtual hearings. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to in order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through a telephone and video conferencing. This information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively un-muted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraint requires. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raised hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as much Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Now I will take a roll call and Mr. Fortune will call on the list. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm here. Thank you and handsy. Present Madam Chair. Thank you. Great job Madam Chair. Great job. We're here for every support you 100% of the way. All right. I'm going to call the first order is the are there any deferrals with rivals for the five o'clock cases if you can give you the address first place. Hi, I'm Rosha for 60 Chesterfield. I'm going to call the first order. Thank you Madam Chair. Okay. Thank you. So you're referring your 60 Chesterfield Street project. Correct. Yeah. You need a. I need a relative date. Hold on two seconds. Let me call it into the record and then you've been. Point. Sure. Calling the away 136. 8 532 60 Chesterfield Street. Name and address for the record please. I lean roast stuff from Rosha Design and construction. I'm going to call it. I'm going to call it. I'm going to call it. I'm going to call it. I'm going to call it. All right. Do I have a motion to defer. I'll give you a motion to defer. I'll second that motion. Thank you. All right. I don't mark. Yes. All right. Handsy. Yes. Thank you. And I to say yes. So motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that were brought with for the five o'clock cases. Yes. Five 10 East 8th Street. Please. Thank you. Hold on two seconds. Call the case. Be away. One three three five two three zero five 10 East 8th Street. Name and address for the record please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. John Barry representing John Draggo. My law office is located at 1156. Sixth doorchester at Boston, Matt zero to one two five. We are respectfully requesting a deferral. There was an issue with the revision that was sent in and it has not been. Approved by the examiner and sent along to the board at this time. Thank you, Mr. Barry. We'll make a motion for deferral. I like to put forward a motion to defer. I'll second that motion. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Better bronzer. Braza. Yes. And the chair also says yes. So motion carries. And you'll also have a date of January 19th at 5 p.m. Thank you, members of the board. Have a nice night. So are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock cases? Hearing none, I'll call the first case. Calling B.O.A. 137136914. This is to confirm awkward as a single family residence and add a two story kitchen office addition renovation to the basement and first floor of an existing home. Scoping closed, removing the existing back addition and exterior stairs the violation. 62 second eight. The rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record. And the parking. Is the applicant on. Yes, we're on Lily Orland and Dewey Nichols, their architect. Perfect. Can you walk us through? I'm the architect. So I my address is 23 milmont street of Austin 02119. And I'm going to walk you through. This, this addition that we're proposing is is actually the replacement of an existing structure that does not have a legal fire separation with the adjacent home. It is. It also has extremely low ceiling heights that actually don't meet code as well. The second floor has a ceiling head of six foot five. And then the main. And then the main block of the building is is going to be reconstructed with a firewall and with. And then the main house is going to be. And the main house is going to be the main house. So it also is giving a lot of attention to daylighting, noting that that's kind of a green sort of architecture. And gives more connection to the outdoor space for the. For the owner. That's why we would like to. Be able to rebuild this. Thank you. Is better bronze. Have you read the plans? Yes, Madam, Madam chair and the drawings are adequate. Thank you. Mr. Fortune any any questions or. No, I'm good. Madam chair. We will we can take testimony from the public. Is there anyone. Any public officials who wish to speak in favor. Good evening, Madam chair. Members of the board and it's how I've been. And I'm happy to hear from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant circulated flyers to the abutters in the neighborhood. No concerns were expressed at our office. So the summer office. Like to the judgment to the floor. Thank you. Thank you. Madam chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Okay. Would. Would someone like to make a motion? Madam chair, I like to prefer a motion of approval with BPD. I would like to thank you for your attention. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Paying special attention to the scale. Of the rear yard addition. I'll second that motion. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Is better. Yes. Chair also says yes motion carries. Thank you. Following the next case calling B.O.A. 130765433 Russell Street. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. I'm going to move to the next case. The case. The case. The case. Who needs the cement. Maybe grace resemble. Don't want to take on the chair. Whatever packages I could. Maybe great questions, not as chicken, never. Question of entry. Question of entry. Please answer questions, OK. What happens in the second case? Is that. Take your génia though. Questions of entry. That's great. OK. I'm going to move to the next case. Talk to you. Thank you very much. My name. Thank you, Mr. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you тоже got back to the room. Zell in that way or built that way. So what we would like to do is change, renovate the building, it needs to be renovated anyway. So renovate the building and create a two-fifth-year residence. We'd like to add a roof deck for Mike on the third floor and he would have a one bedroom 575 square foot, you know, one bedroom apartment. And his mom captain would have the bottom two floors and should have a two bedroom, actually three bathed two bedroom unit. Currently now there's a deck. If you look at the a three, the building's in the side of a hill. So, you know, the second floor essentially is the first floor, you know, has a walk straight out to grade. So what we'll do is put a deck, build a new deck for captain for his mom at the yard level. Then there's an existing deck up on that third floor, which would rebuild and actually put a spiral stick on for Mike's second egress. And then the roof deck would be something, you know, is causing the roof deck is actually causing the roof restriction violation. So that's what we'd like to do. The bottom unit would be 863 square feet. And the new, you know, Mike's unit upstairs, the single floor would be 575 square feet. So just to clarify other than the deck extensions, the other work is interior. It's all interior, yes. How are the plans, Miss Betar-Barraza? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any other questions or comments from the board? I'll take a public testimony. Is there, are there any public officials first to speak in support or opposition? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Natalya Venitas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Madam Chair, our office has seen a lot of personal turnover lately, so we don't have much information on this proposal. At this time though, we are unaware of any neighborhood concerns with that, with different judgments of the board. Thank you. Yeah, if I could help, then no one showed up for the neighborhood meeting. It was, it was a prior person who was, you know, we have a new person now in town, a new representative, but it was, it was not attended, you know, when it happened. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. No raised hands. Okay, may I entertain a motion? Madam Chair, I like to put for a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review, paying special attention to the screening of the proposed roof deck. A second end motion. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Betar-Barraza. Yes. Chair also says yes, motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Good night. You too. Thank you. So in the next case, calling BLA 135943822, hand over Avenue. This is a renovation of a single family townhouse. Acres remain a single family. The new stair and headhouse and additional two floors over the lower portion of the existing building. The Violation Medical 54 section 10, the Ray Yadetson sufficient, the Medical 54 section 18, roof structure restriction. May I just pull the record please? This is Park McDowell on the architect. I live at 7 Unity Street, number 9. In the north end, I'm a neighbor and friend of the owner. Our children are about same age. So Steven and Jenny here are looking to do a renovation to their primary residence or will be their primary residence after the renovation. It includes a two-story addition over an existing one-story portion of the building. Note that the entire project will remain under the allowable building height of 55 feet. In total, the three four three-story structure is going to be 31 feet, three inches above grade to the roof parapet. And then the proposal also calls for a stair headhouse set back from the street facing parapet and the top of that headhouse will be 40 feet above the street. These features are consistent with the neighborhood character and the scale. There are larger buildings immediately adjacent to the rear at four powers court and across the street at 35 Lert Street. To the second point, that about the rear yard being insufficient. So you see here on the screen the existing structure, if you go to the next slide, it will be the proposed new structure. This shows the increased height from the single-story lower section of the building to have that be three stories like the other and also some updates to the exterior fenestration. Next slide. Here you see the plans. And on the next slide, the stairway continues all the way to the roof. In a highlighted on this slide you see the location of the project. I indicated the taller building to the rear at four powers court and then the much taller building across the street at 35 Lert Street. This just gives you an idea about the scale of the neighborhood. Next slide. I also want to speak to the other violation. That's about the rear yard being insufficient. Due to the narrow depth of the site, the existing building is right on the lot line. It's not set back from the rear lot line specifically. And that required 12 foot setback is not feasible due to the shape of the property. The proposed renovation maintains the current building footprint. So I hope that you will agree with me that these requests for zoning relief are reasonable. We've done our community process guided by Sierra. We've got the approval of both NURA and NUNIC. And we've received no complaints or concerns about the project from many parties. Thank you. Ms. Beter-Rosa, have you reviewed the plans? Madam Chair, I have reviewed the plans and I do have a couple of questions. So I believe this isn't a g-cod. It is not in a g-cod overlay. It's not in a g-cod overlay. Okay. In terms, can you describe the existing headhows in regards to dimensions and your new replacement? Sure. The existing headhouse is basically a hatch, an add a catch to crawl up. It has a kind of ship's ladder to the top. We're proposing a code compliance stair, which includes a code compliant headhouse setback from the street. You can see in the maybe the elevation that would be helpful to understand those too geometrically. Okay. So you're proposing a full headhouse, but the existing is just a hatch. Am I understanding that correctly? Yes, the duck your head to get out. It's not quite a hatch, but it is not a full height space. It's up a ship's ladder. You can see that. Actually, if you go up one more slide, you'll see the existing, you know, it's that shape behind the fence. So it is a headhouse which protects proud of building. And you're proposing front balconies. How are they? Can't elievered. How are they attached? The front balconies? Yes. Yes, that's connected to the building structure. Basically, that's the way that the choice to run in. So those are extensions of the primary structural choice coming out. Okay. I have no further questions. Thank you. I mean, I don't know if this is typically to me, this seems like a large gerisco project that I think it needs full board. I don't know if that's something that I can recommend. Maybe Tom's online. I can't recall if there's if there's needs to be a motion to propose that. Hi, this is Tom. Hi. If you think that there is a motion to defer to the full board for that, that would be December 6th. I think would be our next one. We could generally do that. If you guys all agree, that's the right right choice. Okay. I would agree with you, Hansi, on this. Yeah, because this is this is not a very this is not a small single-final renovation. I think it needs a little bit much more of a larger kind of board to provide some feedback. Okay. In that case, let's take a motion. I like to make a motion of defer so that it can reach the full board. Yeah, I'll second that motion. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Beraza. Yes. Chair says yes, motion carries. And that will be December 6th at 1130. Would that also be a virtual meeting like this? That's correct. Yes. You just have the full board. Perfect. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-131047-2702-E-S-F-S-T-R-E. This is to replace the existing roof deck with a new roof deck. The violation of Article 9, Section 1, reconstruction extension of a non-conforming building, the roof deck, Article 68, Section 8, side-yard, side-yard for the roof deck, and Article 68, Section 8, the rear yard for the roof deck. They have an address for the record, please. My name is Michael Gordon at 702-E-S-F-S-T. Are you prepared to present? Yes. So I'm the owner, occupant, and what we're proposing here is an update to the existing roof deck. Currently, there is no decking on the roof of the ceiling. I mean, of the house, and we're proposing to put new railings and new decking down. There is a slight modification to the area as we're hoping to move their conditioner units out just to the left there. If you see there in the proposed roof deck there, the equipment area would be moved outside of the existing roof deck. Have you reviewed the plan as Miss Betabraza? Madam Chair, I have, and I have no questions to add. May I hear testimony in support? Or up? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, ONS Host and a butters meeting for 702-E-S-F-S-T and August 23rd. There is no opposition at the butters meeting or when they presented at the City Point Neighborhood Association meeting on September 13th. At this point, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you so much. Thank you, Anna. Good evening. Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The Council would like to go on recording support based on feedback from neighbors and the City Point Neighborhood Association. As the result is placement of the already existing roof deck. Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Are there any other raised hands? The caller 617-840 sent a request to unmute you. Once you did, please, okay, go ahead. Can you say your name and address for the record? Hi, this is Lou Ann of Connor, President of the City Point Neighborhood Association. We want to go on recording support of this project. The proponent presented before C-P-N-A based on the photos that he showed of pedals on the roof and now getting on those. We find that in this particular case, we want to support the roof deck. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Sorry, no additional raised hands there. Thank you. May I entertain a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. I'll second that motion. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Betar-Barraza? Yes. Chair says yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Calling your next case. Calling the OA-134-396-2690-E-83. This is to install a new curb cut. It will allow for two cars, off-street parking. The violations, Article 10, Section 1, limitation of off-street parking. An Article 68, Section 31, screening and buffering. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with that, I'm Samarante, Business Adress of 168A Street, South Boston. With me today is the owner, Mary Walsh. As we are here today, seeking a conditional use permit to allow for two off-street parking spaces that will be accessed to the right of the property. As we're all aware here that South Boston faces a parking crisis, this proposal here will be adding one space back to the neighborhood by allowing these two off-street spots to be in existence. We're at approximately 18 feet long by 7.5 feet wide. Further, what I think is well to be noted is the fact that there are other parking scenarios that are very similar to this in the South Boston neighborhood. I do respectfully understand the Board's stance on of allowing front yard parking. On this street here, about two properties down from the left further down on 8th Street, you'll notice that there's actual garage that the garage abuts the entire street itself, too, facing the street. There's actually a few other garages in South John on 8th Street, too. So again, at this point, I'm going to open it up for any questions or comments. Thank you. You answered my question about front or not. Ms. Betta-Barraza? Madam Chair, I review the drawings and they're adequate. The only question I have is, did we receive any feedback from BTD? Yes, we did, Hansi. So, Madam Chair, I'm going to put Bob D'Amico's comments in for the record regarding 690 East 8th Street. Ward 7 has front yard parking as well as lack of dimensional requirements. Thank you. Thank you, Mark. Welcome. Any other comments from the Board? May I hear testimony in support or opposition? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the Board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted in a butters meeting for 690 East 8th Street on September 21st, 2022. 10 butters attended the meeting. 3 Director butters expressed their support for the proposal. We received one letter from a Director butter who opposes the proposal because of the curb cut removing street parking at this time we'd like to defer judgment to the Board. Thank you. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the Board. I'm Anna Calderon from Council President Flingsoff. If the Councilor would like to go on recording support, the proposal received support from our neighbors due to the proponents through community engagement process. The Council and Human Support of the Proposal due to concerns on the safety of our seniors and accessibility to her vehicle and home especially during winter months with difficult conditions of snow and ice as well as positive feedback from her neighbors. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm sorry, I get it wrong. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry, I thought somebody was trying to get in. Madam Chair, I do have two letters of opposition. I don't have any letters of support but I do have two letters of opposition and regards to the project and regards to parking the nightmare. Does it indicate what the nature of the opposition is? Parking. Parking is a nightmare. Okay, thank you. I have no really any other reasons. May I enter the motion? Madam Chair, given that we heard from BTD that 7 foot 7 does not meet their standard. I'd like to put for a motion of denial. And I'm going to second that motion. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barranza. Yes. I to say yes motion carries. On to next case. Calling BOA 133 85146 towing street. Proposed this is a proposed driveway curb cut for Austria parking for two vehicles. The violation is article 10 section one, the limitation of air of accessory uses, article 50 section 43, Austria loading and parking. Location of the Austria parking is not permitted in the front yard. Article 50 section 43, Austria parking and loading, Austria parking design and maneuverability. Maybe not just for the record please. I move this can you unmute yourself? Yes. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Great. Good evening. I'm members of the boy. My name is Rufus Volk. I live at six thewing street. I am the home owner. I am proposing Austria parking. It would accommodate up to two vehicles. The best expression is the street is a cul-de-sex street. I have lived in this location for 27 years. Both my wife and I work every day and we come home and we cannot park in front of our house. We are parking off street. Most of the houses are single family. We are just asking that come home park in front of your house. It is just we are living in Rossbury. In the Fort Hill area it is just an increasing amount of non-resident parking on the street. Mostly single family. What we are experiencing is homes that are on the main street that enter sex thewing. Individuals are parking on the street and it is just creating a real tough time for us. Yes. I am open to any questions. Are there any residential requirements on your street? No. There are not any indications. I believe it has been proposed several times but it just hasn't happened. It is only parking on one side of the street. Yes. That is correct. Do you think parking stickers would alleviate your issue? I don't know that is the case but it has been over a decade since that has happened. It could possibly change the scenario. Certainly we would reduce the number of cars on the street especially overnight parking. Thank you. Ms. Betapurasa. Madam Chair, the drawings are somewhat adequate. I don't really have a good view of the depth of the driveway but what I do know is that it is still very narrow. It doesn't really meet BTD's driveway dimensions but I would like to hear from BTD of Mark Casano and Rebecca. I do not think they have it regarding six to one street. It does have front-yard parking and Bob Domingo from BTD request and I'll. Did he talk about the as a handsy-assed about the the whistle? No, we didn't go into detail. He just said it is front-yard parking. Madam Chair, I am sorry. This is the BAA ambassador. Can I just jump in as I was the Roxbury liaison? I could just speak to the process of trying to get resident parking on that street when I was a liaison between 2018. It's been really tricky. It's something that they've been advocating for for a few years. It has been really tough. A lot of people seem to be in support of off street parking on the street based on some of the feedback I got as a liaison but just wanted to throw that in there. It is a small street and I believe some people do have front-yard parking from not mistaken. Ms. Sepal, you can mention that for years they've been trying to get the resident parking. It's just been, you know, just a process. It's been tricky. If I may also add to this, BTD passed their resident parking programs since two years ago. Yes, and it's been sold ever since. So they're not letting any new requests through and they don't know when they're going to. I see. Because it's a very small street clearly. And I would like to also add back in 2012 when I applied. As a reminder, I was able to get the permit approved and for whatever family reasons I could not proceed with the work. And I'm hoping that the requirements haven't changed in that time. And the street is just continuing. It's just not getting getting better. I entertain the idea that a permit parking for Roxbury would be certainly helpful. But my neighbors right next to me, a budding or right next to me, has no issue. And we've had a conversation. And there is enough room. I don't drive a huge SUV. I drive a very minimal size car. And getting in and out of the vehicle is wouldn't be an issue for me. Madam Chair, Ms. Buraza, would one car fit adequately? Ms. Buraza? I, you know, minimum is 10 feet. But even if you don't have an option, a foot nine is like better. But a feet to me is still very narrow. Yeah, it's hard to look at the plans and read them. So just kind of I included some photos that you get the photographs that are included. We do it for it doesn't meet BTD standards. It's at a minimum. It should be 10 feet or at least a foot nine. But a feet is too narrow. There's just there's lots of room. I go on on this stand. Well, um, so we sorry, can we take public testimony? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair. I'm the board of the Entalibany, to what the mayor's office of neighborhood services. ONS, hosting the butters meeting on September 20th and no opposition was raised at this time or office like to go for judgment to the board. Thank you. I do have a question. Alexa, can you stay tonight? Hi, yeah, my name is Alexander Zakhenino. I live at 20th wing street. My parents live here as well. And I'm not sure if they're on this or not, but we fully support Rufus's request for this, whether it's too small, whatever, for BTD, there needs to be more parking. If people have space to park a car on their property, that would be ideal. The issue of resident parking stickers has been brought up at, you know, different neighborhood and, you know, aboutters meetings in this and that. It's very mixed big. Some people like the idea. Some people don't because that there's no parking for guests. There's a lot of houses on this street that don't have private parking areas at all. I don't know what a front yard parking is. Do you mean street parking or what is front yard parking? It just means that you can, it's visible from the street, right? It's that it's known. The front, your front, your parking is that it from your lot line, your parking of vehicle. And there should be some setback of parking from your front house. It's your front yard. So you have, if you have a car in your front yard, that's called front yard parking. And it's not allowed. Okay. But that's not the concern. That's that's one, that's one, because in the Google images that I see, I can see that you have depth. So one is your drawings are not adequately enough. This shows the whole lot, the depth of it. The other issue is you're literally, it's you're parking between two house structures that only have eight feet clearance. That is not safe. That's not safe. That is not as incorrect. The the eight foot dimension you're seeing is from my house to my property line. And from my property line to my neighbor's house is another three feet. Can we look at the survey drawings that you've submitted? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Well, I did not have a let's see. The survey drawing by Verre construction. He, within that drawing, you'll, well, yes, the store in here. Here we go. Yes. So what you're looking at, my house is on the right. There's a property line and you'll see that my neighbor's structure, my, my engineer. It sits, it sits out. Right. There's a foot six, but I do see that there's a line of brick that is, that is kind of on your property line. A line of brick that is. Just in some photos. It doesn't matter. I think I think we, we've no, there's no further questions. The property line that's visible on the drawing between that property line, my property line, and my neighbor's property line, that dimension to his house is clearly over three feet. So there's an offense. There's just surface there. So if I were to pull into the driveway, the, I could pull fully in the back end of my car would, I would have enough room to go into the driveway. It's clearly, in at least in my opinion, there's enough room to get into the driveway and the rear of my car would be basically off street parking. It would be beyond the corner of my house where it's the, the our head where it says parking surface. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Falk. I think let's continue with testimony and then we'll entertain a motion. Madam Chair, I think it was one other person that actually came in that's here. I said if any other public testimony, yes. Go ahead, Hernan. Hi, I am a neighbor and I live on a street that intersects Highland Street like Dwingt Street does. I just heard the record. My name is Tracy. My home, my home address is 39 folder street. Okay, go ahead. And what we're both experienced in is overflow of parking from Highland Street with rooming houses and short-term rentals and a lot of other state vehicles and also commercial commercial vehicles parking on folder and also on Valentine Street and then cutting through folder street to get the Highland and like Dwingt Street as well or any of the streets up the hill because of the parking is that bad. It's getting to the point where it is like south Boston parking. The ice street has several toll zones because it's a very narrow street as well and I'm in support because it would alleviate any help getting any vehicles off the street parking would help alleviate the problem because it gets worse in the winter because it is nowhere to throw the snow and what happens also is that people will entitled to block legal, you know, like I have two driveways and people block the driveway because it's a winter storm and there's nowhere to park, you know, so it's and I've been there 18 years, but I live in Roxbury since 1998, same, it's just gotten worse. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Miss J, just muted yourself. Sorry, I pressed the wrong button. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, given that BTD is concerned with front-ear parking and I didn't have enough adequate drawings to understand the depth for the proposal of two cars to park in that space, I would like to recommend that the applicant does a deferral to give them enough time to do a full plot plan and to show the two parking spaces. Yeah, I'm Miss Barazza, I would agree with you on that. I would go with standard denying it. I would definitely say they can defer it and try to figure out a better plan. A better site survey, correct with dimensions. I would like to, so my motion is for the applicant to defer, motion for deferral. I'll second that motion. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Miss Barazza? Yes. Chair Concurres, motion carries. You'll have a date of January 19 at 5 p.m. January 19. Yep, and please use that time to get a site survey to actually survey your hope property and to dimension the rear parking spaces would be and make sure it's not front-ear parking. Yes, I am. Okay, thank you. Appreciate it. I call you next case. Calling VOA 137-11012 Kyle Isle Street. This is creating a curb cut and constructing a new driveway for two vehicles, the violation of the Article 10 Section 1, the limitation of air of accessory uses, the Article 50 Section Part 3, mastery parking and loading. Name and address for the record please. This applicant on? Is there a Steven Stewart? Yes. What's somebody representing two Kyle? Eric, are you representing the applicant here? They didn't check in the earlier, so I'm sorry. Okay, we can come back to it. We'll do the last, we'll do the next case. Thank you. Calling case VOA 136-892337 Blakefield Street. This is an extension of the Second Floor Unit to add add to the attic as one unit, the violation is Article 65 Section 9, the Floor Unit Ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Is anybody on for Blakefield Street? Can you raise your hand if you want? Okay. Is anyone on for Blake 37 Blakefield please? Madam Chair, I guess that nobody's going on to these next two cases. I don't see any of the other cases. Anybody raising any hands? I'm going to call them back into the record and then welcome them. Thank you. Case VOA 137-11012 Kyle Isle Street. It's now 543. I'm going to make a motion for the Iowa Dalcredits. Can I have a second? I like to put, oh, that was a motion, I second. Thank you. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Baraza? Yes. Chair, concur, motion carries. And for the next case, calling VOA 136-8923-37 Blakefield Street, I'll make a motion for the tonight. It's now 543. I'll make a motion for the Iowa Dalcredits. I second that. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Betta Baraza? Yes. Chair, concur, motion carries. I think that concludes our subcommittee hearing. Thank you. Great job, Madam Chair. Yes, great job, Madam Chair. Yes, sorry for put your in your name. All right. Okay, name it. I will wonderful. Thank you. Good night. Thank you.