 Good evening. The city of Boston Board, zoning board of appeals hearing for January 19, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature regarding virtual hearings. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held virtually via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access the hearings through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as followed, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The committee will be allowed to comment on the number of people that are currently in the public. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. If you want to comment on the number of people that are currently in the public, please click the raise hand button again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you want to comment on the number of people that are currently in the public, please click the raise hand button again and your hand should be passed on to the board. If you want to comment on the number of people that are currently in the public, please click the raise hand button again and your hand should be passed on to the board. If you want to comment on the number of people that are currently in the public, please click the raise hand button again and your hand should be passed on to the board. Thank you. Is better browser. Present. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Lincoln. Okay, we have the hearings for five o'clock. Madam Chair, we have one request for a hearing to be deferred for 349 seven Hill. Is anyone here for that case? No one has checked in for no one has checked in. I read the case and then we they requested a they requested a denial without prejudice. I mean, I'm sure this is case B.O.A. 134429393497 Hill. And the refusal is for. Thank you. Article 65, section 65, eight, four area ratio and Article 65, section nine side yard insufficient and they requested a denial without prejudice for this. Thank you. May I have a motion. Madam chair, I'd like to put for a motion of denial without prejudice. Thank you. Ms. Beduraza. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Okay, the next case is B.O.A. 1363941. The address is 104 to 106 Trenton Street. This is article nine section two nonconforming use change and Article 53 section eight uses for bin for a local retail convenience store. This is to change use from a dry cleaner to a convenience store. Is anyone here? And if so, please state your name and address for the record. Madam chair, members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams of Irancy Business Adress of 168 H Street, South Boston. We're here today actually asking a request for a short deferral on this matter. We're meeting with the civic group of evil hill for a second time next week on the 25th. And the vote will be casted whether in support or opposition for our proposal in front of us. So again, we're here just to request a short deferral. All right. Thank you. May I have a motion? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I'll go ahead, David. Motion to defer. Thank you. Mr. Berraza. Second. Present. I mean, sorry. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Okay. Chair also says yes. Motion carries. Good. I just have a clarification. Do we have the second emotion in the three member? Yes. Second emotion. Right? Yes. I'll be seconding the motion. That's all right. We'll. Okay. Sorry. Okay. Thanks. Repeat repeating your names like five times. There's a date of February 16th for that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next case is. B.O.A. 1391407. The first one. It looks like this has a companion case also as B.O.A. 1408249. The first one 13914107 addresses seven Aemory Street. And. This is for to confirm occupancy is a one family house extend living space into the basement. Increased width of the existing dormer beyond eight feet. And complete interior renovations. And. There are four refusals article all article 62 section 19 neighborhood design overlay district. Design review neighborhood design overlay review requirement. Section 25 roof structure restrictions and section eight floor area ratio excessive. The second. It has fallen since 2001 until date 10915296. And what is going on here is. refr work of the floor section 19 to have a word on the floor Several negative signs. They're fake statement, show all the areas. Of the area Multiplans. Same description of the work. There are a refusals under article section 19. Of the design neighborhood design overlay district review. conformity building alignment. Section 25 roof structure restrictions. anyone here on behalf of the case? If so, please announce yourself and have your name and address for the record. Could I ask a quick quick question either for the applicant or for Mr. Brum? Is it Amri or Armory Street in Toronto? Yes. So it's just the written incorrectly. Amri and JP. Is it ARMOR? Yes. Thank you. Okay. Here to speak. Yes. Yes. Yes. My name is Nancy Lowe. Address 50 Franklin Street. Joining me is the property owner, George George, and our architect, Steven Concella. They should be also on the call as panelists. Can you walk us through the violations and what you're proposing? Sure. So both properties are side by side. It's in a historic, it's a historic area. It's not a landmark area, but it's a historic area in Charlestown. There are buildings are two and a half stories. There are one, one said they've been there for over a hundred years as a one family buildings. We have the local building inspector come out to confirm that both buildings are one family units. And Mr. George plans to rehab both buildings and provide them, you know, for housing in the Charlestown area. They both need a lot of work. And he's like stated earlier, they're going to expand the living space in the basement. Number seven is to increase the width of the dormer. They're not expanding any of the footprint. And like I said earlier, they are existing structures and basic, it's a renovation project. Thank you. And can you confirm after completion, they're both continued to be one families? Yes, they will be. Yes. Right. And what type of living space in the basement? It's a living room. What we're doing is what we're expanded into the basement and then we have a second means of being where it's out the back from the basement. It's a living room and a bathroom. Half bath, but I remember correctly. Great. Ms. Beduraza, I know you'll have some questions on height windows, etc. So I'll ask you if you've reviewed the plans. I have reviewed the plans and the project's pre-story forward. I have no further questions. Great. Thank you. Mr. Haken, any questions? No, I do not have any questions on this. Great. Thank you. In that case, I will take public testimony. Is there anyone here to speak in support or opposition? Okay. That's something. Are you speaking? No, I'm. Oh, yeah, I'm the Madam Chair and Members of the Board, Sean Green from the Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of the mayor, I just like to defer judgments of the board this time, some background information. The applicant posted subcommittee files in our office received no feedback from residents. Thank you. Any other testimony? Francis? If I can, I received an email from the butter from the owner of Nine Armory Street in support. I thought that maybe that had been submitted, but probably not. I could send that in tomorrow if you want. Mr. Haken, do you have anything on file? Yes, Madam Chair. Yes, thank you. We do have that. We do have that letter in support, and that's the only letter that's been received. Right. Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, can I also request if we have a BPDA on a record? Sorry. Yes. Is there anyone from BPDA? Madam Chair, this time I don't think we have it over here. We might have to help Jeffrey on there as Jeff Hampton or not. Okay. I think we have, we haven't done that in a while. Madam Chair, we do have the recommendation. It's to recommend to prove with design review for attention to the door of our size and its profile. Great. Does that answer your question? Yes. I would be asking for each project if there was a BPDA recommendation. Excellent. Then I'll be happy to try to find it and read it then. Okay. We have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve with BPDA design review, paying special attention to the door of our profile. Thank you. May I have a second? A second. Thank you. Not only through us, so Ms. Beter-Raza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes, it seems like it's in conformance with sort of the overall neighborhood character. Thank you. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. The next case is BOA 14175-8HC addresses 101 Baldwin Street. This is to amend the prior alteration permit. Phase two of a newly proposed route plan per plan submitted. This is an article 62 section 25 roof structure restriction violation. With the applicant, please state their name and address for the record. Hello. My name is Sean Tracy from 101 Baldwin Street. I'm here with my wife, Isabel Green. I'm also on the call is Paris Bunkers, our architect and Ben Osloven Pierce from fresh start contracting. Excellent. Can you just let us know briefly what your proposal entails? Yeah, so I think if we had done to page H, it kind of gives the best view. So what we're looking to do is add a front and back dormer. So yeah, maybe next page down. Kurt. Yep. So currently we're using the space. I was just like a home office and some storage, but with the rear and front dormer, it would create 560 square feet of livable space. So we're looking to add two bedrooms and a bathroom up there to accommodate our growing family. Yeah, design wise, we tried to keep it consistent with kind of looking feel of similar dormers in the neighborhood. And yeah, that's kind of the idea at a high level. Okay, and Mr. Tracy, the violation talks about roof structure and it mentions that you're seeking to propose roof. So is that related or different parts of it? I believe the violation is just like if you're changing the roof structure at all. And to go to the bathroom, I guess as we're adding the dormer and so on. Miss Betapuraza, do you have any questions about the plans? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. I did have a question regarding what was the height of the basement? The height of the basement? Correct. From the floor to the ceiling. So I'm not entirely sure off the top of my head. Is your architect here? Pirate or Ben, much you know? Can you hear me? Yes. I'm just scanning through the plans. This has been from fresh start contracting. The height is going to be finished. What's going to be seven feet finished down there? Okay, great. Thank you. No further questions. Thank you. And just to read BPDAs recommendation is approval with provisal. The plans be submitted to the agency for design review with special attention to materials, addition and dormer size and profile. Mr. Aiken, any questions? No, but Ben, I'm sure we have two letters of support and one that was in opposition, but only if there was a setback violation. That's not the case here. So there's two letters of support and one in one opposition. Great. Thank you. Public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Green from the Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of the mayor, our office would like to defer judgment to the board at this time. Some background information on the community process. The applicant posted subcommunities and we received two letters in favor and one in opposition. Residents in favor. It's wanted to see the house renovated. The one letter we got in opposition was based off of opposition to any variance. Variance is granted for a rare yard setback. So. Got it. Thank you. Any other testimony? Here on the chair. I'm going to go ahead. I have one raised hand. Great. I have a chair. Yes. I'm here for the meeting now. How? Paris. You've been unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record, please. Paris. There. Just figured it out. Sorry. Have you had to grab a sleeping baby? State your name and I'll just for the young record, please. Paris, bonkers. And I am. Miss bonkers, what's your address and are you here to speak in support or opposition? My address is 314 bunker hill street and I am in favor for. The building. I'm not sure. I'm just the architect for the building. I'm not trying to do a public comment. Sorry. I was. Okay. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Would they ask for the height of the basement? Got it. Okay. Thank you. Sorry. Sorry. But that's all. Madam chair. All right. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve with the BPD per viso that the plans are submitted for design review with attention and materials. The addition and dormer-size and profile. I second. Great. Araza second. Great. Miss Betar Baraza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next case is BOA 139 6700 and this is for 143 Monstreet. This is to this is for removing the proviso only that was granted to the prior the prior petitioner. Quiring existing fast food restaurant use layout will stay the same as a fast food burger restaurant. There will be branding changes. The article six section four other protectional conditions remove the proviso is the violation. Right. And just also BPD is a recommendation is approval. Since there are no plan changes, I'll just ask if the board members have any general questions. I just want to make sure if there's anyone here from the applicant they have a chance to Oh, yeah. Thank you. Sorry. Thank you. An address into the record. Dr. Gunn. Sorry. Yes. My name is Yusuf Abraham. I work. I live at a 26 Highland, Nave in Somerville. Great. And can you. And if I could, I'm Bernard Shadre Shadre and Shadre 88 Broad Street sweet 103 Boston mass representing Mr. Eberham. And what this is is basically one restaurant operation that currently is existing at 131 Tremont Street. They've lost their lease. U burger, which is the original applicant under the original board of appeal case. The proviso in it that it was for that user only is giving up their lease. And I'm not sure if they're going out of business or exactly what they're doing, but we would be taking over the space. And it would be the existing space for the existing hours of operation and the existing occupancy with virtually no changes other than a few minor kitchen changes and things like that. All of the permits are in the process of being applied for and including the Comma Vitulus license, which is pending this hearing, of course. One of the questions we have is whether or not it is still applicable that January 31st is actually the hearing where the decision gets decided. This subcommittee recommends to the board on January 31st or whether or not. That's correct unless Tom wants to correct me. That's correct Madam Chair. We just, you know, the subcommittee makes a recommendation. The full board adopts it. We don't technically make the applicants attend the 31st hearing. Usually they'll take them to the breeder not attend if they don't want to. I see. Okay, but they could they could my client, for example, could attend. Of course he could attend, but we but we just read all of the recommendations together. So we would not be asking individual applicants to speak. No, cut tonight. We also have submitted certain letters of approval and support. Okay. And so this basically is just moving one. Similar restaurant to another restaurant is both eaten and take out. Any questions from the board? No questions. No, nobody have chair. I don't have any questions and there are a few letters of support here, including a letter from Councillor Flynn. Great. Thank you. With that, I'll take public testimony. Is there anyone here to speak in support for opposition of the project? Good afternoon, Madam Chairwoman Sherry Dong. And members of the board. My name is Chulan Huang from the Married's Office of the Neighborhood Services. There was no about us being closer for this proposal, but I did have to meet with the Downside Residence Association and the Downside Mossin bid, which they have secured a lot of support from both. At this time, we would like to defer judgments to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other testimony? Madam Chair, I do have one raised hand. Great. Let's hear from them. Ed, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. Hi, my name is Laura Toledano and I'm here from Council President Flynn's Office. Council President Flynn would like to go in record and support based on feedback from neighbors and their proponents attention to issue of public safety, trust removal, temporary hours, and other quality of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. That's all, Ed. Great. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Can I have a second? Yes. Great. Ms. Bedvaraza? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes, it seems just fine. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a great night. Okay. The next case is BOA 1405814. The address is 647 Boilston Street. This is for interior renovation of existing commercial business tenant space. Scobo work includes minor interior demolition, new walls, doors, millwork, new lighting, new plumbing for a coffee shop use. No food will be prepared on site. The violation is Article 8 Section 3 for conditional use. They're applying for a coffee shop, which is a conditional use. With the applicant, please. And on some cells and read their name and address in for the record. Does anyone hear on behalf of 647 Boilston Street? Yes. And I'm sorry. I was on mute. Good evening, everyone. My name is Andes Cans of 647 Boilston Street. Great. Can you tell us a little bit about your proposal? Absolutely. So we're a originally New York based company. We actually have two locations operating in Boston already. This was our first change of use in terms of real estate. So we previously have only taken over existing F&Bs. So this is kind of a new process for us. So essentially, we're doing a takeout only cafe at 647 Boilston Street. Very, very similar to what we're doing already on Cambridge and Charles streets. Again, no food prepared on site. We're using local vendors, all third party to live it and served on the day itself. We're going to organize daily trash pickup. We're working with the landlord, obviously, to store the trash in a existing space until the pickup happens. So no entry or exit from vendors from the street side of things as well. Great. What's the current use or what's the use your taking? It was a game stop. A game stop. Ms. Berberasa, any questions on the plans? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Thank you. Any other questions from members of the board? No, but Madam Chair and Ms. Berberasa, there's a letter of non-opposition from the Neighborhood Association in the back bay. And the BPDA does not seek any further review. Thank you. Okay, thank you. With that, I'll have to, I'll take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, call on our Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office, like deferred to the judgment of this board. Some backformation of the community process are offices unaware of any concerns from neighbors and the butters. And as Mr. Secretary mentioned, nab submitted a letter in non-opposition to this proposal. With that, we deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Great. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, you've read the BPDA recommendation. Yes, it was a schedule. Okay, that's right. Motion to, I'd like to put forward a motion approval. May I have a second? Yes. Ms. Berberasa? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes, seems like a use consistent with the neighborhood. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Okay, the next case is BOA 1349367. The address is six park lane. This is the build out of an existing third floor space to include a new dormer and exterior deck. There are four violations under Article 55, all section 9. Floor area ratio, excessive building height, excessive a number of stories, front yard insufficient and rear yard insufficient. With the African, please state their name and address. Okay. Is the out of the six park lane present? Yes, so case has to act in and Chris possible. Chris? He's muted. He's a panel speaking on mute itself. Yeah, he can. Chris Haasford, architect, office 116 St. Patel Street, Boston. So the project is an attic build out of an existing space. The nonconformities are existing. There's no new nonconformities. One correction is on the original application. There was a dormer that's been removed. So the whole renovations within the existing volume of the house. Thank you. Ms. Bedar-Barranza, have you had a chance to review the plans? Yes, I've reviewed the plans in the drawings. You're adequate. Thank you. And just BPDAs recommendation for your reference is approval with design review. Mr. Aiken, any questions? No, I just like to hear from any community process, but I don't have any questions. I can speak to that. I mean, no one can ask his own as present to speak on that. Yes, Madam Chair. Okay, so we'll have ONS when we do the testimony speak to that. So with that, I'll hear from Mr. Newman. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, our office facilitated a butters meeting on October 6, 2022. This project moves swiftly through the community process, managing the gain support from direct to butters and the zoning subcommittee of the Jamaica Plane Neighborhood Council. At this time, the Mayor's Office, like you referred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other testimony and supporter opposition? I do not have any raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have the motion? Madam Chair, go ahead, David. A motion to approve with BPDAsign review. May I have a second? I second that. Thank you, Ms. Betapuraza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair Osso votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. And we'll move on to BOA 1359736, the addresses 1236 to 1238, Dorchester Avenue. This is for extending. Let's see, this project was approved by the licensing board and they extended the patio into the private parking lot with approval of the landlord in June of 2020 and seeking permanent approval to increase capacity from 40 to 70 people. The violations article 65 section 41 is related to our street parking and loading and accessible rules. Did we skip over 349? Oh, no, they defer, sorry. My bad, go ahead. Correct. That's it. So the applicant can provide their name and address and tell us a little bit about about us. Appreciate it. A Mitchell Hayes of 30 temple place in Framingham. Great. King of Locks. Yes. In June 2020 when we reopened from the pandemic, we had a small 40 seat patio, which was not quite enough in order to be able to let us survive that terrible time for restaurants. So with the approval of the temporary, like the licensing board, we built an expanded temporary patio and we're looking to now keep that area opening up to 78 seats total, which is what we've been able to do for the last three years. We have a unanimous approval from the Columbia Seven Health Civic Association, along with support from City Council of Baker. It's an area that we now use to do fundraisers to host community events and we just would like to be able to continue to do so. Great. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? I do just have just a clarification. I'm trying to locate the outdoor kind of expansion. Is it really looking at the corner to the rear? If you follow the building line on the right hand side of the indoors and go straight up to the left of that dashed line with our old patio to the right that extends into the parking line is the new section. Do you lose any parking spaces in that expansion? And that's I think why the violation was there. We had 19 spaces including one handicap before the pandemic. Ever since we did build this, we have 16 spaces including one handicap. Okay, perfect. Okay, no further questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? All right, great. With that, may I have a public testimony? Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment of the board. As you heard from the applicant, they went through a community process securing support from the local civic association for that area, the Columbia, Savin Hill Civic Group. We are unaware of any concerns from the neighborhood. The loss of parking seemed minimal in the eyes of many residents. So with that, we deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other testimony? No, raise your hands, Madam Chair. Okay, and BPD, a recommendation is approval. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I just have one question first for the applicant. They just confirm that they're all the accessible Rootsers still there and that tables will be on accessible Roots. Yes. Thank you. Following that, do you have screening and a periphery and how tall is that? There is a barrier outside of all of the patio. It's the same head as it was before. I don't have the exact dimensions to probably as on those plans. I would guess around seven feet. That's a six foot venting. For certain pushes. Okay, thank you. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? With that, I like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a, go ahead. May I have a second? Yes. Yes. Ms. Betabaraza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Best of luck. Thank you. Okay, the next case is BOA 139 6190. The address is 302 to 316 vote in street. This is to remove the proviso from the prior practitioner. That is the only violation. Is the applicant here and can they announce their name and address? Please. He has locked in Wayne. Wayne. Hi, Wayne. Can you unmute yourself, Mr. Aikenson? He's here, but muted. I keep asking. Can you unmute yourself, Mr. Aikenson? Hello. Yes, some reason I'm not here to able to hear anyone. Can you hear us now? Mr. Aikenson? All right, it looks like he's having a technical issues. I think we can table this and come back to it. Yeah, why don't we move forward and then hopefully maybe he can log off and log back on? Give him a shot before we get to the rediscussions. Yep. Okay, the next case is BOA 1363414. The address is 132 to 138 Park Street. This is to add a beauty salon and an existing beauty supply at 1530. Dorchester Avenue. I'm not sure the address description. This is for a conditional use under Article 65 Section 8 for a beauty salon use. Is the applicant here? Can you provide your name and address for the record, please? Yes, I am here. Hi, my name is. Yeah, go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes, my name is Nadez Marcelin. So it was a beauty supply before and I'm planning on having the record. I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Marcelin, can you put your name, your address into the record? On my address, 1530 to just to add. Okay. Yes, all right. 1530 to just to add 30. Yes, so it was a beauty supply before and then we are putting a beauty salon in the space. It's to change our book of pens. Okay, are there any questions from the board? No, it's not. I did review the drawings and I just had a concern of accessibility. I mean, it's, you know, it's zoning or not really triggering accessibility, but I just wanted to point out that if there's a possibility in the space planning, if you don't separate the uses to allow for anyone to access your service, so that it's mostly a comment. Do you mean about the sample station and the has on the front and the back? Yes, I'm just making an observation that it's not currently accessible, those uses and that I would just recommend that you just work out the plan a little bit to ensure that your users can have access to those different stations. The good thing now is like, is like for wash here normally. They have the portable stuff that myself I'm doing here so long and I use the, I do home service too, so I really take care of, um, and to have like everybody. So I really, it's a very good suggestion, but we do have portable stuff. Okay, perfect. And similar to your manicure, the ability that one can start. Yes, it's just a comment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Was that, uh, I'll open it up to testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is also like to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office had the applicant flyer, uh, butters, uh, which did not receive any concerns from the neighborhood. They also went with the met with the Fields Corner Civic Association, where they received support for this proposal, uh, with that we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other testimony? Madam Chair, I do have one raised hand. Ashley, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. Ashley? Hi, state your name and address for the record, please. So this is for, um, 312 to 316 board, in street. She, she's late. Sorry, she's, uh, she's the liaison. I'm not there. The board just there. So, okay. I actually was, is, is looking forward to testifying for, for Bowdoin Street. Um, actually, we've just jumped ahead to a different one. We'll be circling back for Bowdoin. Thank you. With that, is there anyone else who wishes to speak in favor in support or opposition to this proposal? Okay. Hearing none, I will entertain a motion. Madam Chair, I do have two questions for the applicant. One is, um, is this, are you keeping a building supply and adding a salon or changing from a supply to a salon? Um, usually a beautiful salon, we do have retail. So therefore, it's already a beautiful supply because we do have products to sell to customers. Therefore, it's, um, if I can say that, we still are going to have products for consumers to have. Yes. Okay. Thank you. And there's the address, 1530 Dorchester app or 132 to 138 Park Street. It's registered from by the landlord and the owner on this, on the, when I went to the, um, to the 10 months have that the address. But for, um, like for business purposes, it's 1530 Dorchester, but it's 130 for that's how it's registered in the city. This space. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much. Any other questions before we take a motion? All right. With that, may I have a motion? I'm sure I like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Ms. Bedburaza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes, it appears to be a compatible use. Uh, chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, BOA 131353, the addresses 301 Adam Street. This is to remove a provisional that was granted to the prior petitioner, article six, section four. Granted to the petitioner, the prior petitioner only for the conditional use. Yeah, because the applicant here can they provide their name and address please. Hello. Yes. Do you hear me? We sure can. Can you provide your name and address for the record and then just tell us a little bit about your plans? Yes, my name is Manor the Rosa, 3o Adam Street. So I just about this business. Do you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Yes, everything is going to keep the same with the all the owner. So I just want to change the provisional to put on my name. So are you changing the use? It looks like on how long used to be there the Vietnamese restaurant or No, no, everything is the same. I'm not going to change anything. Okay, I see. Any other questions from the board? No, no questions for me. Mr. Aiken, any questions? No. Okay, with that, I will take public testimony. I have no raised hands, ma'am chair. Okay, with that, I will entertain a motion. Make a motion to approve. I second. Thank you. Mr. Miss Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay, the next case is BOA 1393784. This is to create a bedroom. I'm sorry, 45 Cedar Street and Dorchester. This is to create a bedroom by installing a window well and window as per the plan in the lower level, which is at grade. This triggers an article 65 section 9 for area ratio excessive violation. Can the applicant please read their name and address into the record? Good evening, ma'am chair, members of the board. I'm Robert Nichols here for 45 Cedar Grocery and Dorchester. And just to clarify, we actually did get a variance for the FAR, but there was a proviso on there that the living space in the lower level would not allow a bedroom. So we came back to remove the proviso. My apologies when we re-pulled the permit, we forgot to include that initially. Sorry, so you want to include a bedroom in the basement? Is that what you're saying? Correct. And I think it's important to note the basement level, lower levels at grade for this property. So when you park in the driveway, you walk directly into the house right at street level. And the ceiling height in there is over eight feet as well. And when we purchased the property, you actually had two bedrooms in the lower level, but we did with third story edition. And so in doing so, we got the FAR increased with the prior variance, but again, wanted to include the lower level and have a bedroom down there as well. Great. Thank you. Ms. Betapuraza, have you reviewed the plans? Yes, every view that drawings and their adequate, and it's fine. Thank you. Mr. Aiken, any questions? No, so I think can they just clarify so the proviso was in a prior decision from the board? Yes, that's a fair time. Yes, yeah. And can you explain, I guess, why that, why that do have some history? Was there a process that resulted in that being put in there? No, I'll be honest. I didn't even think to ask to not have a put in it was at the end of the hearing. And it was suggested that the eyes will be added. I think by default, maybe because it wasn't clearly communicated that the lower level was at grade. So I think it was just a recommendation at the time. Yes, Mr. Aiken, that's more of a historical matter from the board and the basement bedrooms. Right. But I mean, typically, they just want to, the previous board just wanted to make sure that there was enough light and air to habitable rooms that you're not sleeping in dungeons. But I think the drawings that I reviewed show it completely at grade that basement levels. I don't see any issues with that. Yep. Thank you. With that, may I have a testimony in support or opposition? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office likes to defer to the judgment of the board. During the community process, neighbors expressed support for this proposal. We did have one person alleged though that work had already been done in the basement. Still, like I said before, butters were in support and they went on to the local civic association, which I believe is Cedar Grove and received their support as well. With that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Francis, anyone else? Nope, there are no raised hands down, Chair. Great. And the BPD recommendation for your references approval. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'll like to put forward a motion of approval. Madam the second. Yes. Ms. Bada Buraza? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. The next is BOA 1411481. The address is 1724 to 1740 Dorchester Avenue. This is removing a previous proviso. That's under article six section four. With the applicant, please provide their name and address and describe the change. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Sadeena Kiros and I'm here with my husband, Stepno Kwarecima, as well as Mike Folen, who is an eight butter and the president of the St Mark's Civic Association. We are the new owners and we would like to remove the proviso of the previous restaurant, Ziajana, to open our new restaurant via Canocha. Got it. I'm assuming no changes to interiors, etc. Correct? No. All right. So I won't ask about plans. Any other questions from the board? This is for 1724. In terms of the basement, what's the height? Actually 1739, but the landlord owns 1724 to 1740, but then the restaurant is at 1739. Okay. For the basement level, I think I, if my memory is correct, I think the heights were very low. Can you just remind me what the height was for the basement? It's eight and a half feet. It's pretty. Almost nine feet tall. Nine feet tall. Nine feet tall. Okay. And what's happening in the basement? Hi, my name is Stepno. So in the basement, basically was already approved for the previous restaurant has a prep area because the kitchen upstairs is really small. So they only seem that we have available for the prep variables downstairs. And that's it. That's all we have. The rest is storage. Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you. Welcome. Any other questions from the board? All right. Hearing none, I have a public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the nearest office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is off like to defer to the judgment of the board. This applicant went through a community process, meaning with St. Mark's civic association when they received their support. They also were approved by the licensing board as well. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time, but that would defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Is there anyone else to speak and support or opposition? Hi, my name is Michael Thorin. I'm an aborder and I'm also president of the St. Mark's civic association. I'd like to go and song support. Thank you. No raised hands, Madam Chair. Excellent. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion from the board? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that there'll be no building co-villation at the basement. Mr. Is there a second? Yes, I'll second that. Great. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries with that proviso. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, the next case is BOA 1395268. The address is 1017 River Street. And this is in Hyde Park. This is seeking to change the occupancy to offices for mothers for justice and equality. No work will be done. Existing conditions remain. This is Article 69 Section 8. This is a forbidden use for the applicant. Please announce their name and record and address. And thanks, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the mothers for justice and equality and 1017 River Street. With me on the call as well to answer any questions, is the founder and president, Mona Lisa Smith of mothers for justice and equality. As was mentioned, the proposal as we're seeking to change the occupancy from residential to offices for this group. Just by way of background, the mothers for equality and justice is a non-profit. They purchased this property to use it for administrative offices and to have some of their programming that might come out of there. Their main office is at 2201 Washington Street in Boston. So this would be a satellite office for administration. The proposal does not include, as was mentioned, there's no changes to the existing structure. This historically has been used as commercial space. There was medical offices used out of here in a constables office prior to them purchasing it. Just was never zoned properly. The mothers for justice and equality is a non-profit. As was mentioned, their mission is to end neighborhood violence by empowering both mothers and youth. So they run a lot of education and training programs. This, however, would be administrative office only. The layout that we're looking at is existing floor plans. And that would house at the lower level, would be the break room, offices, bathrooms, some storage and mechanical space. This is the first floor, would include a waiting room, conference room, office sitting area, kitchen and bath. On the second floor, additional offices, sunroom and bathroom. And on the third floor, offices and storage. So this would all be converted for administrative office and meeting rooms. We did get the support of the Hyde Park Neighborhood Association through our meeting process as well. We're here to answer any questions that the board may have. Great. And was the previous, the most recent previous use also some sort of non-conforming business type use? From what we could see, Madam Chair, was always like medical office. There is parking. This falls in the corner of River Street and Metropolitan Ave. There is an existing driveway that can house two to four spaces. It goes around the back. There'd be about four to five staff members at any given time at the site. Any questions about the plans? Ms. Pettabarasa? No, the plans are adequate. No questions. Thank you. Is there any questions? I do have a question. You're just described a little bit more some of the other uses that are nearby. Are there other offices? So it's predominantly residential, although in the immediate area, it is a 2F-5,000 zone. As you go down River Street, there are more storefronts and commercial and larger apartment style commercial buildings. But the immediate area is resident. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Here are public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, this is Danielle Funseko with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I conducted a butters meeting for this project on October 20th of 2022. The butters that were in attendance at that meeting had no issue with this proposal. They were in support. They also went before the High Park Neighborhood Association in November and received a letter of support that has been shared with the board for review. Mona Lisa and her team have also been actively involved in the community. Since entering High Park and have attended various different neighborhood associations as well, our office has received no opposition for this proposal and at this time we wish to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Funseko. What do you mean Madam Chair, I'm going to board the Board of the Board of the Free Acerps and Councilor O'Carteau of Royals Office. We like to go back to the full support. Thank you. Is there any other testimony in support or opposition? No, Vice-Tan's been a Chair. Thank you. Hearing none, so just the Ms. Berraza BPD recommends approval. So with that may I have a motion from the board. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Ms. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Best of luck to you. Thank you very much, Members of the Board. Thank you. Okay, the next is BOA 1370974. The address is 378 to 380 Centra Street and Jamaica Plain. This is a remove proviso to the prior petitioner. Under Article 8 section 3 for conditional uses. With the applicant, please provide their name and address and describe the request. Hi, my name is Douglas Salazar and I am requesting to take out the old owner and to add myself to it. Basically no changes either in the restaurant. What's the current restaurant and what are you proposing? I'm sorry. Excuse me. Excuse me. As far as equipment goes in there, as far as food, what I'm doing is as far as food. I'm doing vegan and vegetarian and also regular Mexican food. So it's Mexican food. Thank you. And are there any changes to the interior that you're doing? No, none at all. Okay, any questions from the members of the board? Trying to add a bit of questions. Thank you. Are there any changes to the hours that are proposed? 10 to 11. I think community's been fine with that. Yeah, I had the abutters meeting and then I had I went to whatever meetings that I had to go through and they are. I didn't have no one to get to it. Thank you. Oh, and I believe I should be on here to talk speak to that Mr. Aiken. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? With that, may I hear public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This African has gone under extensive community process. They managed to receive support from the already established businesses in that of the JPMC zoning committee. Zoning subcommittee. Excuse me. At this time, the Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other raised hands? No raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'd like to put forward a motion, Madam Chair of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Ms. Beter-Raza? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay, the next case is BOA 1384419. The address is 22 Mertel Street. To make a plane, this is to construct a larger dormer on the third floor. Renovate bathrooms, upgrade. Some other elements of the house and plumbing and electrical are included. The violations article 55 section 9 of building height is excessive. With the applicant, please provide their name and address and description for the record. Yeah, my name is Mike Joge and I live in 17 Lincoln, Chiron,,, and Canton. But we're here actually with the homeowner as well in regard to 22 Mertel Street and to make a plane. And she's actually her name is Maryl and she's actually here and would like to start it off. Great. If you could share your plans, that would be fantastic. Sure. Hi, good evening. My name is Mariel Gonzales. I live at 22 Mertel Street to make a plane. This is a single family house that I plan to live in with my family, my husband and my daughter. And the third floor has two finished rooms. However, the only way to access those two rooms is a very steep and unsafe stairway that doesn't have a landing on the third floor. It's basically just a gap between the two rooms. What we'd like to do is to replace the two existing dormers with a shed dormer that gives the needed headroom to build safer stairs so we can fully access the rooms there on the third floor. Great. Thank you. Miss Barraza, have you reviewed the plans? I'm sure I have reviewed the plans in the drawing to adequate. Are there any other questions from the board? I can just throw something in there too as well. I'm the general contractor. You know, to just, you know, how steep these stairs are, you know, they're 11 foot risers. I mean, 11 inch risers. So it's very steep. You know, two railings on each side. It's only, you know, a 29 inch wide as well. And it's just, yeah, it really, to put it in layman's terms, it feels like you're walking on the, you know, the top jack of a ferry boat. So yeah, and in order to, you know, in order to get that safe, yeah, we just need to, you know, build the shed dormer. That's it. Thank you. All right. Any other questions from the board? With that, Mayor, Mayor here testimony in supporter opposition. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of the board. As for the information, this applicant went through a community process where they achieved support from the neighborhood. They also met with the JPNC zoning subcommittee and received their support as well. This time, the Mayor's Office likes to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Any other testimony? We also received a letter of support from the butter. Mr. Aiken, do you have those in the record? Yes, Madam Chair, we have one letter of support here. Thank you. And with that, a BPDA's recommendation is approval with the provisive design review, with particular attention to the design of proposed dormer. Are there any other questions from the board? With that, I'll entertain a motion. Make a motion to approve with the proviso that the plans are submitted to the BPDA for design review, with particular attention to the design of the dormer. I see. Thank you, Ms. Bedabaraza. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes, this request seems reasonable for the use of the house. Thank you, Chair. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Good luck with those. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. In the next case, BOA 1386357, the addresses 56 Boilson Street and Jamaica Plain. This is for the construction of a new rear deck. The Violet Chas Article 55, Section 9, and sufficient side yard. With the applicant, please provide their name and address for the record and describe the project. Chris Haas, Ford Architect, Helios Design Group, 116 St. Patel Street, Boston, Bing John and Jennifer also on the call, the owners. This is the project's- I would like to introduce the project. Go ahead. The project is basically extension of existing rear second-storey support. Basically, we're extending a new deck, basically in line with the existing house, which is existing, not conforming. And we're inserting it a little bit, but that's really where the the violation is drawn as from the existing architecture. Is better browser. Have you reviewed the plans? Madam Chair, I have reviewed the plans and the drawings are adequate. Mr. Aiken, any questions? No. With that, may I hear it with the testimony? Is there public testimony? There is, sorry, Madam Chair. I'm trying to juggle between a couple of different things here. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer judgment to this board. Our office facilitating a butters meeting on August 10th, where the applicant, their team met and listened to and address concerns and questions from directed butters. This proposal went on to the JPMC's Oning Subcommittee back in August and received their support along with some directed butters. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Is there any other testimony? Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Ms. Betabraza? Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Are we circling back to the previous case? Thank you. I'll read BOA 1396190, address 302-316 Bowdoin Street. This is for removal of a proviso under Article 7, Section 3 for a condition for a variance. Is the applicant here and if they can provide their name and address, please? I am here. I'm Wayne Eakinson, 12 Winston Road, Dorchester Mass. Great. Can you just confirm what you're planning to do? Well, basically, we're going to open up a wing shop. It was previously a fish market and a fish sandwich shop. We're just asking to remove the proviso so we can take over and do what we need to do. Great. Is there any interior work that you're doing? I'm knowing, Tavia, where it just caused me to get... Okay. Great. Any questions from the board? No questions. Charms are adequate. No questions. Thank you. May I hear a public testimony? Ashley? Good evening. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Ashley Goomes. I'm in Dorchester, Laison. I'm an office of Naval Services. I'm a faculty mayor. I'm an office of like to defer just one report at this time. Some things, the support for our butters and main streets have been supported. We've heard about butter, civics, and support of the local main streets and all their support has been decided as well and supported to this project. Thank you, Ashley, and welcome. Thank you. Any other testimony? No other race hands, no, Chair. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? I have a motion to approve. I second. Thank you. Ms. Betabraza? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay, we'll move on to the rediscussions. Just to check, is there anyone here for those for any of these projects under rediscussions that wants to defer or request a withdrawal? I'm sorry. I do have a 37 Jenkins. I made these for but he's not accepting. Let me see. That's on me. I don't know if I'm seeing it right. This is attorney Ryan Spitz. I'm here for 37 Jenkins. Okay. Thank you. Okay. BOA 1330550 addresses 37 Jenkins Street. This in South Boston, this is to change use from a single family to a two family with proposed additions and renovations. There are four violations. Our article 13, three-dimensional regulations with floor area ratio excessive rear yard and sufficient and building height excessive and usable open space and sufficient. There's a note about building code review but doesn't look like that's a request here. Go ahead, Mr. Spitz, your address and obviously name for the record. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marante business address of 168th Street First floor, South Boston. With me today is the architect Shane Loci from Chu and Associates. This proposal in front of us today is to change the occupancy from a single family to a two family dwelling with ground floor parking for two vehicles by way of renovation and in addition. The proposal is located within an L1 zoning sub district which is from the old base code of South Boston. We have four violations that were read into record. FAR 1.0 is what is allowed and we're proposing a 1.79. We do have a rear yard violation. You can see that the existing backyard has a deck that fills the entire dimension of the yard. The new proposal will now allow for some green space in the rear. Under the shallow lot reduction when less than 100 feet deep, it would require the proposal to provide 12.5 feet under section 20-8. In this plan, proposes a rear yard setback of 12.5 feet. So I believe this violation was in error. Building height is excessive 35 feet and three stories is what is compliant. We're proposing 39.75 feet and four stories. You have a usable open space violation. This 400 square feet is what is compliant. Our proposal calls for 264. In the original plans, the open space was compliant but during the community process, we had to remove two decks due to the concerns of the neighbors. So that's what has given us the open space violation. One thing that I do want to point out, this L1 zoning sub district is very close proximity to Article 68 which governs the majority of South Boston. Our FAR and our height violation would actually be in line with Article 68. I want to go run through the plans now. The ground floor will consist of a garage to park two vehicles. Mr. Spitz, can I just interject? So for your, just for your rediscussion and all of the rediscussions, if you could just remind the board why you're back before us, you know, has anything changed from the previous, you know, time you were here, etc. That would be helpful. Thank you. So during the community process, we removed those decks and we made some slight changes of, as you'll see, is when I go through the the plans itself. We added some solar ready zones to the actual roof line and there was a misadvertisement. The original set of plans and not the revised set of plans were advertised so we had to take a deferral to allow for a new advertisement. Thank you. So I'm going to continue to I'll continue running through the the plans now here. The ground floor would consist of a garage to park two vehicles, which will be accessed by a new proposed 10 foot wide curb cut. In the rear of the garage, you'll notice that we we provided a new designation location for a trash storage with a trash compactor. Walkways will also be heated to help with any sort of snow melting unit one will be approximately 900 13 square feet, which will consist of the second floor. It will be a two bedroom unit unit two is approximately 1635 square feet, consist of the third and the fourth floor. It will be a three bedroom with the study in a family room. And again, as I previously stated, the roof plan consists of solar ready zones. At this point in time, I'm going to open it up for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Ms. Bedbaraza, have you reviewed the plan? I have reviewed the plans. Thank you. When you requested a motion to defer, were you in front of the full board? No, I was not in front of the full board. I was I was directed that I had to take a motion because the advertisement was not accurate. Okay. Can you talk a little bit about the your first ground floor in terms of how it works with parking? Yes. So if we scroll to, I believe it is, let me the ground floor is on page. So if we scroll down to page five of the plans and the yellow on the left hand side, we'll be the actual first floor. So we'll be entering into the garage. And as you can see, as we're going to continue to go from the garage, there's two parking spaces. Can you please go to the can you please go to the first floor, the ground floor that shows the parking, the new proposal. This is existing. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So in the yellow that first floor plan there. So as you see, as we will be entering through Jenkins Street on the right hand side as coming down Jenkins Street, we'll turn into the first floor. The two parking spaces will be located towards the rear of the building. But in the furthest rear of that ground floor is where that dedicated room will be for storage for the trash compactor. And along that street, what I'm seeing on the Google is you don't really have a condition where you have a curb cut and parking is access to a garage, typically is on is on the side of the building. Actually is off street parking. Is that correct? Yes. There is off street parking on Jenkins Street. But this would be the first proposal that introduces front kind of garages on the street, to enter into parking along the street. I don't actually recall if there are others that have that parking situation on the street. I know there is a development across the street, but I just don't recall exactly where their parking is located. Okay. That's all that's all the questions I have. I'm interested to hear in terms of how many letters are on file. I'm Miss Bedouc. We have got a handful of three or four letters that are in opposition including the Andrew Square Civic Association. I'm just sort of working through these as we speak here, some local residents. It looks like there will be some people that are going to be on the the Stephanie would know they're on the hearing who might want to speak based upon the forms that are in here. I don't see any letters of support. Okay. Is there a consensus in the letters that have been filed? They're reasoning for the opposition. And Miss Bedouc. Do you want me to ask go in this two way in here? I think they could probably explain the community process. Sure. And then if you can also read on record the BPDA recommendation. Would you like me to read that first or let them go through it first? It's up to you, Mount chair. Okay. For your reference, BPDA recommends now without prejudice proposal is excessive address ground floor parking maneuverability and eliminate curb cut. With that, may I hear from ONS, the public process? I think that would be helpful. Certainly. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayors office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayors office looks deferred to the judgment of the board. With some back formation on the community background information on the community process. ONS hosted a butters meeting for 37 Jenkins Street on August 23, 2022. A handful of the butters attended. The applicant then went on to meet with the membership of the Andrew Square Civic Association, which voted to oppose this proposal, citing concerns about the height, concerns about what they felt was not enough parking excessive FAR and they also felt that there was not enough open space. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Is there anyone else here to speak in support or opposition of this project? Hi, I would like to speak on behalf of council president Flynn. Yes, please. Council president Flynn would like to go on record and support based on the community process and good faith compromises by the proponent. With the mayors, including front and year four decks, removed as well as additions of a roof plan with solar ready zones, trash compactor and heater walkway to help with snow removal and a security camera to the front of the building. Council president Flynn acknowledges outstanding concerns for neighbors and respectfully requests that proponent continue to engage the community on quality of life issues around the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else to speak and support or opposition of this project? Good evening, Madam Chair. John Piccotowski, Jenkins Street, University of West South Austin. I'd like to thank the proponent for their engagement with the city's community process. This time, after careful review from the ASEA Development Committee, it as it relates to Article 68, this proposed project does not have any special or peculiar circumstances or conditions related to the land building. There are no reasons of practical difficulty in demonstrable and substantial hardship. Granting the variance would be in harmony with the general purpose, would not be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the zoning code. It will be egregious to the neighborhood and otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I respond to the BPDA's recommendation? Can I finish public testimony first? Thank you. Is there anyone else to speak and support or opposition? Now raise your hands, Madam Chair. Okay, thank you. Mr. Spitz, if you want to briefly respond? Yes, so just one thing I just wanted to make it known again to the board when South Boston was actually rezoned on Article 68 for some apparent reason, a small portion of South Boston was carved out. This one is why they have the underlying zoning. So if in fact, this was governed by Article 68, these violations here except for the open space would be zoning compliant under Article 68. So again, thank you for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you. Are there any additional questions from members of the board? Yes, Madam Chair. I would just try to understand what's unique about this lot that requires to be built and proposed in such fashion here. And I don't really understand how the the parking works and how that design has sort of taken place to have such limited open space with building coverage such as I understand the comment that it's if it were under Article 68 that it would be largely compliant, but it's not. So that's not really what's in front of us here. So I'm just trying to get a better grasp of what's unique about this lot that's requiring this particular type of design. Yeah, great. So Shane Losi is actually on with us. He could probably get into the parking scheme a little bit better than most of us. So I can defer to him on that. But what makes this kind of unique is we're looking around where directly one house in or say one storefront in from a major thoroughfare on on O'Calling Avenue, considering all the lot of the development in here. If you're looking at this house from a Google map, it seems to be a little bit dwarfed in from all these larger size buildings. So I think that this development here would be more in line and in tack with what's being developed in this in this neighborhood in this pocket of right here. And Shane Losi, what's your company? Just to add to that, yeah, I think what Jeff was saying, Ryan was saying this is that last lot on the street directly across from us. There is the building on the corner of O'Calling and Jenkins. That's a much more dense than even our building. And it doesn't show in the street view, but if you zoom out to the overhead view that was building built a couple of years ago, I think it's 20 three Jenkins across the street from us. That's almost similar, along this exactly the similar as what we're doing. And the other aspect of this too is we're a lot we're bringing in some green space that we didn't have before as the whole lot was covered with either deck or building. Sorry on the parking. This is kind of a scheme we've done on tight laws before we've done a couple on the Alphan street. What it allows for is each car in a parking independently. Each car parked side by side in the back, but cars are able to back out. And without having tandem spots, it's so you can get without having the other car move. Do we have a BTDs comments and review on this particular project? Miss Beter-Oxel, we do not. We just have the BPDAs recommendation that deals with the the ground floor parking maneuverability and the curb cut. Are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I'm going to ask for a motion. Madam Chair, I like to put forward a motion to defer to a full board given that the project is larger than kind of a small renovation or a small change of user condition. I think it needs to have BTD comments on it and a full board. Do I have a second? I'll second that. Yes, I think that's appropriate because it seems like there's some design changes have been made here that are kind of taking away open space and adding parking in a way that don't really seem consistent. So I'd like to see that. I think BTD and BPDA need to be present as well to weigh in. Thank you. Miss Beter-Barraza? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. I don't know, do we normally, oh yeah, this recommendation. All right, thank you. I think you need to give a date correct, Tom. I don't know. I think you need to defer these cases to the next full board hearing. It could be January 31st. I can't guarantee that Bob DeBigo would be at that hearing, but hopefully he would be usually at the most of the hearings. So you'd have to use the offer as college. I recommend that the applicant uses this time to consult with BTD. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, BOA 1335230, the addresses 510 East 8th Street, South Boston. This is the general renovation of the entire historic home. I think what he reorganized in spaces in the addition of a third floor master suite, there are three violations. Article 68, section 29, roof structure restrictions because of modifying existing roof and increasing its height, and two section eight restrictions front yard and side yard. The front yard is minimum required is five, proposed is one and a half, and the side yard minimum required is three, and proposed are 0.5 on the right side and about one foot on the left. As the applicant here, can they provide their name and address for the record? Certainly. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. Attorney John Barry from the Largestes, John D. Barry at 1156 Dorchester Ave. The architect of record on this particular project is Chelsea Blanchard with a business address of 599 East Broadway unit 105 located in South Boston, 02127. We've been hired by the two owners of this house, the young couple that lives in South Boston and this single family. There's no proposed changing use, and I just want to highlight that there's no proposed change in the existing footprint of the home that they purchased. The rear addition that's being proposed is requesting to extend the addition that is already existing on the first floor up through the second and the third floor as well, or what we're going to turn the third floor for our proposal. There is a request to add dormers on the third floor, which would allow for a head height for the master's suite, which is really the crux of this proposal. John and Haley, that's the couple that lives there, is looking to use that third floor with that head height if the dormers are approved to create a master suite that's both a, it would add a third bedroom in a bathroom up there and the addition on the second floor would allow for some reorganization in a walk-in closet for each of the two existing bedrooms. In addressing the actual violations, both the front yard and the side yard insufficient violations were pre-existing knock informances. They are not worsened by the current proposal. The existing roof structure is being changed. The angle of the roof is going to be smaller with the dormers being added and the height is going to be increased from 29 feet to inches to 34 feet, two and three quarter inches. The original proposal did request a roof deck after a community outreach and meeting with the elected officials in the area that has been designed away. I bring that up because I know there was just a question as to why the proposal was previously deferred. The reason for the deferral was actually that when that decision was made to design away the roof plan, the examiner at ISD that was provided the plans within the time frame, had a concern with the survey that was originally provided. We were requested to we were asked or there was a determination by the examiner to that we should defer in order to have that fixed provided to the board and the stamp set that's before all of you is that. Thank you. I don't know if there's any questions or comments from the board and there was a button on August 9th, there was a meeting with the leadership of the Gay to Heaven Neighborhood Association on CyberNational. I see you will tell us about that later. Ms. Bedard-Brazad, do you have any questions on the plans? Yeah, questions during the ad equate. Thank you. Are you getting any questions? I don't have any questions. We have about, it looks like about eight or so letters in support and a number that look like they are from basically direct to butters. Thank you. With that, I'll open it up to public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer judgment to this board. Some back information on the community process, our office didn't did indeed host in a butters meeting on August 9th with a proponent answered all questions. Many butters were in attendance. They went on to send our office eight letters of support, which is what Mr. Secretary referenced. They also met with the local civic association as well. With that, we defer to the judgment this board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Councillor Flynn's office. So President Flynn, we'd like to go on record and support based on a good community process and good faith compromises with neighbors and the Gay to Heaven Neighborhood Association to remove the roof deck from their proposal. Here is respectfully request that the team proponent continue to work with a butters on any quality of live issues during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Any other testimony and supporter opposition? I have no raised hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. And let me see. BPDA recommendations approval with provides those plans be submitted for design review with attention to dormer scale and pitch. And we've already gone through no roof deck. So with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisels. One BPDA design review paying a special attention to the dormer pitch. And the second is that they should be no roof deck. Do I have a second? Yes. Sorry, yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, members of the board. Okay, we have BLA case 1338514 address six Thwings Street in Roxbury. This is a proposed driveway curb cut in off street parking for two cars. There are three violations, Article 10, Section 1, limitation of area for accessory uses. Two Article 50 violations in Section 43. The location of the off street parking is not permitted in the front yard and it's designed in maneuverability. And a separate note that it does not provide vehicle impact protection for a budding property at 4th Wings Street. Would the applicant please read their name and address into the record? Yes, hi. My name is Rufus Fall. I'm the owner owner owner. I'm at 6th Thwings Street in Roxbury. This is for we are proposing a curb cut for off street parking which requires a variance. The last time I was before the board there was some concern about the overall property extent and and what I added to what I originally submitted was a plan that will show the overall extent of the property and also show that there is adequate information or hopefully it will clarify some of the concerns of the board that the driveway proposal is adequate to what we're looking to do is to get the two vehicles in there. Thank you. Yes, we're still on. Farrakall, we were concerned about the width and clearance. Yes, that's right. So I provided this drawing that we're looking at is a it shows that the opening of eight plus there was some concern about whether or not the parking in front of the at the front of the house and you could see there in the see not so much this plan there's a there's another plan. Let's see if you could scroll. I think we passed it. It may be up a bit more. Let's start it. I'm sorry. Let's see. There are two photos. This is more recent. It shows an overall plan view also with two photographs. If you may perhaps scroll down. Continue to scroll. Continue, please. There the plan is not I submitted a plan. It should have been uploaded. I don't know why it's not. I can't explain why it had been submitted but there I submitted a plan similar to the one we're looking at which shows both spaces for the the two cars and hopefully that gives you some clarification of the extent of what's not shown what's missing. The drawing I actually sent from the front swing street side to the back of the property. It's the overall dimension is 71.19 feet and the dimension along the house is 30 feet. The front of the house from the corner of the house to the street is over 11 is 11.25 feet from the corner of the house. I can't explain why your drawing did not include my drawing was not uploaded but this is one of the drawings but there is an additional I'd like to think that this perhaps will be enough but if you have any questions I can answer but hopefully this is it gives you some sense of the length of the property. I just have a couple of questions. Can you clarify is the on street parking just on this side of the street or is there on street parking on the opposite side of the street too. Parking is on one side of the street which is the side you're looking at. Okay and so how many spaces on street will be removed from the curb cut? Well if two cars we would take two cars off the street and you must understand the Roxbury area is we were getting it's a very crowded area and two vehicles off the street would be but you also have. I think you misunderstood David's question. I think it's one car that would be eliminated from public parking and I think the applicant was suggesting that he would be removing to potential public parking spaces that he probably currently uses. Is that correct? Yeah. Yeah, concerned at the the loss of on street parking for the curb cut and members of the board I'd also like to point out that B2D did weigh in regarding the location of the spaces still being in the front yard and that being problematic. I don't understand you're saying that there's not enough room. What evidence do you have that it's not enough room? The car. The car. I believe Mr. Aikin's comment from B2D was about the front yard parking. Right. There wouldn't be any front yard parking. I don't understand where you see that isn't it possible? Well just for a clarification where you have noted A where it says where's red right in front of us. The eight by 20 space you would have a vehicle there and zoning does not allow front yard parking. Well, I'm just trying to clarify. I'm not making an opinion. I'm just trying to clarify. What's happening right now is I don't see the drawing and what I have in front of me is a better explanation and I don't understand why it wasn't submitted. I'm just going to put it in front of the camera which should have been in front of you. I'm just saying it's not what I sent in. But first of all I'm hoping you could at least look at this as at least one vehicle would provide. I mean one vehicle at a minimum provide parking and the thing is I've lived in on the street. I've lived in Roxford for over 26 years and it's not getting any better. I've been applying for a variance to provide at least an a minimum of one spot. And you know the thing is it's just that the the spot was applied for and approved previously. You know, just the home owner just trying to come home every day and provide a safe parking spot for myself. And it's the problem. I'm just not understanding the issue. Thank you. Are there are there additional questions from you? I do have I do have some questions. So were you able to get a support from your neighbor at four Twin and Street? My verbally my neighbor had my neighbors have not changed since the last time it was approved. And if you're looking for support in writing, I mean I verbally, I just ask you. And the thing I would say by the if you've got any any you know letters that says that I don't. I just don't see that as an issue. I've not had an issue with any of my neighbors and they have aware of what I've been trying to do. I've posted the posters up to let everyone know that this is what I'm proposing. Thank you, Mr. Fulton. She just asked a direct question about your neighbor at fourth wing street. There's no issue. Okay. And David, do we have an email or a letter from four? Oh no, we have a letter from PTT and then we have a letter from someone who lives one street over from Highland Street. One letter but that was on file and from someone on Foldest Street from November in support. That's all we have. Great. Thank you. And then my other question is the photo montages that we're seeing in front of us. Is this the actual vehicle on the property or did you just kind of cut and paste? Excuse me? The photos that we're seeing of the car in along the aisle are those or in the aisle like what I'm seeing in front of me. Is that your actual car or did you photo montage it in the space to show it's an actual photograph of your car? Of my car. Thank you. Right. So that means that just to show us that there's room, you went over the curb and you took photos for us just to see. Yes, I want you to understand that there is room. Okay. Perhaps not meeting, you know, what we're looking for but that's the reason I'm applying for the variance. Right. I just wanted to see how accurate. So that's great. You answered my question. I wanted to make sure that the photo was your actual car. Thank you. Yes, I would not assume any other information. Of course. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Yes, good evening, Madame Chair, members of the board. Kecis and Jennifer, the mayor's office and neighborhood services. So background of the community process is there was previously and a virus meeting hosted in which the applicant received support from a butters. This was prior to refiling because of the same proposal. I did not hold some additional butters meeting but my understanding is the applicant did receive support from a butters and signatures as well. And at this time we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any additional testimony? I have no race. Are there any other questions from the board? I have one more question. I'm sorry. Let's assume in the future that you're a butter puts up offense on a property line. Let's just say they don't want to see the car anymore. Do you have sufficient room to open your car door? And the reason I'm saying this is just because BTT does have standards for minimum aisle which should be at 10 feet. And I just want to confirm that you would have room to open your door if there was to be a fence put up on your on your butter property. I would assume so I don't. I have a fence up now. So I'm not sure it's a hypothetical question until that happens. I couldn't tell you that but I would say yes. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Mr. Aiken any additional questions? No, I don't have any additional questions. Thank you. Okay. With that you read the BTT. I did not. I'm sorry. BPD recommends denial for the reasons of front yard parking and does not meet BTT standards. With that may I have a motion from the board? I would like to put forward a motion of approval with a provide with a provisal that it would be only for one car to eliminate the front yard parking. Do I have a second? No. Tom what is the process? I'll move. We need. I don't know if we'll be able to reach the board. The board can't reach agreement on a motion we would defer to the full board. I think I'd make a motion to defer to the to the full board so that the rest of them can hear. I second that. All right. Ms. Betta-Barraza. Yes. Sorry first. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Yes. I think that given the recommendations from BTT and BPD and the removal of on street parking to add dis parking in the problem with the front yard setback piece there. Yes. Motion to defer please. Your second. Yes. Okay. All right. So Ms. Betta-Barraza. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair. Yes. Motion carries. Do you have a new date for Mr. Falk? It would be the January 31st at 11.30 a.m. Yes. Tom, do we need to be clear to the applicant in regards to why we're deferring to full board in terms of the requirements for a three-member board if there's that you can change it. Yes. Thank you, sir. For the record just so the applicant because this will be the third third time coming in front and I think they need to understand kind of the rules of engagement let's say with our board. Yes. Ms. Betta-Barraza. So Mr. Falk basically the board is you know they can't come to an agreement in the subcommittee here so like there's some people in support in some in opposition so they want the board the full board to be able to consider your proposal at the next year and we can be on the 31st. I don't know if you have everyone is on the board a chance to weigh in on your proposal. So basically in the sub-tomps of basically in the sub-committee you need three board members to unanimously vote in a particular way. Yes. Yes. Oh you know. Okay. I just wanted for it to be for the record so everyone understands our process. Thank you Ms. Betta-Barraza and Mr. Gurum. Okay one more case final case. All right thank you this is B.O.A. 1368532 the address is 60 Chesterfield Street in Hyde Park. This is a renovation and an addition. There are five Article 69 Section 9 violations for area ratio excessive building height number of stories excessive front yard insufficient side yard and sufficient rear yard and sufficient with the applicant please provide their name and address and description of the request. Good evening madam chair members of the board my name is Hylene Rosa from Rosa Designing Construction. Our address is 286 Lohel Eiffel Note and the residential designer representing the owner's tina and Antonio Lugo. 60 Chesterfield is their primary residence and due to the size of their family their intention is to propose an extension of living space of their single family home by demolition and existing 12 by 10 first floor and build a approximately 20 by 13 addition at the rear of the house from the basement to the second floor also the attic area by they want to stand the living space in the existing attic area by adding two dormers one on each side of the existing a frame roof so as mentioned there were five violations cited for floor area ratio what's allowed in the area it's 4.5 and we are proposing point six as far as building height and stories what's allowed in the area it's 2.5 and due to the extension of living space in the attic we're proposing three front yard it's the requirement 25 the existing is 15 and we keep it at 15 it's just by the fact that we're adding a second floor balcony per se or deck right above the existing one side yard the requirement is 10 feet the existing is three foot seven on the left side that's the worst case scenario and our we're proposing three foot seven inches because we are continuing with the current setback at the addition at the rear and then as far as rear side rear yard insufficient it's because what's allowed there it's 40 feet the existing is 30 we are proposing 20 21 feet on the first floor addition which is the basement access and 27 feet at the set at the two-story addition I'm open for any questions thank you just to confirm this is a remaining on one family correct thank you miss better barons i have you reviewed reviewed the plans madam chair i have no questions okay mr. achin do you have any questions i guess my question should just be what why did this why was this deferred how did it come back what what's changed yeah we basically there were some misunderstandings with the previous plans submitted the plans submitted for once for review only but what changed was the basement area that was it was not showing as finished and extended and that was pretty much it the basement area that floor other than that was pretty much thank you any additional questions okay with that may i have a public testimony good evening madam chair members of the board this is Danielle Fonteca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services i hope tonight a butter is meeting for this proposal on September 14th of 2022 the applicants also have reached out to the read bill neighborhood watch community group they are currently inactive for this season that community group so they did not receive a response from the community group but we have not received any letters of opposition or support for this proposal and at this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board thank you thank you is there any additional testimony Francis all right hearing none any other questions from the board before motion madam chair i apologize i do have one Melissa okay thank you may i hear from Melissa Melissa you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please sure my name is Melissa Luna i'm at 17 Danny Road we are a butters to the backyard of the proposed project just wanting to to note that not necessarily an opposition but we haven't had one conversation with our neighbor about the build and similarly with other residents on Danny Road so i do think there's some concerns and questions about this project but haven't had a conversation with our neighbor about the expansion and in particular the concern for us is around the extension into the backyard and what the impact it would have on our property do you have any response before we make a motion is the proponent have a response oh i'm sorry first and i said we went through the a butters meeting asking you can second-stated but we're open for you know if you have any comments or questions we can gladly share with you and go through through this together appreciate that okay so there's no representation from that street i mean they have chair can i ask a can i ask a question um i just i guess in terms of the rear the rear changes there you have 30 foot existing you're going to 21 proposed on the first floor 27 on that i guess second and third is that it how did you come to the conclusion that's sort of the minimum needed for what for what you're requesting i'm sorry what was your question again um do you have a allowable is 40 feet in the rear you have 30 feet existing you took us through a 20 foot to 27 foot proposed uh variation in the setback there from the plans and just wondering how you concluded that that sort of the minimum needed for for the project oh well basically i do to the addition of the stun and the pre-existing addition that were the modus shins um i'm sorry i don't think i'm trying to understand your question and i hope i answered he's he's talking about how you came i think how you came to the the footage the of the setback you know based on the existing the existing conditions how did you arrive at that number you know that versus a smaller number etc oh well based on the plot plan provided uh as you can see it specifies that the the new setbacks being proposed i think catch all of that he's still unclear with your response i just didn't hear the response didn't come through clear sorry oh okay well i there they're supposed to be a plot plan as part of the uh the package certified plot plan which shows the proposed uh setback but you're not violating the rear setback it's still at 15 the the rear it's 40 what's allowed there the requirement and we're proposing 20 21 and 27 i just i think your numbers are off in this cover page it doesn't say 21 27 it says existing rear yard depth 15 and then proposed 15 so i think the numbers are just synchronized yeah yeah it's correct but i think i think just to help you um miss roza to answer do it's a question if you just look at the family room it looks like they used um couches as a way to proportion to rear addition is that fair to say or i'm i'm just helping miss roza out um as an architect but i think there's is enough setback from the rear that it shouldn't cost too much issues with your rear of butters but i do encourage you to continue with conversations with all your butters and inform them of the process yeah right okay any other questions from the board can you please read the bpda recommendation as well on the record i know you're going to ask that and i don't i don't have one i don't know if uh if uh mr achin does no miss bette roza we do not have a we do not have one yeah sorry there there was none i know with that i'm going to entertain emotion okay i like to put forward a motion of approval with bpda design review okay is there a second yes okay miss bette roza yes mr achin yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck and thank you all all right congratulations all right we've survived thank you