 Nobody has these figures on the incident sexual assault. Hi, we're going to be starting. If you're in the attendee section right now, I'm going to take a panelist please do let me know. Alan, I'm not sure if you're on two devices, but if you are that maybe where the echo is coming from. I'm going to take a panelist. Can you please raise your hand if you're in the attendee section right now and you need to be elevated to a panelist. Jessica, are we all set? Yes. Okay, Madam Chair, we're ready. As my good evening, the city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for October 26, 20, 23 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being reported. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be able, you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Analysts are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as there as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge needs to address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called upon or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Ms. Betapraza. Good evening, Madam Chair. Present. Good evening. All right. I will turn it over to you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Okay, first we have case B.O.A. One five one three seven. Just a stick so do we have any referrals that we have? I mean, mine didn't mean that. I need to ask if we have any request for withdrawals or deferrals from this evening. Hi, Bob. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. You can unmute yourself. Thank you, folks. Sorry. Okay. My case is for 46 Limwood Street and we're asking for deferral at this time. So that would be for case B.O.A. One five one seven seven nine seven. Okay. So we have a report on the case with the address of 46 Limwood Street. Correct. Please explain to the board. It's okay. We are making some fine tuned adjustments to our presentation. And I have not had enough time to get those changes in for your review in a time manner. I don't present here. I'm going to have a report on the case. If I could have a four week extension, that would be I think adequate. I was happier. For November. November 9th would be the next subcommittee date. And I want to confirm Madam Chair. This is a presentation or they're editing the plans. Probably both. Because that's a different process, Madam Chair. Okay. What do we need to do that Samantha? We would need an uptime to have the plans examiner review the updated plans. Have those stamped by that plans examiner. And then sent to the board. Staff do you mind giving us a timeline on how long someone typically needs when they change their plans? Well, Madam Chair, I could just say we can defer this to December 7th. So that way if he changes presentation plans, he can. And then if needed, it could be deferred ultimately to the last hearing date of December 12th. If needed. That might get in that. At a time. Okay. Madam motion. Mo. That by her correct. We move into the floor until November 7th. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. December. Yeah. This is better. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion. Paris. See you then. Okay. Thank you. Any further request for which all will be for. Hearing none. Then we'll go. We'll go to case.ients. You. Could you raise your hand if you're the applicant for this case. someGary. Okay. Now we come back to them then. Yes, Madam Chair, we can do a second call up this. Yep, keep going. Okay. Next we have case B08149, 6428, with the address of 10 Lyndon Street. Is the applicant the end or their representative president to apply into the board? Yes, yes, yes, we are Madam Chair members of the board. My name is attorney, France, Adams, law office and so far, it's the last 350 West Broadway. I represent Devon Joel McCarthy, they lived in that property since 2002. Also on tonight is the project architect and that back and she'll be able to review the plans. I just a quick background, Madam Chair, this project we had a community process. We had two meetings. We met with the Deutsche Strait Civic Association and we also have the mayor's office about a meeting. As of this time, we're not aware of anyone in opposition to the proposal. It's a simple renovation of an existing single family into a two family home. The applicants plan on moving their depths, elderly mother into the first floor apartment, we converted into a by-level first floor apartment. There'll be an addition in the rear at street level. This area is currently used as a deck. There'll be a small deck on the back of that added on. They'll be creating a two bed remuted on the first floor and ground level with a bedroom on each level as well as a living room in a bedroom. The second floor is it stands. There's no additions to it. They're just dormering or squaring off the roof line. It'll be a two bed with an addition of an additional bedroom on the attic level. That's why they're dormering the top floor. There's five variances that we are seeking. One is roof structure restriction. The second is Article 68 Section 8. It's sufficient water area. The third is Article 68 Section 8 and sufficient side yard. Fourth is Article 68, insufficient rear yard. In the last is Article 68 Section 33, off street parking or insufficient off street parking. At this point, I would let them. And that back the project architect will over the plans and answer any questions the board may have. Good evening, Madame Chair and members of the board. She can please move to sheet 8 2.0. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Can you zoom out a bit? Thank you. Okay. So I'll just take you through the project. We are dividing the existing building to two units. So we are the street level and the lower level basement level will become the lower unit. The upper floors with additional dormers will create a three level of the second unit per unit. So to get today the unit on the street level, we have a side existing entry and then if that will be your level, if you scroll down a bit. On the sheet. Yeah. And not too much. Just go back, please. Okay, so if you look on the left side lower floor, that is the street level. We have an existing entry and then on the side of the house, you're going to get to that unit. And then we're creating a new stairwell interior stairwell that leads to the basement level on that level will have one bedroom and a living space. And then if we scroll up, sorry, on the sheet, same sheet, then this is the basement level. We have another bedroom, another bathroom, and we have a common exit and entry to the common utility area. Now, sorry, if you scroll down a little bit lower and then we'll see the these first floor. So you're coming from the street, you're going up, please stay there. So if you're coming on the street and then you're going to the first floor, that's the second unit. You can become to a living space, new kitchen and rear deck. And then please the next sheet, eight to point one. Thank you. So on the existing second floor, we just creating a new stairwell to take you to the attic level, existing two bedrooms, bedroom, and then no changes there on the third floor. We are doing new dormers that will give us some head height and over there we're just going to do master suite. If we go to the last sheet, we'll just explain in general the entire additions. Let's go up. I guess it's not the last sheet. Yes, that one. So we're just going to do a new stairwell to make sure that we're in a very interesting condition demo and propose. So if you look at the front view, there's no changes to the existing house. We are doing the upper dormers on the third floor. And then it's pretty much an alignment of what's happening on the street. A lot of residents have created dormers on the upper floor, some have man's art style. And then we're going to do some of the dormers, shed dormers on the back. We have a new addition that's if you score a little bit down. You'll see that on the rear we have two story addition that will give you for the first for the lower unit. Based living spaces in the room. And those are the changes we're requesting. Questions from the board. I don't have any questions. I think BPD provided a recommendation for the project. They did for all the projects. Are you asking you to read them all or you can read them. Okay. Well, the recommendation is approval. Any other questions from the board? No, yeah, no questions. Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This sound the mayor's also deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation, we hosted a butterspeeding on August 24th. There were a number of neighbors that were on to express support for the proposal. They were looking forward to the family staying in the neighborhood. We did separately get an email with some concerns raised regarding connection to the private sewer line in the rear. And so we went through a couple of different kinds of issues on the other side. We also received a lot of financial water runoff as well as concerns about the direction that the windows might be facing on the dormant meeting to loss of privacy. The applicant also mentioned to they went on to meet with the local civic association as well. We received six letters in support from butters and four additional letters from the broader south boss in neighborhood. We also received one letter in opposition. I don't have an open. I believe that's from. In a butter as well with that. We'll leave it to the board. And I'm sure here no one else I have no additional raised hands. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. I have a motion. Madam chair, I'm going to go forward with the recommendation the BPD a motion of approval. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better brazo? Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have case B08. One two five. Three six eight five. The address of eight. Oh nine to eight eleven Harrison Avenue. Is the applicant and what they're representing the president to explain to the board. I'm going to go ahead and ask the board to explain to the board. I'm going to go ahead and ask the board to explain to the board. All right. If you're on can you raise your hand or. On the message in the chat. You're the account. All right. Yep. Go ahead. We cannot hear you. Maybe coming in and out. I. Excuse me. Can't quite hear you if you could speak up. That would be helpful. I'm going to ask the board. Yes. Now I can hear clearly. Yes. I'm Joe. I'm the owner of the. The. The. Which is the restaurant located at eight on nine eighty eleven. Harrison. So. And finally last last year. We did all like I did all the paperwork for the. Board of appeal and everything I did the main is with that. But I've had only. I've had only. I've had only. I've had only. I've had only. I've had only. I've had only. The guide. So. What I was explaining is that. The person who signed. I forgot the name is. Pep and some. The last name of the guy I think it was pep and. And we can't say you're requesting sir. What is it? What really for you? Removing. Removing the. For a take out business. Fore�ing. Is this. So the provider is just. dupe. Quisthen just to remove the proposal. Take. I'm signed the letter and send it over. And that's what I've been waiting for. So your. I'm sorry. But you're. I remove the proviso and then do takeouts. I think the proviso as previous provisos have been there. They're usually for this applicant only, which means if he's a new applicant, he needs to apply for a new one. Thank you. Yes, so. Yeah. And there's no additional work or anything on the space correct? No, no, no, no. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Public testimony, please. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and even with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor's office looks to defer to this board. I wonder whether or not there are any concerns from the community and we know that neighbors are excited to have active storefronts on this this stretch of the neighborhood. So we believe there's mostly support from the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have no raise hands. May I have a motion? I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Barraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next, we have a case of the away. The case of the address is the one five two five eight zero four with the address being 54 John L.A. Square. Is the applicant and or their represent the president's which point. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I'm representing the petitioner one united bank. I'm also here is Matt Hyatt, who is the project architect. Matt can provide information on any questions that members may have about the plans. And Kerry Williams, who was the president and chief operating officer of one united bank. Also with us is Greg Dunnevin, who is the permitting consultant for the project. This is an application to change the legal occupancy of the building at 54 John L.A. Square in Roxbury. The headquarters bank of one united. This requires a conditional use permit under article 50. The relevant zoning sub district is an MFR LS sub district under article 50. The Roxbury neighborhood zoning article. Two lots are being combined producing a total lot size of 8,510 square feet. The site is located at the confluence of Roxbury Street and center street in John L.A. Square. There would be a vertical addition to the existing one story building, which presents more like a two story building on the Roxbury Street side of the site going to a grade change. There is an existing garage door and garage parking access from the Roxbury Street side of the site as can be seen on the south elevation sheet of the plans, which is sheet A200. There is also surface parking access via center street, which is depicted in the rendering on sheet A900 of the plans. As can be seen on the last page of the plans, the site landscaping plan, they would be relocated curb cut on the center street side of the site with new site landscaping, as well as the introduction of new street trees on the public way. I additionally would point out for the board that the project has already been favorably reviewed by BBDA design staff, and that Scott Slarsky at the BBDA is indicated the BBDA design review approval would be immediately forthcoming upon ZBA approval. The building is dimensionally code compliant. None of the work requires zoning relief, but as I said, a conditional use permit is required for the proposed bank use. As to the article six conditions required for the granting of the conditional use permit, I can state for the record that the specific site is in fact an appropriate location for a bank that the use of the property as a bank will not adversely affect the neighborhood that there will be no hazards posed to vehicles or pedestrians from the use nor will it create any nuisance. And that as an established and experienced banking services provider, one United will provide adequate and appropriate facilities for the proper operation of the use. A pause will take any questions or comments at the board may have. Thank you question, Mr. Rancy. I don't know if you have seen comments from the city's Disabilities Commission. They asked about an accessible interest that they didn't see one to the proposed basement retail retail space and just you know talked about access in general, as well as Van, access accessible parking space. I saw that and I saw that they do have an elevator. Okay, and that provides access. I think if I think if you can you can speak about the accessibility to that tenant space from the front and visibility to to let people know where is that vertical access. Certainly so the area indicated on the plans. I think it's indicated now a storage was originally indicated as a future retail use. That is actually outside the scope because no retail use has been identified. In other words, a retail use could go in there zoning compliance. It's not a long as it is an allowed use under Article 50, but it's actually not part of these plans. It would require a new application and that would of course require code compliance in terms of accessibility and building code. The bank use is actually the only use so we had had this conversation with ISD and removed the again, I'm trying to see the diversion on the plans, but there is no future. The future retail use included within the scope. The tenant space, I think which is better bariser is referring to in the front. I think that that's access on grade from the square, which is the lower plan showing now. And I think that the additional space on the second floor is bank space. But in what I'm seeing on planned a 101 there seems to be two risers right at the entrance to that tenant space. Then I would suggest that no building code relief is being sought and assume none will be granted. The space would obviously have to be fully compliant with accessibility requirements. So if you know we would be willing to accept a provider of no relief granted on that. I'm sorry, I'll contact that. Matt, I don't know if you want to speak additionally to that, but I think where we're going with this is that it will be all all entrances and all access points will of course be compliant. That's correct. Yeah, the bank is a new retail branch that will have an accessible entrance from the guest parking area. The tenant space, the future tenant space at the front of the building has an existing non accessible entrance at the intersection of generally it's where that it's going to be maintained, but that will not be the primary entrance for adding a new accessible entrance to the side of that space from this under street sidewalk. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office like to defer to the judgment this board. Our office hosted a butter's meeting in the applicant went on to meet with the John Elliott Square neighborhood association, which offered their support for this proposal. For the butter's meeting of butter's expressed them of variety of opinions with some being in support of the addition of this new business to the area. There's expressing some concerns around traffic and parking with that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and I have no additional raise chance. Okay, with that may I have a motion. Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso. That there'll be no building co-relief granted for accessibility. I'll take a motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case. No. The number 6. 6.4. 6.4. 3.7. The address of four O'Donnell Terrace. Is the applicant and or the representative present to explain to the boards. Hello, yes. Yes, please identify yourself. Sure. Sorry. I just stepped out or three month old is crying right now. So I'm. My husband is tending to him. So sorry about that for not being able to. My name is Daria Barr, I live at 4 O'Donnell Terrace, my husband Ethan, and we're hoping to extend an existing room over our existing front porch just about 70 square feet to make a future bedroom for our son. It does follow the pattern of almost all the other houses on our street. It would not be expanding the footprint at all of the house. It is just to add or expand a room on top of an existing porch, as we said. There are some examples of many of the houses on the street that have the same exact expansion and it would be pretty minor in scale. So it is. Sorry, we just we just missed the last porch and we just miss some bedroom that would just be but it out just to get a little bit more square footage. Okay, any questions from the board. Sorry, I'll just. Yes, ma'am. Sorry, are you still speaking Daria? No, I had paused because I didn't know if you. Okay, yes, I'm asking if there are any questions from the board. No questions. Pretty sure. All right, hearing none. May I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, mayor's office like deferred to the judgment of this board. I put the information on the community process. Oh, and it's hosting the butters meaning on August 28th, where no butters were an opposition to the proposal. The applicant them went on to meet with the local civic association which offered their support. And there should be a letter on file with that civic association indicating they're in support with that will defer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, this is a modest addition. I would like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Are we able to drop from the call now for the fourth time? Yes, ma'am. You're good. Thank you. Take care of your son. Thanks. Next, we have case of BOA 1444 9528. We have the address of 253. I'm just an admin. It's the applicant that will represent the president which one? Can you raise your heart? Oh, go ahead. Yes, I'm here. My name is Carmen Cabreja. Yes, ma'am. Please proceed with your request. I'm going to put Nelson so he can explain better. Okay. Okay. Hi. I'm Nelson. We have a trying to get a permit to do to to the bathroom. Brace the roof and make two bedroom and bathroom. And even deny because they say I don't have enough space in the right side of the yard. And the reason that we don't have right side of the space in the yard is because of the fence. They we put that fence because we had a daycare and they asked for that. So now the fence is always so you know me. The fence could be removed. I think we're going to get a little confused. I think we're I thought we were hearing a project regarding outdoor seating. 253 Huntington Avenue is the next case. This bed browser. That's the case we're listening to my apologies. I'm so sorry. Please go over one. Please proceed. I'm sorry. Sorry. Would the applicant please proceed? Yes. Like I said, we had that that fence is the one who caused that we don't have a next space in the right side of the house. But like I was saying, we put that fence without knowing because the family people the house was flooded back. So we were a front for safety because we used to have a daycare before. But we no longer have a daycare. So we could work on the fence to arise by to guide me. Excellent questions from the board. So if we understand you, you, you put a fence in when you have because you're required to for the daycare. You no longer have a daycare. So basically you don't need the fence anymore. No, not really. Okay. Then maybe if you would mind saying that again, that's what. Yes. So what is the issue now? We have been denied. Because I say side jar in suffocating violation discretion. Right. That which is why you're here seeking a variance. Right. Correct. So. So there. So just to clarify Mr. Stemberton, they're looking for a second floor addition. So it sounds to me is your side jar in sufficient and existing condition? Yes, I did. Okay. So you're not you're not adding to it. It's already an existing condition. So we're not adding to the side. We just want to add to the rule. Any other questions from from the board? Sorry, ma'am chair. This is obvious. Through the chair, just wondering if to confirm the eye could see if it's remaining the same or they adding the eye to see or changing it with the addition. In terms of it being a single family. Yes. Okay. Can the applicant confirm that with the addition this remains a single family? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Great. So absence of any other questions will take public testimony. Yes. Madam chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is off seems to defer to the judgment of this board. We have the applicant notify neighbors with flyers. We do not receive any letters in support or an opposition and we're unaware of any concern this time without defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Oh, sorry. Yeah, sorry. I have no other raised hands. Yeah. I mean, the. Basically, the agenda says two bedrooms in one bath, but the. I mean, the. I mean, the. I don't know. I'm not drawing that I'm seeing right now in front of me has three bedrooms and one bath. Can you just clarify it's three bedrooms and not two bedrooms. That's what we have in the agenda. No, it's two bedroom in one bathroom. It's two bedrooms and one bathroom. Yes. And it's just three bedrooms. And it's just three bedrooms. And it's just has three bedrooms drawn. That might be run. It's supposed to be. It's supposed to be two bedrooms. Yeah. And a bathroom. Let's see. Yeah. So I think it's drawn incorrectly. So you just want to make sure that you have some really good architecture drawings to build from. And it's a common. Okay. Thanks for the clarification. Okay. So let's have a motion that's clear on what they're proposing. Is there a motion? I like to put forward a motion of approval. With a. Provisal that you submit. A updated second floor plan to reflect your scope. Do you want to state the scope as to bedrooms or. And do you have a. That would be good if you read. And there would be food for bedroom and one bathroom. Thank you. Check out there. Yeah. It's just. It's just. His better, biraz. Yes. chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Good. I can leave now, right? Yes. Member Veraza. Yes. Sorry, this is Sam with the legal team. So just confirming it seemed like the applicant mentioned that it was supposed to be three bedrooms. The provides. They corrected the drawings have it drawn the drawings as I'm seeing them have three bedrooms. And so just for the record for our record, I just wanted to reflect that. So that's what's in the proviso to submit. Commitment drawings accurately indicates the scope. Perfect. Thank you. As to the. As you mentioned, yeah. Next we have case B O A. One four six seven one five two. With the address being seven 13 to 715 center street. Is the applicant and or their representative. Explain to the board. Yes, can you hear me? Okay. Yes, sir. My name is David Doyle. Thank you, Madam Chair and board members for allowing me to. Represent this project. I am co-owner of Casa Verde for the past three years. We regretted a temporary outdoor dining permit from the city of Boston. On the space indicated in the plan. Our request is zoning relief. Basically the situation as I understand it, the restaurant is located. In the parcel that is seven oh seven through seven 11. Our actual business address is seven 11 center street. The adjoining parcel which has common ownership. Is seven 13 715. So our request for relief is to. And be allowed to use the the space on the adjoining parcel. Which again is under common ownership for a permanent outdoor patio, which would be used as a seasonal patio. So we're trying to change our certificate certificate of occupancy. To include outdoor dining. And you said the the common area was under common ownership. So just to clear to confirm that that that piece you're you've already. And. And. That we can address. And their. Yes, we have a letter of support from the landlord, who actually proposed the idea of a patio at the start of the pandemic. You know, for the, for the benefit of the restaurant and its strong support from our community. Strong support from the neighborhood hearings. That we went through earlier this year. route to get to the patio? Yes, there actually is a cutout in the ramp right near our rear entrance. But the there is also, sorry, if you could, okay, there we go, I can see it now, sorry. So if you're coming, if a guest is coming from inside the restaurant, there is, there is a cutout in the ramp, I'm sorry, in the sidewalk, just to the rear of our entrance, which leads to a right of way so that there's not an actual travel corridor right there. We can also, you know, we could also add a ramp from the edge of the sidewalk, but in our experience, most guests are arriving from the back of the restaurant and there is an accessible route right past the Jersey barriers into the patio. And that also allows an accessible route into the rear of the entrance via that that curb cut, which is shown on the plan. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Questions? Okay, hearing none, may we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office, I'd defer to the judgment of this board. We've had some personnel changes, so I don't have all the information in the community process, but our office is unaware of any concerns right now. We understand that the applicant went to me with the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council and received their support. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Michael, Michael, are you looking to give testimony here? Yes. Go ahead. Can you state your name and address? And briefly tell us if you enter the Porter Opposition? Yes, I'm Michael Ricekin. I live at 425 South Huntington Avenue and Jamaica Plain. I'm a member of the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council and Chair of the Public Service Committee. We had a neighborhood hearing on this issue on June 6th of this year. It was flired as the applicant to fly a two-block area, a two-block area in all directions. We urge you to pass this application for variants. This manager, Cassabariday, David Doyle, is an exemplary manager on the street. And this rear patio is important for a sustainable restaurant business at this time. The applicant also came to the Jamaica Plain Center South Main Screeze and received support and went to the Jamaica Plain Business and Professional Association and received support. Personally, I got 46 different providers of support all in favor that were sent to me. So I urge you to pass this application in variants or change of occupancy. With the proviso that this change goes to the tenant, Cassabariday, only. Thank you. Thank you. No raise hands at the moment. No additional raise hands. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion, a motion of approval with a proviso that the applicant provides an accessible route from the entry to the back rear patio space. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Bedbaraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have a rediscussion. And that would be case BOA 146-2924-194-194. With the address of 25 Dura Street, is the applicant there? No other representative? I think it's fine. Yes. Thank you very much. Cameron Merrill with a business address of 100 state street, as well as the property owner, Kurt Hackinson, is on this call as well. So jump right into it. So we come to you seeking relief for what has been identified as four parking spaces on the apron of Burst Street, which in Boston is referred to as a front yard, even though technically speaking, or I suppose practically speaking, this is the side yard of this property. That apron for the driveway has been there since this home was reconstructed in 2003 with about 55 feet of width. The applicant is not looking to create a driveway or do any work at all on his own property. It's actually somewhat of a puzzling reason why we are even before this board. He originally went to ISD only seeking to extend or to modify the curb cut so that he could pull directly into his garage where he has an e-electric charger, as well as the other owner occupant who has an electric charger and her garage. ISD made the applicant redraw the plans, showing them as if there were four parking spaces in that driveway. Historically since 2003, there may be the occasional use of the driveway as somewhere that parks. However, these two occupants park in their garages. They do not park on the apron of this driveway. That being said, the modifications to the curb will allow them to better pull into their garages and there's a photograph shown in the existing condition which might help better clarify that. That being said, even if you do modify the curb, there will be no loss of on-street parking. We have seven letters of support from all impacted butters. We had support of the JP neighborhood council and this is just about an owner occupant wanting to be able to pull into his garage without having to hop the curb. As a mitigation to a concern raised by the Boston Transportation Department, the applicant has indicated that he is willing to only modify the left curb as you see it here and reduce the parking spaces as directed to be drawn to only the areas in front of the garages. And I think that the concern was raised by BPD because if someone's backing out of one of those parking spaces, they were concerned about the fact that it's about two and a half or three feet shorter than Boston requires. That being said, they're allowed to pull into their garages in back out of their driveway so there's no change in condition with that circumstance. So effectively, while this was, they were requested to have drawn in four parking spaces there, what they're really asking for is just the use of the alley in front of their garages and a change of the curbs that he doesn't have to hop that curb to pull straight into his garage. And Kurt is on and he can tell you he's a life, or not lifelong, but 2003 JP resident, there's a lot of support for him on this street and it's unfortunate that he has to seek relief for it but the way that he was directed before my involvement was to draw those spots on here. So can you clarify what the what what is the current width of your curb cut and are you looking to expand it or shift it? So the the current width and I have this the current width is about 25 and they want to go to about I think it's a little over third oh yeah there it is. This 20 feet you're existing 20 feet you existing and you want to enlarge it by almost 18 feet. So I think that that might be one of three that's 38 almost 38 feet of of curb remote of not having a curb. Right so I think it might be a little less because the plans there was a subsequent plan set filed that showed the measurement to the inside of the rounded curb but either way yes that's effectively what's happening and no on street parking will be removed and like I said he is willing to forego the right side of the curb so it's only the left side of the curb that is directly in front of his garage which is on the left side of that driveway. But like I said he's doing no work to his own property and our engineer confirmed that that kind of funny little curb extension isn't required for any ADA compliance or really engineering that he could understand he doesn't know why it's there and it is blocking the the driveway and where the garage has been since 2003. It looks like there's on street parking in current. Is that correct? There is and with the reduction of the right side which we're willing to forego there will be no lost on street parking spaces only two cars can fit there only two cars will be fitting there and the butter across the street confirmed that. I'm a little confused what's the reduction because you've just said that it's going from your proposing 20 to 30 what is it 38 or something else so where's the reduction that you're talking about. So the property to the right of the driveway or that that curb will be reduced that's what I was referring to because that's the only area where there is a even remote possible impact on on street parking. So the area where that people will be able to park on that curb will be shortened however you still have two full length spots on the street there they're not being taken away at all. But like I said he will completely forego the right side of this plan just as long as that's perfect. So I just want clarification there's two garage spaces one at each kind of at the ends of the house and then there's space in between. So theoretically you can really fit three parking spaces in front of the house. Without blocking the garage are you saying? Correct with blocking the garage because right now on Google Earth I'm seeing that there's a park the whole space is asphalted and on Google Earth you have a parked vehicle on the asphalt all the way to the right which is the one that you want to forego. So I'm assuming that you that you do park your vehicles outside of the enclosed garage. So if we were to go with the theory that you're going to forego to the right theoretically you can really fit three parked spaces in front of the go in front of the house. Right and you know it's to the to the side of the house technically to the front of the house. Correct. The front door is off of spring park. To the side of the house. Correct. But they they'll reduce that to just two to in front of the garages so that they can pull in. They if you look historically they almost never park cars in this driveway. Occasionally there will be one car parked on that apron. And they intend they originally submitted this plan without any parking on the on the driveway but they were asked to modify the plan and we call and then your electric charge the charger is going to be inside the garage or outside of it. They're already inside the garage and it's just that by virtue of having the electric car to get in and out of there in a way to utilize the charger he has to do this maneuver over the curb cut because he can't pull all the way. I think they're I submitted a picture which might show this a little bit more clearly but he's the you would be restoring you you would be restoring you would be adding curb to the right. No that curb is still there it's there right now. So that on this planet's on the screen the dashed lines are what's there. That would be the dashed line right to the dashed line right so you would just have to resubmit a new plot plan showing the right side there. Yeah interesting. Correct. Okay I think I have clarity but theoretically it would be it would be amantages to just green up the space. Definitely. That is true. I would say can you clarify to us because I'm still not understanding where the reduction in the what's yeah so I think Sherry I think it's easier to see on Google Earth if you have that if you have that capacity but basically what he's proposing is to the right where there are these dashed lines he the applicant is willing to keep that existing curb so not remove it as is shown here and then that way you can have access direct access to the garage space to the left then to the then then to the left it's true that the curb as it is is not allowing for a car to enter to the left side of the garage so it makes sense to remove that curb because it's already being kind of used as a parking space so I can understand that there's not that much of a you he's not they're not really taking away any park spaces because it's already being used almost as an access to access drive but they're expanding the curb the curb they are expanding the curb contrast to shifting the curb yeah they are they are expanding it by 10 foot six yeah and so is there a reason that you would have just shift the curb shift it so that it stays the same with since since I'm hearing that they're not using the right side or willing to give up the right side so if we shift it over then will you blocking the other garage the other garage okay so there's two garages one on the far left and one on the far right and over time of the same property yes it's two owner occupied condominiums each of them with their own EV stations okay so it's still confusing because then the Google Earth almost seems like the curb is already shifted beyond it doesn't show it like the plot plan yeah and on the regular Google map I mean it's showing a park park car that looks like it's blocking correct correct almost see it almost seems like the curb has already been removed in this Google Earth no I think that car was just wedged over there on that occasion there is a curve there there's effectively a full you know like three or four feet of carbon which overlaps the right parking spot where that park park car you have a picture of it yeah right here right here can we zoom in okay zoom in closer yeah there's also a street view I think one slide down right there right there is it's good so we're we're basically saying to remove the curb to the left and then the whether car is parked currently we're saying put that back to green space and then there should be a curb already in front of that parking parking park car yeah I mean this is more like fixing it for the owner you know the violation if there was to be a side-door relation is already existing that you know that's that would be my theory exactly so like I said if either submission of new plans showing only the left curb being removed with less parking spaces on the apron we're happy to to do that or a proviso it's you know really just for him to not have to drive over the curb to get into the garage okay just average any questions we do have some comments from BTD okay oh god because I didn't see them that's great you fine what mr. Domingo says is for 25 veristry all four parking spaces are only 14 feet 9 inches which is far below the BTD minimum of 18 feet in addition to that he says also due to the inadequate of the spaces this could result in a sidewalk over and make living a dangerous for bikes and pedestrians which I think this slide shows the concern yeah yeah so I think what's been presented to us is really that there's no park there's not going to be any park vehicles so for for this to work it only have to be an aisle driveway to get into the enclosed garage but there could be no parking spaces because I agree with Bob Domingo's comments that is not long enough so the only he when you do park in front of the garage there is no overhang that stone wall sticks out a little bit further but with the car whether the cars are backing out of a parking spot or the garage itself they are still backing over the curb which is why the suggestion of reducing it to maybe two parking spaces in total will maximize you know the visibility etc and basically maintain an existing condition of cars backing out of their garages on to birth street yeah we can only go with the plot plan you know and it's not meeting the parking dimension has put out by BTD so we can realize I see I see really it being the modifications really being an aisle to drive into your enclosed garage but it cannot be for park spaces we have a recommendation from BPDA and we can read that for the record so if we could ask for a deferral and we can try to modify and meet with Mr Domingo to address that and that would probably be a good idea I'm thinking that would be a good idea but I think for the record chair Don can you read BPDA's recommendation for the record it's a denial without prejudice I mean I guess my question is because I listening to Ms. Ben Baraza I hear the potential of a motion that that may work but if you want a deferral instead that's fine too if there's a there's a provider that would work that's not a denial we obviously prefer that but we're just concerned that a denial would put us in a situation where we'd have to start the process over would you would the applicant be okay that you can no longer park your car in front of the driveway well that's what it is right now so that is effectively a denial well that's not what the the request includes though the request includes for parking spaces so if we approved it as is it would allow you to park for parking pit spaces which we're saying we do not support right I think that what our request would be to reduce that to two with only the left curb cut but if that's not acceptable either with like an opportunity to try and reconfigure it perhaps diagonally or a way that we can gain it so I'd like to put forward a motion of deferral to allow the applicant to speak directly to be BTD but I think you've now heard all of our arguments and my concerns thank you May I have a second sorry ma'am chair we couldn't suggest the deferral date to December 7 just to give a little bit more time on this yep that sounds good okay so and you can go to the full board or this board that you know if you if you want additional opinion this can go straight to the full board as well that that is up to you to the board if you want to keep it at the subcommittee or if you think it requires board yeah I mean I think the subcommittees fine it's more time I value all of your opinion equally subcommittee will commit hits yeah I mean the the date work for you Mr. Merrill is maybe the main question um the date he's looking at which is a subcommittee yes let me just confirm I apologize yes it does thank you okay so I have a motion to defer I have a second Mr. Stembridge yeah I miss bed of rasa yes chair also votes yes motion carries see you then okay are we giving a 753 east Broadway another chance or so madam chair they're they appear to be on they're under as any bakery and cafe oh perfect I'm not sure why they didn't raise their hand but they're they're present oh sorry I didn't I this is my our first time doing this I didn't know I had to raise my hand I'm so sorry that while we're happy you're here so you know let's just read the case into the record first and we'll hear from you okay so this would be case B O A 1513760 with the address of 753 east Broadway so at this point please go ahead and explain to the board person from any of my name is Annie and I'm sorry yes ma'am please proceed hello yep we can hear you we took over a bagel place we used to have a bakery okay we had a bakery a block away and we took over a bakery a bagel place that's a block away from our old shop and all we're trying to do is remove the proviso for takeout from the old owner's name and add it to my name yeah great any any questions from the board that says straightforward as we get I don't think so no I'm any questions from the board not not you okay can we have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services this time we'd like to defer to the judgment board we understand that the applicant has reached out to the local civic association we're aware of any concerns and we know many in the community are excited for them to open in this new location with that will defer to the board thank you thank you mr. Newman hey man chair I have no raised hands thanks great uh may I have a motion and chair I like to perform a motion of approval may I have a second all right mr. Stembridge yes miss Betar-Raza yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you so much thank you you're welcome all right have a good night everyone you too thank you both thank you you you you you