 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you and Between or 3 or the the three well 24, 250 handcock, not sure if the report is here. I'm not clear from the letter. It's requesting a two year extension, but through February looks like of 2025. So I'm just not clear as a part of this back dating, or is it a request to go through 2027? I don't know if our council or the proponent is here. Terningly is available. Okay. Is she appellance? Can she answer the question? I can make her more. I'm not going to be the rest of your panelists. I'm about to be able to speak. Yes. Can you hear me now? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. February 2025, reference in our extension request is a reference to the existing building permit, which expires in February 2025. The request for an extension is for two years because the project is subject to state financing for the handcock building, and that is a process that's going to wind its way well into 2025. And gearing up again to build the project means that it could be more than a year from now before the project starts construction. So this was a two year extension request. Thank you for the question. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I have motion to approve the extensions as requested. Motion to approve the extensions as well. Wait a second. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Lawrence, yes. Yes. Mr. Lyon. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Next we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. At this time we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or the hurdles from this time period. Hearing none. Excuse me. First case, the BOA 160-3116. What the address of 319-327 Chelsea Street. If the applicant and the weather representative of present, would they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Thank you. The morning Madam Chair and members of the board for the applicant. This is Michael J. Mow, Rob McClendon, CLLP. With business address of one Boston place, Boston 0208. I have with me my colleague Matt and LaFeed and some other who were available to provide technical questions if there are any. This application can serve as a building mounted wireless facility at 317-327 Chelsea Street. Verizon is proposing this in order to provide better coverage and additional capacity to be increased demands on Verizon wireless network in this part of these Boston and the way to substantial gap in service. The building is a multi-failing residential condominium. It's shown in the center that picture lets up on the presentation screen. It's on a lot of the front, some both, Bremin and Chelsea streets. The building is five stories by the section facing Bremin Street, three stories by on the section facing Chelsea Street. And it's in the East Boston neighborhood district. And for purposes of this application, it's in the three F-2000 district. The purpose, and if you can go to presentation page four, if you have the ads. Yes, perfect, thank you. This match shows the current breakdown of which areas are served by which of the existing Verizon wireless facilities in and surrounding East Boston and the area coded right on this map. Is the area that's currently served by a Verizon wireless facility on the roof of the building at 183 Orleans Street, the corner of Orleans and Florida streets. That existing facility currently faces high and growing demand. And some of that demand needs to be offloaded for the system to function properly. If you can go to the next page, the map on the next page, thank you. So this page shows the proposed after condition. The area colored green on this map is the area that would be primarily served by the proposed new facility at 319 327 Chelsea Street. And as the art of engineer, he's affidated, filed as part of this application says the proposed facility will improve coverage and provide additional capacity in the green area. It's also going to improve coverage service within the ready area on the plan that's served by the existing site because we'll offload some of the demand that that facility would otherwise have had to handle. If you could go to page seven of the presentation, please. This is shown on the plans and this is the roof plan. The applicant proposed to install four antenna setchers each with five antennas. Now the facade of the five story part of the building one on each side of that part of the building. The intention to be colored to match the building walls behind them as shown on the photo simulation study that was submitted to the application. And what we're looking at here is our roof plan just to give you an orientation of where the components of this facility are going to be. The building facing Bremen Street is at the bottom of this plan. The four antenna sectors are shady yellow on this plan. You can see there's wide east side of the building. The one in the lower left. There's a little heart to see that's a sector where the antenna is going to be installed one above the other, but still facade mounted still below the roof. The roof behind each antenna sector is a four foot ten inch tall ballast frame, which will hold ripple moat radio heads and over voltage protection equipment that needs to be near the antennas. And these are shaded light green on the plans. It's the four rectangular areas behind each of the antenna sectors on the roof of the lower three story section of the building. Set well back from Chelsea Street and the other edges of that roof will be a 35 square foot equipment area. We want to put the cabinet and one battery cabinet in this area shaded light blue on this one is this plan. And then the lines connecting those are powering fire optic cables that will run across the roof to connect the various parts of the equipment. This project requires the following relief that we're seeing conditional use for building mounted wireless communication antennas in a residential district. I've condition used the way the requirement of a 50 foot setback of the facade mounted antennas from a building in residential use to allow the antennas as shown on the plans. And the violation letter also cited the requirement that roof mounted antennas be set back 10 feet or 10% of the roof roof debt. There are no roof mounted antennas as that's known as the finding are at least six. But if that setback requirement is applied to the power and radio equipment on those bells mounts, then we also require that relief and request that relief to allow the equipment to be as shown on the plans. Design and we will also be required for this project building mounted wireless facilities for the reason stated in our memory and the bottom day 16. It satisfies the standards for condition use approval and short. It is an appropriate location for the use buildings taller than the nearby buildings. Which allows the antennas to transmit and receive signals to the area that needs to improve service without obstruction from other structures. It's designed to minimize visual impact will comply with all the regulatory requirements for radio frequency and will not be noise interfere with electrical devices or other negative effects. And the improved service will be a benefit for residents and businesses and visitors to the neighborhood and to the city as a whole. The parking is also additional findings for granting relief from the dimensional requirements and has also addressed in our May 16th member and the proposed facility satisfies those findings. The applicants designed that facility to comply with the greatest extent possible with the commercial requirements given the location and configuration of the building. The proposal will be subject to design review and will not have any greater impacts than it would if it complied fully with the dimensional requirements. And at this point I'm happy to conclude the formal presentation and answer any questions to Jordan. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So notice that the facade mounted antennas do have screening from the elevations to the roof mounted ones have screening proposed or is that something to be settled in designer review. They don't have that proposed now that would be something we could address in design for the yes. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'm chair. I would just sort of second what a member we well said. I know the area well. I can understand why the building is suitable for this given the location you're part screening. If only needs to be part of it. I don't be pd recommend that so we can certainly come back to that in the motion. Thank you. Would that mean public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is other Jones representing the mayor's office to neighborhood services regarding 319 Chelsea Street office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including on a better meeting on July 11th, 24, which was attended by three constituents primary feedback from this meeting was constituents only had light concerns about interference with their other with their Wi-Fi or other connectivity devices that was as laged by the attorney. Additionally, I did receive a letter of opposition from a concerned resident citing visual and aesthetic clutter health concerns and the over saturation that sells powers in the area. The proposal was reviewed with the matter central neighborhood association which convened on August 21st, 2024. The association has expressed opposition regarding the proposal and provided a letter of opposition. At this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board's decision. Thank you for your time and consideration. Have a good day, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam. My name is Debbie Rassow. I am a resident and I'm also part of the Mad Rock Central neighborhood association board. When they came to us, there was multiple questions that were left unanswered. I believe this is cell site number five, furtherizing in East Boston. When I asked why we would need so many, they just said that because if one went down, they would need another. My opposition was, well, if this one goes down, then we go into say number six. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go into number seven. Number six goes down, then we go. Number seven goes down, then we go into number seven. Number seven goes down, then we go into number seven. Number seven goes down, then we go into over set back from the roof safe as much as possible. And that the facade mount the antennas are designed in such a way they match the color of the material facade. Is there a second? That can. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Eiken? Yes. Chair will just the motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 164-9869 with the address of 1020-1022 Benicone Street. Is the Apple can't handle their representative or brother will they play the case of the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board for the record Richard Lennes with a business address of 245-6 Sumner Street, East Boston on behalf of the petitioner, Jamie Cattle. We could probably jump down to slide four into some context for the area. So, Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing mixed-use building located in the organized section of East Boston directly across from Orange Heights T Station. The building currently is occupied as a ground level retail. Now, someone with residential units above which are total of four existing residential units. The proposal would change the legal occupancy from the ground level retail and four residential to ground level retail and five residential by proposing a renovation on a lowest level to add one additional unit. Would you have the next slide please? Mr. Burns, I agree with the building. We're not making any modifications to the exterior of the footprint's building. So, the pre-existing conditions will remain. And I'll run through the zoning in a moment, but I think you jump down perhaps to the next couple of slides. That's a couple of different views. Next slide please. Building is off to the left and that slide. This is the organized square section, next slide. Looking back towards our unit station, next slide. And probably can jump down to slide 11. Starting power set of the four plans, as you can see, the upper levels, there's no work being proposed. And any of the upper levels, all of the work will be located in the lower level. That lower level does have a full walkout condition as the grade from Benin's and Street to the back of the building does decrease. We do maintain, as you can see, and I do a better illustration of this on the right side of that lower level. We do maintain all of the utilities as well as the appropriate egress. If we can jump down to slide 13, that's probably a better view of a level plan. So you can see here that we do incorporate the two bedrooms that do have appropriate windows that are can comply to the state building code. And then this living area bathroom facilities towards the private building. This lower level, we mechanically ventilated and there will be the ability for a bar to access the living area as well. Again, all in accordance with the building code requirements. You can see on the right hand side that we do maintain the separate utility area, as well as the additional means of the egress. Next slide please. Probably jump down to slide 16, I believe. So you can see here that the building, again, the existing conditions remain from most of the building. The rear portion, as we can see on the lower left side, does that the addition of those windows, as well as the access point before egress of the building. Next slide please. Just our section plan, and showing that walk out condition, as well as the clear ceiling height is required under the building. Madam Chair, this was filed under the prior version of Article 53 and therefore the refusal that was cited in the public notice that was provided, sites and number of items under the prior zoning, specifically forbidden use insufficient light area, additional light area being insufficient, the floating area ratio and usable open space. As I mentioned in prior hearings, I believe we'll start seeing fewer and fewer of these coming before the board, but within the new designated EBR Ford District, all of those items are no longer zoning violations, specifically there is no longer a floor area ratio requirements or any additional floor space that is proposed would not be violation of code. In addition, there is no usable open space requirement that has been cited as well. And there is no minimum light area or additional light area for proposed parking requirements. We're also cited for off-street parking being insufficient. As the code requires any additional dwelling units that are provided to a preexisting non-informing building, your only requirements are provide parking for the additional unit that's being proposed. In this case, that would be one parking space in order to achieve compliance. Sure as the board is well aware, the city's policy, even if it were possible to add off-street parking to this site would favor against that because it does get Kirk cut to create one out of parking space. So I think based upon the proximity to public transit, as well as the minimal amount of relief that would be needed for the one additional parking space, we would request the area and support the one parking space. At this time, I will pause and ask if there are any questions from the board that I can address. Thank you. So can you address the bidding use, the basement use? And I believe the forbidden use being cited was, again, under the prior code. I believe that the concern, obviously, is sea level rise as well as proximity to the flood zone. This is not, I do believe we have the upper slide. That slide, three shows the actual location of the flood zone. I do believe this was cited originally, it's both G-card and coastal flood. But as you can see, the proximity of the flood zone is actually the MBTA right of way. And I think based upon the fact that it's located in close proximity, it is, you know, it's raised some concern over that. However, I wouldn't point out that 1022 depending on the future, it's elevation is much higher than the elevation of where the track bed lies, where the flood zone is located. So I think we can address all those concerns as well as having that full walk-up in addition to the rear property. Other questions from the board? Yes, Madame Chair. Attorney Lynn, can you be clear, is this a fourth unit adding a fifth? Is that in an EBR four zone? Yes, so through the Chair Mercedes, and this is pre-existing retail with four units, where it goes in the out of fifth unit, multi-family use is allowed in the EBR four, so that would not be a forbidden use. And what is the purpose of adding the fifth unit and in that basement level in an EBR four zone? Other than just adding additional dwelling unit, that's essentially the proposal. Okay, so there's nothing otherwise unique about the property that requires adding another unit to it. If that's the question on whether the variance standard is met with the additional fifth unit is in a lot of use, so I don't believe there's some requirement to demonstrate whether there is a standard of that. Okay, thank you. Thank you, any other questions from the board? Hearing none, they have public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Elizabeth Jones, I represent the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Regarding 1020 to 1020 to Benning, 10th Street office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including a butter's meeting on July 17th, 2024, which was not attended by any constituents. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with Oyan Heights Neighborhood Association, which can be in November 16th, 2024. The association has expressed support regarding the proposal and ultimately, OHANA has voted 12th in favor for a post and one abstaining. At this time, the mayor's office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you, here, time to consideration. Thank you. I do have a raised hand here. Okay, Elaine. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Elaine Dunnevin, with Council of the Colleagues of Pottas Office, the Council would like to go on record and support at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And I have no additional missing. Thanks. Would that may I have a motion? I'd like to be motion to approve based upon the fact that it's adding another unit within the existing EBR 4ZO, which is allowed and that the parent elevation of the building seems all right, even though it's within the C-Frog district. Say it comes. Okay, that's the standard. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Longham. Yes, ma'am. Is it all right? Yes. Mr. Eigley. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, Mr. Bidag. Next, we have case B08, 163, 9678. Would the address of the release Fenway? If the applicant can do what they represent, or present, would they please explain to the board? Yes. Hello? We can hear you. All right. Okay, my name's Tom Backwars. I am the owner of Unit 1, which is the unit that's under consideration here and the architect of the project. 30 Fenway is a five unit mixed use condominium building. And the building permit application includes work to the common area of the building, the units 1, 2, and unit 5. The zoning code violations are only due to the work proposed for unit 1, which is to split it into two units. The primary reason for doing this is to gain the elevator currently opens in directly into unit 1. And I would like the elevator to open into the common all way to increase the accessibility of that floor. Could we have page 5? Yes, that's the page. You can see the proposal here. Or perhaps there's some supplemental materials where there's a floor plan that's labeled 4-30 Fenway Unit 1 existing proposed drawing. I don't know if you have that. Yeah, it would be that drawing that you just passed, I think. Yes, right there. You can see the existing conditions down at the bottom where the elevator opens directly into the unit. And the proposal above where the elevator opens into a hallway that then works in the elevator of hallway that then works its way to the common all. This provides accessibility to the basement floor, the rear door, the garbage areas, the service areas of the building, and most importantly to the garage unit that's in the back. The garage unit is currently part of unit 1, but I'm going to transfer the ownership of that to unit 5, which is the top floor, which is another part of the project. That's an office currently, and we're going to be converting that to residential. And I'm going to be living in that unit. So, and using the garage, so the accessibility of that is very important. When you add that, I'm going to hallway in there, it does a good job of destroying the two middle rooms there and turning them just into always with deep closets on either side or something. And it seemed to be produced much better for plans to divide the unit into the, when the building was made a condominium in 1985, this was originally two office units. So, it has two electric meters, two service, two of every service. And as you can see, the black walls that are shown in that upper plan, very little has to be built to have this become two units again. It also has two air conditioning systems in it. So, it makes it very easy to split. So, that's pretty much the project. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing this. Yes, questions. When you lay out, I only see one bathroom. If the rest of units, I only see one bathroom at this moment. I'm going to say. No, there's an existing bathroom that's right to the left of where it says unit B, 1B. That's the existing bathroom. And that's staying and then right now the opposite, the elevator is a new bathroom. So, in addition to those walls to make this two units, you have to add one bath and one kitchen. Okay. Is right below where it's labeled one? The new kitchen is right where it's labeled below 1B. And then the new bathroom is right below the elevator. Okay. Yes, yes. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sige Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This proponent has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on September 4th during which no concerns were raised. The Fenway Civic Association has submitted a letter of support for this proposal. That's the active civic association in this area. With that background, we defer to the government of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Madam Chair, I have a question for you. Yes, good morning. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Good morning. My name is Jonathan Knox. I'm the butter immediately above unit 1, 30 Fenway unit 2. And I just wanted to record it my support of this application. Thank you. And we have no additional release in that moment. Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, may I make a motion of approval with two providers? The first one is that the plan has to be submitted with planning the pardon for review. The second is that there is no willing code allowed for the best man units. No, the call relief. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Valencia, was you consider just having a Boston planning review and then the building department and ISD will do a separate review? Okay. There is a case only one provider for the planning department review. Thank you. Okay. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Poverlach. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. I'm sorry. That Jeff Hampton was your hand was raised. Thank you, Madam Chair. Sorry. Jeff Hampton, City Boston planning department. We asked for design review just to make sure that there was no building code issues. What census is all internal? I don't want it. So it could be straight approval from our point of view. We were concerned about building code issues, but the council thinks that ISD will review this. I don't want it to design review. Are you making us revote or will you just punt it when it gets to you? Well, no, because ISD is going to make us stamp the plants because there's a motion. So I would ask for a re-boat, please. Mr. Valencia, would you like to make a motion? Make a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Second. Right. Mr. Stumpich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Mr. Hampton needs to raise your hand faster. Next time. All right. You know, we got the mice in City Hall at the end of that small over here. Okay, Mr. Stumpich. Next, we have patient viewer, one, six, four, nine, five, seven, two, with the address of 471 West Broadway. If the applicant and or their representative or parent, would they please explain to the court? Good morning, Madam Chair. The members, my name is Charlie Tevne. I'm an attorney with the business address of 15 Broad Street, Boston. I'm here on behalf of the applicant, Stena Nenton, on land, both of whom are logged on to the scene. The proposal is to convert the formal former team-owned retail cellular store to a small casual restaurant, play a ball with takeout. 471 West Broadway is located in a multi-family residential local service district. A restaurant would take out at this location, conditional use. Play a ball, a quick service restaurant which serves healthy, fresh, a sayy, superfood, bowls, smoothies, juices, and coffee. This is a mature franchise with locations in 22 states, in which entered Massachusetts in 2019. There are now 10 Boston area locations, all of which are owned and operated by the applicants who are former Boston College classmates. This will be the team's third location in Boston. The first location is located on Coma, Evan Brighton, the Boston College, the second location on Hunter, Denavid, and the Northeastern. The butter's meeting was held on August 12, the Azoom, no one appeared in opposition. The applicants reached out to Councilor Flynn and we believe his office is in support of this application. We respectfully ask the board to grant this conditional use permit. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Stiggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services is completed. The ONS community process is on August 12, which no concerns were raised. The St. Vincent's lower-end neighborhood association shows not to take a position on this proposal. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. We're morning managers and members of the board, Laura. Here for Councilor Flynn's office. At this time, the council would like to go and record support of this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no other ways to implement this. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? May I have a motion? A motion to approve? May I have a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Good job. Yeah. Mr. Williams, yeah. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Huykin. Yes. Mr. Huykin. Yes, Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board and thank you Madam Ambassador. Thank you. Next we have case B081565204 with the address of 534 Massachusetts Avenue. If the applicant ends or they represent the present, what they please appoint the case of the board. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Ivan Hernandez. The proposed project is for a 24 foot 10 inch by 7 foot deep rear deck at 534 Mass Ave. There are very similar decks in the neighborhood and basically that plan there that's on the screen right now. There's an existing, if you look at the lower left side rear elevation of the house, is an existing wood structure on the, I believe that's the second level of the building. And right up above that structure we're proposing a deck. As I said, 24 10 by 7 foot deep, it would be constructed mainly of steel, brought iron railings to match the surrounding balconies and steel columns coming down to a load bearing points below. If you go over to the next page, the next sheet, it would show the proposed deck and that decking, actually there it goes. On the upper right side you'll see the proposed floor plan of the deck. Well, the proposed, the access to the proposed deck, but it yet would be replacing an existing window with a door. That door would actually open into a bedroom. There we would also connect the existing fire escape to the new deck to maintain obviously emergency, grass materials would be fire rated, but on either side of the deck to come from with building code requirements. If you go to the next page, you'll see proposed materials on the back of the deck itself. That's an elevation of the proposed deck in the middle and then side elevations on either side. As you see, there's the existing wood frame deck on the lower level and we would construct a new deck above. It would not extend as far as the existing deck. It would just extend out of 7 feet from the house. Materials on the floor that decking would be a time-roof material in order to avoid the brie and nor early anything from up above coming down to the lower deck. We want to keep the lower neighbors as best possible by minimizing anything falling down to the lower deck area. The proposed door would be a four panel door kind of tie in and complement the architectural details of the existing windows. It would be a door. The middle lower area there shows the proposed decking and then over to the right the windows. There would be actually a couple of windows that would be replaced that would be a modern window units, but that's just a guess more for the other board there to review. That's pretty much the scope of further project. We had neighborhood meeting and there was support for the project. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Just because there's any raised hands? I can't see any raised hands. I want to see one. Okay. Hearing none, no. May I have a motion? I make a motion of approval with a device so that the lens should be submitted to a sound and landmarks commission. Is there a second? That can. It's just an average. Mr. Lanzier? Yes. Mr. O'Neill? Yes. Mr. O'Neill? Yes. Mr. O'Neill? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have case B O A 162 2321 with the address of 757, 51 to 757 Dumbestreet. This is an R for any case. Is the applicant's handle of their representative present with their place in the case of the board? Yes. One minute. Hold on. Good morning, Mr. Secretary. I'm Bernie Joseph Beaster with my associate Patricia Flattigan from the Lord firm of Dane Torby, 175 State Street in Boston. I want to wish the board members and the panelists and attendees a happy fall. Joining me as well on here are the applicants and the developers, Mark and Stuart Salzburg, our consultant, Ms. Fisherman, from MLF Consulting LLC. The person who's going to make the presentation is Douglas Steppinov, who is from Steppino Architects. As this project is, this is a project, as was mentioned by the Secretary to Winthrop, Article 80 with an extensive community process. I think that's the process. Many letters of support have been filed home with the now Ms. Office of Planning, but then VPDA previously BRA. And to erect a six story, makes use of building on the newly created 9,000, 9,000 and then 8 square foot, but a lot. I'm going to move 48 residents to units, one general retail space, parking garage, roof deck, and amenity spaces with bike rooms. I will ask at this time for Mr. Steppinov to take the board through the project. Doug? Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you very much for your time today. Thank you, Joe, for the introduction. I'd like to present to you a proposed mixed use development on a corner of Dudley and Virginia streets and the up on corners, neighborhood district on Dudley Street. This building, the Salberg family have owned the property for several decades. It's currently a single story retail building. As you can see, yes, and in the site plan, you can proceed. And we propose a commercial and parking on the first floor. And on floors two through six apartments, this would be a rental building with roof deck for common amenity. The mix of the units are a variety of one studio, one, two, and three bedroom units, which we thought would be a good mix for the neighborhood. We have ample or both bus and train transit options available, the up and corner MBTA stop being but a very short walk and bus lines running down Dudley Street. As Mr. Feaster mentioned, we have met with six of the community groups with favorable reports. We've been through BPDA slash planning review and suggestions and updates on the exterior. You can proceed through the drawings, please. The next ones we go to the floor plan. That's just the next place if you would. We have proposed street trees both on Virginia and Dudley Street. There's a bus stop right in front of the building. So we're limited there, but we retract the building from the property line to provide ample space on the sidewalk that actually is greater than the complete streets program. As you can see in the gray area there at the bottom, 3,500 square feet of commercial space, 52 bikes in a bike room, immediately off the Dudley Street. Parking is access. That's our typical floor. Central elevators and corridor with units wrapping around the perimeter. We're able to get balconies on the back and on Virginia Street to provide some outdoor space. We have a brick. If you stop there for a second, a combination of brick and terracotta first floor picking up the brick materials that are commonly found on Dudley Street. This is with our BPD 8 planning review and then a mixture of terracotta and metal panel exterior. There are several buildings of this scale on the street. The street is mixed with lower retail and then some larger residential units comparable to our proposed building. As you have in front of you, we are seeking relief from a number of zoning items being parking. The obviously use is conditional off street loading would be the tenant, which is not specified or known at this time. The floor ratio, height and rear yard. I open the table up to any questions you may have. Before we go to questions, Matt, there was much discussion in the community about the bike room. Obviously, my client as a developer complied with what the mayor's office of House was firing, but I wanted to note that for the board at this time. So that will take into question from the board. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, I have a question for Mr. Stefanalf. Your project is providing six IDP units. Is that correct? I think we have more than that. I think that is correct. So six. And the question is maybe Jeff Hampton can help us with this as well. The IDP requires 30% of the units to be affordable. In this case, it should be no less than 6.24 units. So two times is seven or more. So what is the reason that your project is providing less than the 30% required by the IDP? Normally, if the number is 6.5 or less, the rest of the allocation is turned into a contribution to the fund. So if it was 6.6, yes, that would be rounded up to seven. But as we're below 0.5, just to speak about community benefits as well, which I think didn't get mentioned. We are proposing a contribution to improve the blue bike program on Ramsey Street. So there's a half seasonal blue bike installation that gets dismantled in the winter for snow removal. And the Salisbergs have offered to provide for a enlarged curb to allow for a year-round presence for that. So that in addition to the monies that would be paid to complement the six units that comprises our affordable housing offer. Thank you. Yes, I appreciate that. Usually we see projects providing a little more than the 13% for 15-20% depending on how they negotiate with the housing office of housing. But I appreciate your explanation. Thank you very much. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Yes, I have one small question concerning the roof decks. I like to know how many roof decks is in that area? There's a new development kind of kitty corner across the street. I believe they have a small roof deck. There aren't any others in the area. We've retracted this from the edge. So it's almost 15-20 feet back from the edge of the building. This roof deck will be invisible practically from the street. And it's for residents only. It's not a public roof deck. So the views and the south is to the back of the building. We think this would be actually very nice for the tenants and not a new sense to the neighbors. Mr. Langham, if I might add, this is an attorney's beaster. There was definitely genuine support within the community. Both from the U-butters. It's a church, it's a adjacent to this property. You have many of others along Virginia Street. And as Mr. Stepanoff said, there is one new structure that was built recently within the pet year or so that has the roof deck. We have set this back just to be sensitive to unsure the concerns which you might ask. Thank you. Mayor of public testimony. I'm Mr. Smith. I'm Chair and members of the board. I'm Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's does have been deferred to the judge for this board. This went through a BPA led community process involving a public meeting early in January of 2024. Those are a mix of comments received from the community. Some were supportive, really liking that there was going to be retail space on the ground floor that would keep the part of the neighborhood active. There was some concerns raised by a butters regarding the proposed density of the project, the design, some felt that there was not enough architectural features on it as well as concerns regarding the roof deck. They were in contact by understanding the U.S. West side who although having some concerns ultimately did not take a stance on this proposal. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Remiss from Council for the Federal's Office. I'd like to go on records or this proposal. Any other official offices? Okay, then I'm going to join. Hi. Okay. I've never done this before online only in person, so I'm a little confused, but. So stay tuned with your name and address and briefly tell us the current support opposition. Thank you. My name is Joanne Teller. I live at Six Manathok Street, which is basically a block from the proposed project. And I'm in support of the project, although as one of the board members raised, I would like to see a higher proportion of the of the apartments be affordable. You may know that Eppams Corner is was featured in the globe as being an example of development without displacement and affordable housing is very important to us in the neighborhood in general. But I think not the Salisburg brothers have done their their work to communicate with the neighborhood, which is important. And I think this building is in scale with not so much the older parts of the neighborhood, but with what you know what's been getting built around in recent years. So as I said, I support the project, I'd like to provide so that I would like to see more affordable units. Thank you. Melch, I have no dish always. Thank you. That may have motion. The project has been proposed, um, system with a number of other things that happened in the community and all the planning efforts that have been underway for a number of years there. So have you supported? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the notion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you all. Next, we have case viewing 162589 or with the address of 530 to 5.22 Washington Street. The applicant and the representative of present. The point. The case report. Hello, everyone. I am the room. I am in the process of taking over 20 states and 20. At the 532 Washington Street, Dr. St. Thank you for being here today before the ownership transfer is complete. I'm applying for the takeoff service permit, no more for why show this is just a legal procedure. No changes will be made to the restaurant. We will continue serving the same American style Chinese food that community community lives. Thank you for your support. No questions from the board. Can I put the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Conor, anyone with the mayor's office, neighborhood services. It's time we'd like to defer to the judge or this board with no real operational changes. We're unaware of any concern. Without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. That may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Second. Mr. Steinberg. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. William. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Chairman, it's just a motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case of BOA 164-471 with the added us of 108 Florence Street. If the applicant is or they represent the president, would they explain to the board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My wife, Michelle and I are owners of 108 Florence Street. Today, we're presenting our proposal to maintain the property as a four unit building, while adding an additional floor to expand the top two units. So our plan is to keep the property as four units with the first floor units, remaining as one bedroom, one bathroom apartment with an office, approximately 800 square feet each, which you can see on slide two. Thank you. The top two units on slide three, units three and four, located on second and third floors will be expanded to three bedrooms, three bathroom apartments, roughly 1500 square feet, providing larger family-friendly spaces. The completed exterior design is available for review here on slide four. The property currently includes a driveway with five parking spaces, which is sufficient to serve all four units. As long time residents of Rosendale, we understand the growing demand for larger family-sized apartments. And preparing for this proposal, we host a bold of butters and neighborhood meetings, and we receive positive feedback, which is clearly about the increase in the size of families. Regarding the current property that's shown on slide ten, it consists of four one bedroom units, which we believe do not meet the needs for the families. Trying to live in the area. This extension will help meet the community's demand for larger living spaces by enhancing the upper two units. That currently concludes my presentation, and I just wanted to thank you for your time, and I'd be happy to address any concerns or questions you may have. And I have additional support with me, my architect, with various technical questions that you may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board, for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberley. I am the Rosendale community and given specialists for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of an abundance meeting on August 5th, where a bonus voice concerned regarding whether the property would be owned or occupied or for rent. They also have voice concerns with affordability and the time frame of the construction. The project then presented to the City Halley two Cummings and Neighborhood Association, who voted neutral on the project. Thank you for your time and the most office of Neighborhood Services, we'd like to defer to the board for the general office. Madam Chair, I know he stands. Would I may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion out of approval. We'll have a second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Rieking? Yes. Mr. Rieking? Yes. Mr. Rieking? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have HBOA. 163. 162. With the address of 4228 to 4230 Washington Street. If the applicant and the representative of the presence, would they please tell me the case through the board? I.S. D. Lee Gold. Apologies for the interruption. I.S. D. Lee Gold. I.S. D. Lee Gold. Apologies for the interruption. I.S. D. Lee Gold. Apologies for the interruption. The applicant went to City Hall unknowingly and so cable and myself are trying to set them up with technology to be able to present. They are the attorney for this case. We would ask that we would please punt this to the last case of the 930 section just to give them appropriate time to get set up. That sounds good. Thank you so much. So let's move on to 35. Is 35 going down with? Case B.O.A. 163. 2893. With the address of 351 L.N. Road. If the applicant and or their their representative presence, would they please put the case through the board? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Vice-Chair and Mr. Meggeron on the board. Thank you for having us today. My name is Floor Angoka and I'm the architect of the project. This is an existing single family family residence in West Rapsbury as you can see in this first slide. And if I can jump you a little bit around slide number six to show you what we're proposing to do. The current house is a three bed and one bathroom house and we are. One more down please. Yes. So we intend to we're proposing an addition at the rear of the house consisting of an office and the second bathroom and the entrance vestibule within the existing covered porch. So if I can jump you to the last slide please. Just to give you an idea how the current house the very last one you don't know there were some pictures there. The rubbish is so basically on the upper right corner you see the rear elevation with the addition at the back and right below it. It's the proposed front elevation with that added entrance vestibule. The zoning violations for which we've been cited mostly dealing with the dimensional requirements. If we can go to the first page so we can take a look at the zoning table. The existing lot is just a little bit over three thousand square feet in a zoning area where the minimum allowable lots is six thousand square feet. But the first page if you go on one more up please. So the zoning that are table there is you can see the existing property is three thousand one hundred and sixty eight square feet while they allow all minimum lots of six thousand. So right there is the is the. We have the problems with the floor area ratio in the open space because the house is fairly small size is turkey hundred square feet. So we do ask for relief for the FAR and usable open space while we have been cited for the setbacks and you can see the side sidebacks are existing non conforming but we do not plan to change those while the rear setbacks is this is a small lot under the article 5640 section 5640. So we can have a reduction of the rear rear setback down to nineteen and a half feet so we were currently proposing twenty feet. So the only remaining setback it's in the front which we're existing non conforming at twelve feet right now and it's mean closing we were supposed to close a corner of that existing porch. We'll bring down the setback to six point five feet so that's is a is a lot. The project that can be asked any other questions I'd be what an happy to. Okay questions from the board. Hearing that can I probably testimony madam chair members of the office of neighborhood services this applicant has completed the community process our office had the applicant distribute an informational flyer to a butters which solicited no comments they also presented to the West Rocksbury neighborhood council supported the application with that background we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam motion. Well she know. Second. Mister Stembridge. Yes. Mister Valencia. Yes. Mister Langham. Yes ma'am. This we will. Yes. Mister Eakin. Yes. The chair votes yes the motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 162. 86. 44. With the address of 154. Or form row. If the applicant is the end of the representative present with their police. Thank you. I'm learning. I just have to request a new email. Yes. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes we can. Okay. Thank you very much. Members of the board. This is a proposal for a single single family home. I don't know. Jason lot on arm road in West Rocksbury. The owners in the mine and belly of the day live in the adjacent building at 772. And I think that's a good idea. In a home that they find oversized and proposed to move to a new home with a. A floor area of 1,867 square feet. With a lot area of 4,374 square feet. This results in a floor area ratio of 1.42. A minimum or maximum floor area allowed 0.4. And the proposed building is 2 and a half stories. Three bedrooms. With an attached to car garage. The violations for usable open space floor area ratio. And setbacks are based on the size of the lot. And the size of the project. We believe that the proposal is in keeping with the neighborhood. And we'll contribute to the streetscape. We're currently making lots used only for off street parking. Exists. Any questions from the board. Hearing none, Mayor Public testimony. Members of the board, sing Johnson with the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the ONS community process. And the button is meeting on August 8th at which a button was spoken opposition to the proposal on the basis of insufficient lot size and insufficient setbacks. They also presented to the West Rocksbury neighborhood council which was which voted to oppose the proposal on the same basis. And that's why we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none, Mayor Emotion. Is there motion? No, I'm sure I make a motion of approval with approval. So that the answer should be submitted to the planning department for review. And that's a two departments of part of the creation. In third second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Ronesia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. We will. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Chairman and members of the board. Next we have HBOA 162-8698 with the address of 179 Church Street. It's the applicant and though they represent the president. If they please find the case to the board. I have your hand. Hello. I am leading my hand. Are you here for 179? Yes. Okay. Can you stay journey and address for the record? Hi. Can you hear me? Okay. So is this you? I don't know. I'm the owner of the house. And we are requesting extending our driveway. So we have one more question. We would like to extend it to two cards. Okay. What can you, what does that entail? Sorry. The correct one. We are not requesting a card. It's just expanding the driveway. Okay. We are not requesting a card. It's just expanding the driveway. So the card does not need to be widened? No. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, madam. Sure. I have a few questions. I mean, it does look like they are widening it from about 11.7 feet to 16. So I think that my concern is with the most left or left parking space. How will that maneuver out if both spaces are occupied? It doesn't even look like the width of the card card extends to that space. So I asked, I've been the neighborhood counselor, I think. So that card card is only allowed up to 14 feet. And 14 feet is not going to change anything that you are describing. So that is a situation now. It's really hard for me to get any answer to what I can do. So I just, so in that case, we will figure it out, I think. Okay. Yeah, I think I question how this will work. But I'll just leave that for my colleagues. I will never forget the quite a few. I think I will be in the maneuver today. Did the same thing. Well, does that require one stall backing over the curb? Or do you need to move that right vehicle in order to get the left out? And by, you know, and to get in if it is occupied. So it, to me, it just seems like this isn't right for this site. But I, that's how I see this. I see Mr. Hampton has his hand raised as well. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hampton. So the Boston Planning Department. We recommended denial on this. We're not favor front yard parking to begin with. I understand that it's already existing for the one space. We also have concerns about I think there's a pretty mature tree where they want to point this parking spot that will have to come down. And the other thing if they actually expand this curb, but I think it was a sewer right next to the expansion. I don't know how that plays out with public works or BTT or anybody else, but for us, we're on the record recommending denial. It's just not something that we support. And we also know that there's street on the street. So we recommended that. Thank you. Thank you. Can the applicant address the concerns around the mature tree and which I guess? The tree, by the way, has been torn down. There was a storm about a year ago, likely. There was a tree there, but then we need to cut it down because it was damaged after the storm. Okay, so no tree. Other questions from the board? I think it's a question also common. I guess I also don't understand how this functions with the curb cut there and not driving over the curb. So that's not working for me. And I agree that some dimension doesn't work here, especially with that curb cut and making it much larger. So I guess one question is, is there not street parking available? So people use our street as... It's not the quiet street. Like two weeks ago, maybe last month, there was a major accident that somebody just... Just like the car parked on the street. And it's a little bit... after the COVID, it is a little bit busy in the morning. People use it as... how do you call it? The music parking. No, it's not for the parking, but... On the cars, just passing by, we had a wrist-locked bit of parkway, but people don't use it anymore. Mr. Reagan, there is a street park there. Yeah, okay. Thank you. And I see other conditions that look like in the neighborhood where people do have some side-by-side, but not necessarily when you have to go dig down and build a whole retaining wall. And excavate from the parking. So, it's not sure what the need really appears to be for this. That's all for me. Thank you. All right. Any other questions? Sharing none, can I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Ciggy also with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the OMS community process. They distributed an informational flyer to a butters which solicited no comments to our office. Proponents also presented to the West Rocksbury neighborhood council which voted to support this application. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Neighborhood? Yes. Neighborhood. We're going to go to the testimony. Neighborhood? No, we have no additional waste hands. Okay. With that, ma'am, motion. Madam Chair, I'm willing to put forward a motion of denial. I think for the reasons stated earlier, the site just doesn't lend itself to this configuration. And they're not showing adequate access to the site via the curb cut. It's a par and can't accommodate both vehicles. There was second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. Mr. Linden. Yes. Mr. Walb. Yes. Yes. Mr. Akin. Yes. Mr. Akin. Yes. Mr. Oslovich, yes. The motion carries. Next, we have five B-A, one five zero, eight four five five. Okay. Yes. Yes. Good morning, ma'am, Chair and members of the board. The office is located at 10, 12, Linden Road. If the office can't endure their representions, would they please the department here? Hi, ma'am. Can you hear me, okay? Yes. Good morning, ma'am Chair and members of the board. The office is located at 10, 12, Linden Road in Brighton. We built a two-level deck in the back of the property. The assistant deck is about 17 feet wide and 550. So we're proposing to build an increased depth to 10 feet. That would allow the occupant to be more spaced to spend some time outdoors. So the deck would be made up of the compressed wood posts and composite material. So if you look at the drawing from the deck, when it's built to the back of the property, you still get ample space, I mean, 21 feet. The kind of stairwell when we made it same. So the only thing we would present to expand the depth of the deck, from five to 10 feet, I mean, it's a pretty simple project. And right now, I'll be five feet of depth. There's just enough space for the folks who move around. Yes, that's pretty much it. Any other questions on the board? In the afternoon, public testimony. Is there any public testimony? Can you please stand? I guess, let Gerald go ahead. I don't know where our staffer is. We had the applicant circulate flyers to a butters with 300 feet. We did not receive any feedback. I understand that they connected with the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. I don't believe there was any concerns regarding that either. That will be first the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reasons? Will that be on the motion? Motion to approve. I have a second. Back yet. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Laiwen. Yes. Mr. Rui-Low. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Good. How are we with the case that we have for 20 Washington? 28 to 40. Yes. I'm here. I'm ready to present. Ready to present. Ready to go? Yes. Is anyone present? What's the case? Yes. This is Adam Rogoff as the applicant. Okay. Great. Thank you. Okay. Please be aware. 163. 1620. The address of 42. 2232 Washington Street. The applicant is now present. So would you go ahead? Please. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, I realize I presented to this board before I'm an attorney by training. But I've crossed the line to being old school because I came downtown. Thank you for accommodating me with this change. I am also the owner of the substation, which is in Rosenthal if you're not familiar with it. It's a building that was a former MBTA substation was boarded up from 1971 to 2016 when it went through a big renovation. It has had a number of failed uses over the years since then because it was hard to find a sustainable business model that would support the very expensive historic building. So with my business partner, Laura Charles, we have developed a business which really essentially works to activate the building at all times. So we do three things. We run co-working during the day. We have a beer hall which is a legacy use of some prior brewers that had set up pop-ups in there. And we run events. Both public events and private events on the event side, we do a lot of community events. We do a lot of arts and cultural programming. We have performances, circus performances, open mic nights. We have spoken word, fitness, wellness, dance, comedy. We've even hosted the mayor's office hours when they were rained out in Adam's park. In an addition to that, we donate every quarter the space for any mission driven organizations, certain mission driven organizations. So we have in order to run this, been doing on the alcohol side with one day alcohol licenses and we've applied to the city. We've been approved for an alcohol license. And now with the state law, we are positioned to go before the state for an alcohol license. But on the entertainment side, we've been pulling one day entertainment licenses, which is cumbersome and costly for us and to the city. So in order to make that change, to be able to get an annual entertainment license, we need to have the zoning change. So simply what we're asking for today is zoning relief to have a bar with live entertainment added. I will say that a second thing we would like is that over the years, the various uses have been added and applied to different parts of the building. So we're hoping at the same time we can clean up the uses. So and the proposal that came from ISD is not how we envisioned it. But I would like to, if the board will allow the ability to work with the legal staff to have something that is a little shorter and clearer. But essentially what we're looking for today simply is a bar with live entertainment use. It was a conditional use. And then I should say that also what was provided from ISD also shows that we are looking to increase the size of the capacity of the building. That is not something that requires any zoning relief, but it is apparently on the proposal. Looks here. Questions from the board. Gary, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a call on our newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information community process, Owen S. Oson, a butters meeting on August 19th. There were no concerns raised in that meeting. The applicant with them went on to connect with the West Village Neighborhood Association, which also did not express any concerns to our understanding. I will understand that this is a very popular establishment in the community. With that, we'll defer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional raise hand. Okay. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I think this is a critical proposal. I know they have been doing a lot of work to activate the site and activate the area and without any more significant approval. Is there a second? That's right. Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lainem. Yes. Ms. Wilo. Yes. Mr. Apen. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay. I will see everyone at 1130. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.