 you you you you you you so33 water All right, can we start the slides? Are we good or do I need to wait till it's recording? Recording in progress. All right, good morning. The City of Boston's only board of appeal here in for June 25th, 2024 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar in that platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Members of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. But that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who are closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Clicking again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So like yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise a lower in your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their compliment. If you have time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. O'Leary. Good morning, President. Good morning, Ms. Padauto. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin with the approval of hearing events, scheduled for 9.30. We have a number of dates to approve starting with April 25th of this year, April 30th, May 7th, May 16th, May 21st, and June 4th. I'll make a motion to approve and announce. May I have a second? Good, then. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, Madam. Mr. Collins. Okay. Yes. Ms. O'Leary. Yes. Ms. Padauto. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Next, we move on to the extension schedule for 9.30 a.m. I will read the case number and the address for the case of all together, one after another. And then we'll take the motion to accept it as it is. All of these request for extension are for one year. So, case B-O-A1044561 with the address of 86, Fairmont Street, case B-O-A1163856 with the address of 1175, go just the rabbit. Case B-O-A118, 78055 with the address of 61 Torres Street, actual. Along with that, we have case B-O-A118, 7853 with the address of 63 Torres Street. Then we have case B-O-A1348765 with the address of 155 Portland Street. Next, we have case B-O-A1175767 with the address of 16 to 22 in the street. Next, we have case B-O-A1175793 with the address of 6 to 4, then we have case B-O-A1173962 with the address of 28 handsbottle street. Next, we have case B-O-A486152 with the address of 270, go just the rabbit. Then we have case B-O-A1211031 with the address of 134 Torres Street. And finally, we have case B-O-A8301090 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the address of 4, then we have case B-O-A1300 with the Yes Mr. Collins, Yes Mr. Obiiyoruz, yes Mr. Pa�odo, yes Chair votes yes the motion carries comments started ahead of this month, we'll start off with case B-O-A1592730 with the address of 135 shelter schools. That was approved. Next we have case B-O-A1569956 with the address of 867 to 871 miles of street. That was approved. Then we have case B-O-A1584046 with the address of 314 to 330 west second street. That was approved. Next we have case B-O-A157655A with the address of 118 F street, which was approved. The F case B-O-A1548719 with the address of 293 Northamph street. That was approved with the EPA design. Then we have case B-O-A1548439 with the address of 111 to 113 H street. That was approved. Case B-O-A1262365 with the address of 18 colias park that was approved. Case B-O-A1542663 with the address of 11 Adam Street, was approved. Case B-O-A1578190 with the address of 8 D.C. Street, was approved. Next we have case B-O-A1589504 with the address of 130 central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central, central. Case B-O-A156739 with the address of 30 to 32 H street, which was deferred until today. which was deferred until today's year. No, no, sorry, it was a full, no, no, building code. Then we have case, beaway 15973, or two, the address of 21, so over the street, which was deferred until today's, until today. And finally, case beaway 15552488, the address of 340 Baker Street was approved, which designed for the plan third floor, bad chair, that is all for presentation. Thank you, Mayor Lotion. Motion to open the recommendations. Mayor, the second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lamy. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Next. Next. Next. We move on to groundwater conservation, over the district, tone, street, street, 930. What we have is case beaway 1592, 420, the address of 131, Commonwealth Avenue. It's the applicant's, and the representative is present. The page is in the corner. Is Donna Diaz present? I don't know if you want to raise your hand or is to invest in the chat. So the representative for this project, which is only to subpartify a part here. Okay, I'm going to suggest we keep going. That then we'll move on to the hearings, scheduled for 930 AM. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Just at this time, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this time frame for you. House. Yes, you're right. I have my hand raised. Kevin Joyce. Is case number BLA 159 7093 22 million square and requested deferral. On this matter, yes, daily received. Information from the board of appeal, and from the BPDA, that seems to be, you may ask questions as to whether it was cited for the properly leaked by the ISD. So I like some time to clarify that. Okay, Mr. Stambridge needs to read it into the record. Thank you. So again, that would be case BLA 159 7093 with the address of 22 million square. Kevin Joyce. 53 on street, Boston, requesting deferral. I'm not quite a friendly leave needed with ISD. Samantha, do you have a hearing date? I'm not on the chair. We have a date of July 30th. If that's not long enough, we could do August 13th. I would wish something. I have joy. Three. I don't think that that's. I'll take joy. I'd like to. May I have motion? Motion to clear for life. I think. Exactly. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, Mr. Stambridge. You thank you, Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is Olivier? Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Do you then? Any further requests for which all of the referrals in this talk? With that, then we will move on to Chase. But. I'll tell you. I'll tell you what you're about to hear. What do you hear? Is that there here? Oh. I believe we have. We now have one 31 combo of out. Anthony. Okay. Good morning, everyone. Apologies for the confusion. I was on the pre here and check in, like, waiting around. Okay. Well, can you, Mr. Stambridge, reread the case into the record? Sure. That is case. This is for case B.O.A. 15920. What's the. Oh, the. With the address of 135. I would. Yes. Please mute the other. We will. We'll. Mr. Joyce, please mute yourself. Thank you. So. I'm very. Okay, Mr. Stambridge, sorry about that. Okay. I just just require an. I'll read it again. Also the brown water conservation case case B.O.A. 15920. What to with the address of 131. I'm also happy. Um, it's the applicant. Yeah, no representative was ready. They can explain to the boy. Yes, sir. Thank you very much for the introduction. My name is Anthony Proya. I'm the project manager for young blood builders. Who is the builder on the project? And the primary applicant. We were doing a full gut renovation of the building, including interior reconfiguration spaces with structural work. All new mechanical electrical and plumbing finishes and infrastructure, as well as an installation upgrade, new smoke, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and fire alarm system, as well as sprinkler and snow. Is Mr. Samanaly on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Christian Samanaly, Boston, Brown Water Trust. And we have both recharging letters from the applicant. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have motion? Motion moved, please. That's second. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Lovie? Yes. Mr. Pornado? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. There's a lot very much for your time. I'm sorry, no. But again, we'll return to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. We'll start off with case VOA 1577687, with the address of 477 LaGrain Street. If the applicant can't hear the representative from, would they explain to the board, please? Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Kyle Smith of Stterrell Law. This is address of 359 New Jersey Street in Boston's back bay. The proposal for the project is to add about 725 square feet of livable square footage in the existing rough basement area. There's no need to further dig down at all. It's coming just the mechanicals of storage. The proposals have a two-bed, one-bath, as you can see, with a kitchen area located to the front of bedrooms along the left-hand side of the building. With a bathroom to the rear, the only proposed change to the exterior building envelope is the addition of a rear stairwell to the back right of the structure and to the front left, in up-soning from a two-family to a three-family existing two to a three, does require the installation of a full sprinkler system, so there will be two full means of egress in two laterally different parts of the building, as well as sprinkler systems indicated with, as you can see there, the locations that they did sprinkler systems. So we believe there to be adequate head height, adequate lighting, adequate safety, means of egress and sprinklers. We are in a single family sub-district. There are two families to our immediate right and left, or about six parcels away from a very large apartment complex, and then arguably center street for greater density. But that is the proposals of existing off-street curb cut in parking. There is a two-car garage, or garage that fits two vehicles, and then you link the driveway to accommodate off-street parking. The intended use, if it is relevant, is to provide housing for the owners, who will be an occupant, his parents for the basement to help them age in place. So at the time of completion of construction, the project will be used entirely for family, owner occupant, parents, and the proposed basement dwelling unit, and then uncles on the second floor. Thank you. You mentioned adequate head height. Can you just note the ceiling height? Yes, on the plans in front of you, the proposed height is seven feet one inches, approximately. Okay, thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, SIGGI JOSMIT, the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This proponent completed the OMS community process. Our office hosted an obaters meeting on the 3rd of April, at which several obaters attended and raised concerns as to what was viewed as the poor current condition of the structure and issues related to possible overcrowding. Proponents additionally appeared at the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council zoning committee who voted to oppose this proposal with that we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. I know, Katie, you're looking to request one. Do it up. How where to start? So go ahead. Okay, very good. Can you hear us? I get some. Sorry, I didn't realize that I was next. Okay, you go ahead. Yeah, this is Peter Lowe. I live at 494 LaGrange Street, just down the street from the building. I'm in opposition to the proposal to change occupancy to three family with the basement unit for two main reasons. The first is the insufficient parking. And the second is lack of upkeep of the present structure. The parking at 477 LaGrange has been awful. Vehicles are often parked on the front lawn and too many vehicles already fill the driveway. The other day there was a vehicle that was parked across the sidewalk in the driveway, but across the sidewalk due to the overcrowding. The street in front of the house is typically full along the entire block. As had been mentioned, there actually is a new, not apartment, but condo building up the street. And that has actually added to congestion on the street with parking. Please note also that LaGrange Street has restrictive parking and snow emergencies. And so these vehicles would need to move to side streets in any of those situations. There is a two car garage on the property, but it is in disrepair and seems to be unused. But it still would not provide sufficient parking, especially with the need to coordinate the movement to five to eight vehicles in that limited driveway. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Smith, can you respond to that? I have a couple of other comments about the area which time I have. Sure. Can you let us know if the lighting properties are generally two families or three? I believe there are two families on either side. Please wrap up your testimony, Mr. Roosevelt. Yes, sure. I will do so. So the place appears to need painting. The French porch is bowing. Looks like it is not structurally sound. The garage is in disrepair. And the driveway is two strips of concrete that the cars wheels are supposed to go on. But it is deeply red and dirt between them. It looks like the occupants have even driven on the neighbor's side lawn. Trying to get in and out because the driveway is already so congested. As a parent of two sons in their mid to late 20s, I understand the desperate need for more housing in Boston. However, I think the neighborhood is better served at the property owner invested in upkeep of the current property before investing in a additional unit. The owner claimed to be unaware that his tenants were parking on the front lawn of the property at the prior meeting. And to me, that is evidence that he is not an active landlord, doesn't care about the upkeep and use of the property. And it really feels more like a plan to build a third condo. Third unit, burnt condos, and flipped for profit. I mean, this is an owner who lives at 27 go to street in a single family home. So really kind of skeptical of plans to move to 477 LeGrange. But those are, that's what I have to say. It's kind of a mess over there. Thank you. Any other reasons? Mr. Schwartz? Yes. So the current situation, it's unfortunate, but there is a problematic tenant on-site who does run a commercial business. So the parking is something that the owner is trying to work with and address. The intent, again, long terms for the owner to move into the property and live with family, which should have, then, that exclusive control over the property, reduced the number of vehicles. So a lot of the pain points of the community appear to be things of the past, which the owner is looking to rectify. The owner, as I understand it, sold his home, was living with family and waiting for this to be approved and construction complete so they can move in there to then owner occupy. So we are very much hoping in the future as a fully owner occupied structure, but a lot of the pain points of the community in parking, et cetera, will be rectified. The owner's own property for two years. They've already undertook to replace all the exterior siding, do new painting. So this is only moving towards the direction of a rehabbed, beautiful structure, which just takes time and money. And he's working on these things as that money is available and time is available. Any other questions from the board? I think just really quickly. I'm sorry. We're not going back and forth. Mr. Lowe, I just want to hear from board members at this time. Okay. Here are no other questions. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll make a motion for approval with the building properly. Is there a second? Second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Volansier? Yes. Mr. Langen? No. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Collins? I'm sorry. Mr. Collins? I don't know. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Ms. Canado? Yes. Chair also will know the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Yes. I'll motion to deny the vote, right? Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Volansier? Yes. Mr. Langen? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Ms. Canado? Yes. The Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Mr. Mendes and Mr. Volansier. Next, we have case BOA 1595840, with the address of 41 Ben Suros Street. If the applicant answers, the representative is present. Please explain to the board, please. Morning board. I am Sean Barr. I am the architect. I am the director of this project as well. Once it is approved, hopefully. We are seeking relief from a non-conforming, existing non-conforming side-yard setback that is less than the required ten-yard minimum. The building right now is a one and a half story kit-cod style house, and we are hoping to expand the existing floor to the entire footprint of the existing house so that we can create two more small bedrooms on the second floor so that we can accommodate their existing family and the neighborhood that they have grown up in. Every all the work will be contained within the existing footprint. The building height is going to go from 22 foot to approximately, to 25 foot 9, approximately. In general, there shouldn't be significant impact on the neighborhood. There is going to be the same family. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, public testimony? Thank you, Madam Chairman and members of the board. My name is Jeremy B. Bendery. I am the floor. I am the owner of the engagement specialist with the office of the Nicaridate Services. The applicant at 41 Mentor has completed the community process, which comes to phenomenal only. The board is leading counter on base 28 facilities. In the meeting, there were no statements of the board of opposition. Not any letters of the board opposition to be from the project at this time. I, the chairman of the office of the neighborhood services, would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Would God be able to motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stappridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Ms. Panado? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 147-464. With the address of 48 to the address of 48 Intermail Street. Thank you. This is a article eight or fair most of our project. But if the applicants and other representatives are available, then they can join. This is a four family member. Not article 80. Mr. Locasson? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark Locass, Locass last 75 of our LinkedIn Street in Boston. Further to Mr. Stappridge observations, it is not an article 80 project. It's only four units. The mayor's office of housing project, even though it is a vacant parcel of land that is now being proposed for a four unit building. But with that, let me proceed. The parcel is shown here on the left hand side of the site plan. Number 48 Intermail is a vacant parcel of land with a lot size of 4,236 square feet in a 3F, 4,000 sub district. The proposal is to construct a new three-storey or unit building with the fourth unit being a conditional use in this particular sub district. The project went through a significant community process and many changes were made to the proposed building as a result of that process, including the proposed garage at the ground level. We can go to the next couple of slides to show the floor plans. There are four parking spaces right here accessed on the side of the building through the driveway that is shared in common with number 52 Intermail next door, which is in common ownership with this property. The parking spaces for four units were a very strong desire of the community. These are closed in the building to just give it a much nicer appearance. The ground floor shown here on the left hand side of the floor plan is one half of a duplex unit, which is unit one, the second half of that unit is on the second level next slide. This level is the second half of unit one on the left, unit two on the right. These are all larger three-bedroom units, again, which was part of the request from the community to have larger family sized units. Each of the units is three-bedroom, two bath ranging from 1100 to over 1,300 square feet, so they're very nice sized units. The second and third level of the building to give additional outdoor space, usable open space for the units on those levels, and to give the building more of an appearance of a traditional triple-ducker, which is an architectural form that is common in this neighborhood. The side you'll get now is the level three floor plan split between units three and four, each of which are three bedrooms, two baths, units three and four on the top floor also have exclusive use to a roof deck as shown here on the next slide for some usable open space for those units. So all but unit two have a nice amount of usable open space in the form of decks or the front porches that we added during the review process. Eric Socerson is the architect on the call as well on that Eric out a few additional points about the other architectural influences that informed his design. Thank you, Mark. The only the only things I would add and you could spoke to the next page is that we work with the neighbors to try and develop something that can actually fit into the the neighborhood doesn't scale and materials. The three stories with the roof deck set far back from the from the front and as far from the size as possible to try and help the building really fit in but exists around it. And chair, I could just comment on the BPD a recommendation which generally recommends all of the relief sought but suggest that there be design review with an effort to reduce the floor plate. We'd like to sort of push back on that to the extent that again the the entire building with garage at the ground floor enclosed with the four parking spaces the larger three bedroom family sized units arranged nicely. Any reduction of the floor plate in light of the otherwise fairly minimal extent of the relief saw for each of the various is really disrupt the entire plan itself. Thank you for that. I will conclude our presentation. Thank you questions questions from the board. Yeah, I have one small question. Is it any more roof debt in the area? There are none Mr. Langham but again with the the roof deck issue was desire to create some usable open space for the upper floor units. Same as adding the front porches just to create some useful open space. There's certainly as a predominance of front porches and triple decor style front porches. So the roof decks again were a desire to create some usable open space for the upper floor units exclusive to each of those units. And this is intended to be condominium ownership so they would be owner occupied units. So there's always a delicate balance between you know those issues. I mean you said I know roof deck seems to be a place of body at night. I'm just concerned about the other neighbors and you know we're having a roof deck and people hanging out there late at night. I'm just an it's an issue that that comes up in every neighborhood in the city and there are countless tens of thousands of roof decks that are not problematic. And it's always that delicate balance of using decks as useful open space which the zoning code actually provides for and advocates for the creation of decks and porches to satisfy these open space requirement with the corresponding and we'll call it the knucklehead problem. Every so often there's somebody that has a roof deck or a porch and you know it disrespects their neighbors and the neighborhood itself. But we don't think that that's a reason to punish everybody when it comes to the creation of useful outdoor open space. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions or so can you speak to the rear yard set back and how proposing relates to your abiding properties and also it wouldn't remove all of those trees that are currently exist on the property. Eric, can you grab that one? Yeah, I think so the proposed rear yard has seven feet of space between itself, the building and the neighbors. The idea was to cover the parking so that it's not kind of in the rear yard. The front yard is just parking coming up the rear of the building which we felt the green space back there. It's good to have it as a screening of offering but it's going to be likely used with the decks on the upper levels being the primary outdoor space for this particular type of event. I'm not sure how it relates to your neighbors this setback. We are so sorry we're some people from the rear property line and we are three feet from the property line on one side and about some from the process all together. Yeah, I'm more interested in alignment and sort of how what you're proposing aligns with the current built environment. Are you going to have seven foot setbacks or are there is the. The surrounding buildings have more of a larger rear yard than our space and without the roof decks but we put the outdoor space on the level of the center to hide the parking behind the building. And I assume there would be really no green space as a result. There's a three foot proper on one side and there's seven foot proper on the rear. And what would happen in that seven foot buffer? That's all green space in the properties. No additional questions. Mr. Hampton, do you want to comment on the design review? Should we get there? Thank you Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boyd Jeff Hampton, VPDA. Should you get there? Obviously we want to have design review and as Mr. LeCas knows, you know, all our discussions can happen during the design review process. So these are just recommendations for our for our final vote. But if the board should get there, we'd have those discussions through design review. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The board, the board, the board, the new one with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board with some back information in the community process. I want to ask some of the board's video November 1st proponent presented to the intervail, normative neighborhood association November 2nd. After that, they made some changes and it might actually receive enough to infuse a letter from ISD. I recommend that they check back in with the civic association present again, but sure, they're heard. Through other process, there was concerns and opposition raised from residents who live on intervail, normative, the demonstrates. We're also members of the project, right, which is the neighborhood association. They express concerns regarding the size of the proposed building, taking up a good chunk of the plot, as well as concerns. That currently, that lot has been subdivided. It serves as parking for the next door, 52 intervail street. So they're concerned that those cars will be out on the street, leading to more competition for parking. Concerned were raised regarding the proposed roof decks with resident citing existing issues with several out and late night problem. Music from parties that occur in the neighborhood already, and they feel that roof decks contribute to this problem. And then, as I mentioned, just, you know, concerns about the size of the building and the potential lack of green space if it's broofed. Without a word, the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Mike. Sorry, I make you hand with me. Can you give me a test of money? Yes, sorry. This is my close-up from Project Right, 3208, Louha Avenue. There were several meetings with the developer. There has been some progress made, but we're really concerned about the roof decks. And if you need the roof decks to create open space, then I think there's a flaw with the problem with the proposal. There's a reason why there's not roof decks in the area. We already have enough significant issues with public safety, with allowances of late night music issues. And roof decks would be very difficult for people to answer. So, neighbors were very concerned about this. And this lot was subdivided from 52 interbale, which now impacts the two interbale, which they also call long. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Bruce Borisman with Councillor Morales office. We have heard from the Civic Association about concerns with the roof decks and with parking. We have also met with the developer that we are pleased to see that they have made it three unit residences. And we do also encourage green roofs, but we are concerned about the noise issues. So, this time our office will defer to the board's decision. Thank you. I have no additional notice. And I'm sorry, but it was this. Can you confirm its three units or four units? It's four units. And when note that the parcels were not subdivided, number 48, number 52 are and always have been separate parcels. So, there are in common ownership and as shown on the site plan, there is a proposed joint driveway running through down the middle of 48, 52 that serves as the driveway for the garage entrance to 48, the new building and to a rear parking area behind number 52, the existing building. There is no subdivision. There is a shared common driveway down the middle to create the access to the enclosed garage parking and the proposed new building and parking for the existing building in the rear yard of that building. But they are separate parcels and always happen. Okay. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, man, motion. I'm sure in the motion is approval with BPDDA, the same review, special attention to improving parking configuration. And you can change about the roof deck? Well, attention. If you want to add anybody who provides them about the roof deck, I will take it. I might consider a provider with no roof decks. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stabbridge. Mr. Stabbridge? You're on mute. Are bad, Chair. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langem? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Langem? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Sherivot? Yes. The motion carries. Thank you kindly. Next, we will move on to case B.O.A. 159-3053. The address of 156-1210 Pils Street. And at this point, could you give me for trying to rush the hearing of the wrong, but this is an article. So if the applicant's Andrew is there representing the splinter of Boyle Club? Yes. Hi, Mr. Stabbridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Mike Ross, Business Adress of one international place. I'm here with the architect, Eric Zacherson. This is, as Secretary mentioned, an article, a small-fronted review case. It's a proposal to bill a 27-unit home ownership mixed use building with 12 parking spaces and a 1200 square foot retail space at the corner. Madam Bash, you can just go down a couple of, there you go. That's a good one. This was filed under the old article 60, Madam Pan, neighborhood zoning district zoning. So this was a 3F-5,000 under the old zoning. It's a corner law sitting on two parcels for combined 8,160 square feet. The proposed project will incorporate the existing Mount Sinai Baptist Church building into the base of the project, which as you can see, both the existing church and what you'll see as the proposed all come out to the edge of the property line. This building will also replace an old billboard that was at the corner of this building. The existing conditions and extreme topography of the land, as well as the oddly shaped triangle lot, make this a project of crime candidate for zoning relief. I wanted to turn over to architect Eric Zacherson just to quickly run through the building. Eric. Thank you. I think the project sets the corner of Wellington and Greendale, where they intersect Forte Street. And so one of the things that you'll see, I think we've turned to the next slide, is that we work on a proposal with our next slide, please. We're going to kind of propose a with our landscape architect, our civil engineers, and the city to introduce some traffic calming measures that you'll see at the ground floor that kind of are the introduction of the way of the building. Next slide. In at the front of the site, let's keep going as the basement next slide. I think ground floor, you're going to see this new boss at the site. This is still not the first floor. Did you go back home? Eric. It's towards the end, I think. I think that landscape sector, you just made a walk through the building first, if you want. Okay, so going to the building, there's what is considered the basement on the along Wellington Street is the bottom side of this page. The top of the page, Greendale is at such a lower elevation that you're able to enter directly into the garage space. It was the lower volume on the lap. And then the retail is also at that intersection facing towards Greendale and Wellington Street. And it was critical, I think, in our neighborhood discussions or discussion with the BPA, but that retail space remains a retail space and be something that is kind of integral to the neighborhood. And we'll work well with the bars that are promised to show you in a minute. Next slide. Now, above this, kind of the first level, proper level, there is an entrance off of Wellington Street, which you see at the lower left here. And then the six residential units that rang around this. So they rang in size from 650 square foot, one beds to some larger two beds and even a three bed at the very lowest of the building. Next slide. One of the things that the BPA asked us to do when we think it's a really clever idea is we've introduced a light bulb to bring down not to light into the corridors. We see that kind of an acentral of the building there. So even though this is a renovation of a very large building, we're trying our best to bring in. Inset roof deck or in set decks and bring down natural light through the core of the building so that it doesn't feel like it is is axed out if it is, but again, the following the foot, the existing buildings and raising that up and you'll see that. And then next slide. I think this next slide. Similar level above that slide. And then on the roof, we have the common roof deck, which has elevator access and two stairs, but we push that this roof deck. Really as far into the middle of the building as we can. Probably because of the water protected from the surrounding traffic, we want to make it a fun, useful space. We have surrounded it at the top. You see with exterior green roof so that it doesn't get too close to the property to the edge of the roof, but also kind of serves as a natural offer between the rooftop and the cataclysm that are going to be around there between the neighborhood and the street. And then on the other, the only amount of the early on this floor is one common toilet just to make sure that if there are people that they have that as an accessible point. But this is a way of introducing a little bit of open space onto a building that had previously occupied the entire site. So you see in the elevations, how we're kind of setting a new two stories on top of the existing shaded Lou area, which is the existing church. That's that. And the rear elevations that we've been set the decks in order to create some green space, but obviously to respect the line. The intersection showing the large garage space at the base for a local residential bulk that of the roof deck on top next slide. A few renderings to show it in context and relationship to its building to its neighbors in his taller than a lot of the buildings around it on the right side because of the natural slope, because of the sort of nature. But it also sits very prominently at the intersection and we feel that the residential space or the retail space at the ground floor with the two stories of brick above that and then two stories of cement fire board pressed back and that a little bit create an interesting hierarchy as it addressed the street next time. So the existing context next slide. And then there's the flaws I was probably similar. So this would involve extending the nose of the existing concrete out is a place where one of the comments that we've repeatedly is that the cars come down here very quickly. And so there's a limit to what we can do. We can't impact the other sides of the street way we might want to because of jurisdictional issues, but we tend to in here and work courage to introduce something that brought in some street trees brought in a little closet area that hopefully will relate to the eventual retail tenant and will definitely cause forced cars to make. So it's a very very careful decisions and come to a slow and come to a slower approach to the intersection. Next slide. I think that might be the last one. And then a section cut through the plaza, the kind of help understand that sidewalk at well into the high and the sidewalk at retail. So the question the the brick building is a class from you. Any idea how many units that building is is a considered one or several. I think it was several buildings right. It's a mix, man, chair. There's the left of us too over. There's a. Someone's substantial apartment building several, someone units six units perhaps any more, but then there's some choosing threes mixed in the neighborhood as well. That's a real mix. What we connect on the left. We're down to about I could walk you through the zoning actually. Matt chair really quickly if you'd like me to. So under article 60, the use retail is forbidden to three F 5000 so that that's triggered MFR as well. I want you family. The FAR here was a pre existing FAR above the point eight that was allowed. We're now at 3.75. The height in this district calls for 35 at the highest point were at 57.10 inches. But all the way to the left. We're. We're a lot closer that 35 number, but you count to 57. We're five floors at the point where you see it right now. But again, the left were down to about three and a half. It's that topography that changes the building. Our side yard was pre existing was zero remain zero in what it's called for at 10 foot side yard. We're cited for additional lot area. And then we were saying for open space as well. We have the off street parking and loading. We have 12 parking spaces 27 units instead of 27 parking spaces. We have affordable units in this project for the 27 that equals 14.8 or rounded up almost 15%. I'll pause there. Matt chair. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board. This is now in the squares and streets. So from out of hand. Yes, Mr. No, this becomes a R2 very close to the S districts, but still in R2. Okay. No questions. Thank you. Question. What is the area in the form of four? Let's take the units. It's not you might ask. So I had it here. Open. All right. So we have a we have a two bedroom at 80%. We have a four sale units. So that would be $258,500. We have a one bedroom at 80%. That's $219,500. We have a three bedroom at 100%. That's $378,000. And we have a one bedroom at 100%. That's $287,400. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that may have public testimony. Madam chair members of the board, Connor, even with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time of the mayor is object to further the judgment board. Some bad information in the community process. This went through a BPD led community process involving a public meeting that occurred last August. During that meeting, there was one resident that concerns about height. But most residents were looking forward to something new coming into this place, citing the kind of blood and conditions of the existing structure. They were a number of questions the proponent about, you know, affordability costs the fondles if they would be deep restrictions. Which I was able to respond to. They went on to meet with the Wellington Hill neighborhood association, which after working on an agreement, voted to support this proposal. Understand they were in contact with other civics and stakeholders as well. Without the first report at this time. Thank you. Any other left or official offices? Okay. Hearing none, I see no additional raise hands. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, motion. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Is that right? Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lionel. Mr. Langham. Oh, yes. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Levy. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case BLA 159 0502 with the address of any burning street. The applicant and all the representatives present. Please expect. On the case of both. Members of the board. Luis Santana, the subject engineer, representing the other of this property. We are proposing a nine unit building over five stories. Essentially replacing an existing building. That contains three large units with the total of nine bathrooms. The net gain in terms of local bathrooms will be three. We have four one bathrooms, three studios, one to bedrooms and one three bedrooms. The last two floors is a two-plex. Those over the larger units would be contained. The fourth and fifth floor contains units with two or three bedrooms respectively. The other floors are studios and one at the end. We are essentially shrinking the existing footprint of the building to allow for openings on either side yard. This is a fine storage building with a height to the top of the roof, about 45 feet. The existing building to the top of the head house is about 42 feet. The reason why I wanted to emphasize the height was one of the questions. The borders meeting. The site is slums from the avenue to three-month street. This is substantial change in the poverty of about 18 feet. In addition, there are multiple dwelling units with the vicinity. Across the street we have a 24 unit building. All of our buildings are elevated with a basement. There are about five feet above the finish grade. Although a significant height at five-story, it blends with the roof line of the existing building for the most part due to the drastic topography on the site. The net gain in height, exploring the head house, will be about three or four feet from the existing height of the existing courtyard and head house. The units are a small for the most part or the final storage feet with the exception of the two larger units which are up over a thousand square feet per unit. The building will be fully accessible. We will propose an elevator. Multi-common units will be accessible. Some of those units will be adapted when required for the access code. There are, obviously, the views on it are multiple zone environments. At the end, although we said three of zone environments, the building is surrounded by multiple zone environments and mixed commercial residential uses. Also, we are in less than a quarter mile of public transportation. It looks very close to the station, and both mine and the tribal district. The building would need to provide it also the amount of formal units that are stipulated, usually early development policy, by the MPDA. With that, I conclude my presentation. If you have, the board has any questions. Mr. Santana, there are a couple of feedback from the PPA that includes questions about ADA accessibility and big windows. Do you like to elaborate and talk about those? Yes, welcome chair. We are proposing an elevator, and there is a best view that includes the main Toronto stair and the elevator probably. The building will be fully accessible for the common areas. The units will be built as adaptable for access. The existing building that we will be replacing has a bay windows. We will basically duplicate that. We will be in a little bit larger, but then we will be within the allowable projection of the public side of the district. Can you clarify, maybe I should have Mr. Hampton weigh in, but they talked about access within duplex units and how someone would access the floors within the unit. The other documents would be on the occupied and the elevator would be reduced all the storage. The elevator reaches the storage, but the units are duplexes. How does one get from the first floor to the second floor in their unit? The provision of the floor is 21 cmr. This would be the sign of good walled building units. Therefore, they don't have to be fully accessible because there are no group of two. The other thing is that they would be built as adaptable, meaning if someone with the parallel stability, within those units can be easily converted into accessible. How would they do that? We can have the elevator reaches floor 1, 2, 3 and 4. If you need to be that can be changed to an adaptable portion converted to different units. Can you speak to what Chair asked about the pay windows? Again, the existing open and high as a pay windows. The project about 2 plus feet into the public sidewalk. The one that we are proposing are projected 3 feet in the second floor and above. And that projection again is within the limitation of the basic or the point of 3 feet maximum. And maybe we should have the B2DA weigh in on that. Mr. Hampton, are you available? Thank you Madam Chair and members of the B2DA. In terms of the pay windows, we see a high over the right of way of a feet when the 10 feet is the minimum. And in terms of the accessibility, this really came from the city's disabilities commission that raised big concerns about the duplex and the accessibility of it. I understand that units can be adapted, but this is something that the disabilities commission raised the flag while we're going these plans. So that's why we recommended a vote of denial without prejudice so that these plans can be retweeted and can be submitted. So that quote, the disabilities commission and the BPA can review them again. Mr. Hampton, is there an alternative of the BPA assisting the applicant to come to compliance with the ADA issue? I think they should get in touch with the disability commission soon that they're the ones who are raising the right flags on this one. Yes. Thank you. So I believe it, obviously I think it's the board on their decision on denial without prejudice to for all what have you. I think that disability commission should be a forefront in terms of the accessibility issues. If that may be what I would like to respond. Let me see if there are any other questions from the board and then we can turn it back to you, Mr. Santano. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Santana during your presentation, I think you mentioned that the project will comply with any requirements to provide affordable housing units. And just to remember saying any descriptions about affordability here. So could you please just clarify that that is about your project providing any affordable housing units? Yes, thank you, Mr. Valencia. We will provide the percentage of units as required on the inclusion of the development policy. Is there a specified on the plans for this mandatory, basically the normal of units that we have? And that percentage which I believe is 1.35, we're not mistaken, will we comply with absolutely? Your project has nine units, right? Yes. Okay, maybe I would like to ask Mr. Hampton from the BBA. I think the threshold for BBA, I think the unit is 13, right? Yes. So 10 units, 13%? So 9 will not be required providing affordable units? No. So Mr. Santano, is that something that the project is proposing, I would like to hear more information about that? Well, I'm more understanding was that seven units in more were required to provide the affordability component. But if I am mistaken, then discuss the option that we'd be ordered to see if we would be willing to pay some of the normal of units for use, or the 10 if we would be willing to provide one unit as affordable. Absolutely open to discussion with him. So now I'm chair of the seven units that kicks in and I'm told. I'm just the inclusionary zoning policy, inclusionary zoning. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Santano, can we circle back to the access questions? As you understand, but I'm chair, the, you know, based on my initial analysis for the accessibility component, we took that into consideration what the sign in the building. The, my preliminary findings is that this will be a design, they have to be built as group one, because we are over three units. That means, and I think that this is relatively accurate. And that means that all the common areas for these units, they have to be accessible and expensive. And that is our goal, in terms of the units themselves, the language is that the battle, the kitchens and bedrooms on the group one, dwelling units. And I believe that is chapter nine of the five, twenty one, C1A, states that they have to be adaptable. Adaptable means that they could be potentially converted into handicap accessible units. So I don't think that the two clicks necessarily will, it is a, more of a challenge in order to accomplish that with respect to the other units with our flats, but that doesn't mean that it's impossible. And because it's only requires adaptability, not fully accessible units, I think that we are in compliance with five very well. And I will be more than glad to explore that in depth before and with the DPP, the disability discrimination before this project was formed. Thank you. Any other questions? Well, why are the main windows at the feet above the right away when they requirement is ten feet? The, the Department of Public Works, projections of the public way, my understanding is that eight feet above the public sidewalk is high. From signage, projecting signs and things like that. If you have mistaken, who will be glad to eliminate those windows at the first, for the second floor, or comply with the ten foot high limitage? Just please understand that these are not fully developed construction documents and adjustments are all necessary. But I could develop my understanding based on my experience with DPP, is that that type of projection was within eight feet. And again, I could be wrong and I apologize if that's the case. I would not argue that. I will revisit that and we can always eliminate those very windows at the second floor. Thank you. What's up, Madam Chair? Madam Chair, members of the board, Cindy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the OMS community process. Our office posted in a butter's meeting on the 3rd of January of this year. For seven, a butter's spoken support. One butter's spoken opposition on the basis of what they viewed as excessive height. This proponent has also presented to the community alliance of Mission Hill and CAMH is in non-opposition to the proposal. With that, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Shaiyan. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. I would like to read this into the testimony to statement from Councillor Sharon Durkin, City Councilor District 8, Deer Chair Dong and members of the board. As the District 8 City Councilor representing Mission Hill, I am writing in support of the proposal to demolish the existing three-story building and erect a new five-story building with nine units. The project is being proposed by a respected business owner and Mission Hill. We have full faith that this will be a wonderful addition that will enhance the street and make needed repairs to much needed living units in Mission Hill. In addition, the proposal has received the support of the community alliance of Mission Hill. I ask the board to approve this proposal. Thank you. Good morning, Madam of the Chair, members of the board. I am Anna Calderon from Councillor Allar, St. Rizantana. The Councillor would like to go and drink or support. He would also like to request District 8 City Councilor position on this matter. Thank you. I will try to have no additional distance. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. No, I am sorry. This is number two. To the government, will these units be mentored or homo-match? No, as you know, it will be mentored. One of the large units would be on the rock bottom. Thank you. Okay. Without me, I have a motion. I will have motion with some provisos. Happy for some additions. I make a motion for approval with some provisos that the applicant worked with the BPDA to bring the Board to the board. The B Windows in compliance with the proper height from the sidewalk and that there be included one IDP unit that they work out with the BPDA on. And that the plans be reviewed by the Boston Disabilities Commission as part of the process. Is there a motion for approval? Yes. Is there a motion for approval? Yes. Is there a motion for approval? Yes. Is there a motion for approval? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Langan. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Alivey. Yes. Mr. Van der Schu. Next, we have case B.O.A. 159-0133 with the address of one exoner plaza. The applicant and the representative of the president. Please respond to the board. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm the board of the board. David Weiner, Anderson and Krieger, 50 Mouk Street. I'm here on behalf of Berkeley College of Music. My clients, Caitlin Pasifaro and Erin McCabe from Berkeley College of Music. I believe they're winged in as presenters. And I think they're going to take the lead on the presentation. That's okay with the board. Of course. Thank you, David. Good morning, members of the board. I'm here on my service, Chief of Staff and Vice President of the Community Government Relations at Berkeley College of Music. I'm, as mentioned, joined here with my colleague, Erin McCabe, Vice President of Facilities. A little bit about Berkeley, looking in the back day in the Fenway neighborhoods of the city. Berkeley is the premier institute of music and performing arts with locations in Valencia, Spain, Abu Dhabi, New York City. And of course, our home base being the great city of Boston. We educate approximately about 50, 100 undergraduate and graduate students. We're here before you today to discuss our conditional use permit application for the use of one exeter. Plaza, also known as 699, Boilston Street. Berkeley's intended classroom and dance studio space are college or university educational use, which requires the conditional use permit, as this is a general business district in the back bay. Berkeley has filed, excuse me, has signed a 15 year lease with two five year options for approximately 9,300 square feet of space at 699, Boilston. 8,300 of which is on the lower level and about 1,000 is on the ground floor street level. This space was previously used as the TV 12 gym space, which closed back in May of 2023. And has been, and the space has been vacant since then. We are hoping that we can have the space operational for the upcoming fall 2024 semester or our dance program. We do intend to operate the space seven days a week. However, given the high density of the area, we think that this will be minimal impact on the neighbors. We have had and a butters meeting through neighborhood services and also had a subcommittee meeting of the neighborhood association of the back bay and have not heard any concerns from a butters. I will now turn it over to my colleague Aaron just to speak to some of the specifics of the use of the space. Thank you, Caitlin. So we can just go to the next slide. As you can see, this is a class A office building on Boilston street roughly around 210,000 square feet. The space will be used to meet the demand for our dance program. We're going to be adding three dance studios in the lower level. And the first floor space will be open as a grab and go cafe for our students and to the public with hours of 7.30 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. As Caitlin mentioned, we're anticipating opening in the fall to meet that demand. And the space again will have commercial and contemporary dance. Next slide please. Thank you very much. So this gives you an idea of what the first floor will look like. It's going to be very similar to the previous use as TB 12. In fact, we're going to use the same footprint of the layout. Just modify the counter for grab and go pace. And our partners with air market food services will be operating this space. And this space provides the access to the lower level for our students. There'll be a security guard position within the space at the lower level. But it works cited and the tenants in the building are excited for this additional food offering on the first floor. We'll have a video wall installed similar to TB 12 on the back wall to showcase Berkeley student performances. And the community is excited about this very high end space for our presence. Next slide please. So again, this is a fully accessible building. There's elevators available for students who may need to access the dance studios, which is great. Our partners at AEW Capital, the landlords are very accommodating in that way. But the lower level dance space as you see, we have an existing dance studio and then AEW is building out two additional studios for Berkeley. We have the access of some high end and new locker rooms at TB 12 built out and the rest of the space is mechanical. Occupancy for the dance studios is roughly around 22 people. So the maximum and the lower level would be 66 people at any time. Again, as Caitlin mentioned, the space will be available for students who want to come and practice on the weekends. And in the evening hours, we certainly don't anticipate that level of maximum occupancy during those off hours. Next slide. That's it, right? So that sort of concludes the scope of our project at one Exeter. And if anybody has any questions. Thank you. No questions here. Any other questions from the board? Here in Nutt, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Stiggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This performance completed the ONS community process. Our office posted and putters meeting on May 15th at which no concerns were raised. The Neighborhood Association of Back Bay Zoning and Building Use subcommittee has issued a letter of non-opposition for this proposal. At this point, our office depers to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I see no raised hand at the moment. Does that may have a motion? I'll move to the move. I'm second. It's like second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good luck. Next, we have case B-O-A 159-689-3. Put the address of 67-69 Church Street. It's the applicant's hand and will represent their spline program. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCas, LeCas lost 75 Arlington Street in Boston. 24th, the project proponents consisting of Tom Callis and Jazz Bogil are the owners of this property. And the architect, a record is the empty peer marini. Just to give you a brief refresher, Madam Chair, members of the board. This board previously heard a case involving this building in 2019, at which time this building had long historically been at the corner of church and Shaman Street, not Shaman Ave, in Bay Village, just into Bay Village from Stewart Street. This building had long been a restaurant and a bar on the bar nightclub on the upper floors. In 2019, this board granted relief for the conversion of this building to five residential units on the upper floors and the ground floor and lower level to be a conditionally used permit for a restaurant use core and shell only at the time. The project has been substantially completed. The historic preservation has been completed. It was approved by the Bay Village Historic District Commission, subsequent to this board's approval in 2019. The addition to the building has been built. The building has been fully historically restored and has won awards for the work done in the building. There are five units on upper floors and the ground floor, in basement level, which was slated to be a restaurant, has drawn no interest from any restaurant tour. It used to be the case that there were a lot of restaurant and bar uses at street level in Bay Village, but basically that is no longer the case. There are no such uses and a lot of the ground floor uses in Bay Village that used to be bars, restaurants and or for the film industry have been converted to residential use. I was a before you today, sort of a follow up to the 2019 case and is seeking permission to change the occupancy of the previously approved restaurant space on the street level and in the lower level to a six residential unit, which would make the building solely six residential units, which again is largely very consistent with the rest of the configuration of church fee and shaman fee. And shaman fee in Bay Village and throughout the rest of Bay Village. The proposal is to take shown here on the screen the existing ground floor space and create a residential unit. There is an interesting feature shown here on the left hand side of the screen, which is their multiple entries for this unit. So the architect and the plans are showing a sort of live work home office space on the lower left hand corner in addition to the bedrooms and other living space, which would permit like a home office use or therapist, a lawyer and accountant because there's separate entrance separate from the residential component of the building. And again, the live work space style component is a feature that predominates in some of these street level living work spaces throughout Bay Village as they have been converted from something else in the film industry or restaurant uses like this one on lower level. Next slide, please. Sorry. Maybe it was the previous one. Yes, so this is the basement level. Sorry, back to the basement level. That would be an extension of the living space for the ground floor unit. The space is already existing. So although there's a violation for excessive FAR in terms of a lawyer ratio, nothing about the building is changing. The space is already there. The spaces are existing. The space actually was already approved for excessive FAR in the 2019 decision as it related to the restaurant use shown here as again multi purpose space in the lower level on half the basement. The other half of the basement remains as storage and other functions with existing five units on the upper floors of the building. And if you could go ahead to the elevations, you'll see that on the lowest level at the bottom there, there are windows and it's sort of a full walk out condition on the lower level into what is the small alleyway courtyard area behind this building and the adjacent building. So there is not the sensation of being below grade when you're in that lower level space because of those windows on the back of the building that face that courtyard area. There was a common BPD recommendation about this property being in the coastal flood resilience overlay district with an indication that it should be 21 feet above the base flat elevation, but that was not noted on the plans. Our project manager was able to look at the original submissions and has determined that the elevation at street level, which is the existing space for residential is 18.92 feet. So just slightly below the recommended elevation, but again, this is existing space consistent with the entirety of Bay Village, which itself the entire neighborhood was elevated and is built on peers, given the ground water levels in the neighborhood. And there's nothing about this building that is different from the street level condition of virtually every other building on the block and in the context of the neighborhood. With that, the other two zoning relief sought our conditional use permits, one being the, adding the extra unit in the building requires a further conditional use permit in the raw sub district from five to six. And then ISD cited a conditional use permit for nonconforming use change, which I'm not trying to understand since the residential use itself is a conforming use, it's just a number of units that is changing from five to six. So it's sort of a duplicate of conditional use permit. And again, the excessive FAR had been improved as space for the restaurant. And I think because now for the extension of living space for that 60 in it, with that, I will continue the presentation. Thank you. Hello questions from the board. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. In terms of the living space and the base, what it not be, what type of what we use for the very most kitchen that there's no bedroom shown in the basement. It's just sort of large open multi purpose space for additional home office usage for the residents of this unit. These are condominiums, so their ownership in the event that the live workspace at street level were to be an office. It could be for the storage for office space. But again, it's not showing as bedroom space. There are ample bedrooms on the ground floor and the living areas configured as such. It's just attempt to utilize the basement space for a functional purpose with that walk out condition in the rear for just the extended living area for the restaurant space being converted to residential space. Thank you. May I have a quick testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This proposal had in the butter's meeting on April 29th of this year. One community member attended. They had no opposition to the project. This project was also presented to the Bay Village neighborhood association and they provided a letter of non opposition. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood service would like to defer to the decision of the board. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm very sorry to have the board. This is Laura. It's up the down of our console place office at this time. Consolency. Councilor McLean would like to go on record and support based on the good community process and feedback from neighbors, including the Bay Village neighborhood association who also indicated they are not opposed to the project. Consolency respectfully requests that the proponent continue to work closely with that community on any quality of life issues that may arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to interrupt. There was one more public comment. I'm not saying I'm not saying a way of saying that you are. I'm in the panel. Thank you. All colleges. That was very different. Okay, ma'am. Please continue your motion, Mr. Valencia. Thank you. I'm working with the right and most of the right. Is there a second? Madam Chair, this is a historic district. So this would be subject to landmarks, correct me from wrong mark? Yes, it's a Bay Village historic district commission property, so it would not be subject to BPD design review. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Mr. Valencia, I don't think we need to put design review on this one. Okay, so with that, I think I'm more enough of the one. I mean, the second. Mr. Semberg. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Langham. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Vanado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you kindly. That is. And since we are past the 11th round, please give me our. We will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals of the throws from the 11th round. The number of the throws from 96 Maureen Street. That would be case, V.O.A. 153 5566. The address of 94 96 Maureen Street. Do you go ahead and explain? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Semberg. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy. This address of 168 H Street, First Force, self-boston. We are just seeking a short deferral to allow a re-advertisement. We provided a revised set of drawings, which triggered an additional violation. That should have been factored into the original refusal letter of, if some reason was inadvertently advertised as such. So we're just seeking a short deferral to allow for a re-advertisement. Madam Chair, we have a date of July 30th. Mr. Spitz. Perfect. Okay, with that, ma'am, motion. I make a motion to defer to July 30th. Seconds. Thank you, Mr. Semberg. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Oliwak. Yes. Ma'am. Ms. Panado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Fifth morning, members of the board, Madam Chairman. This is a menlo dipina of M.J.A. The property address is 42 in the market square. We're looking to defer to next month's hearing. We're still waiting on the survey to complete the survey for the park. So we have not had that ready. We don't have that ready yet. So we want to just go to the next month. So that's at 1130. So when we call for those, 1130 deferrals, you can raise it at that time. We'll just say. Yeah. Any other 11AMs? Yes, David Gillins, the property owner of 250 Pond Street. I'd like to defer to the next meetings in a month. I can have all the updated information in your office probably in about a week or two. I can also defer to September if you think that that's better. Samantha. What's reading to the record, Madam Chair? Okay. In this case, there are three complete cases. Case BOA, 1466516. The address of 250 Pond Street. The one that we have case BOA, 160, 5958. The address of 250 R on three. And one of those two we have case BOA, 1466520, and the address of 250 R on three. Would you go ahead and further explain for us? Yes. So the proposal is to tear down existing two car garage and replace it in the same footprint with a, I guess, a single family residence. We're not subdividing land. I was originally filed under the city's ADU program, but I was told it was more applicable to file as a construction single family unit. It'll have a garage facing in the building as well to one bedroom unit. Madam Chair, we have apologies. We have dates through July, August, and September. It's up to the applicant on how file they would like the plan to be pushed out on. Why don't we make it for September? There was some confusion with regard to the city liaison filing my information. I just want to make sure that your file is complete when we meet next. We could do September 10th, Madam Chair. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to September 10th. About a second. I can't. Mr. Stemberidge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Olivia? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thanks very much. If there are no further requests for the calls of girls in the 11 a.m. We will return to 935 and we will move on to case in your way. 133. 3288. The address of 287 to 295. Cannell was three. I think the address of 287 to 295. It's the app to check. And the representative is present. If they're explained to the board closely. I think someone in the chat needs to be promoted. I'm. You know. Can you please see me? Okay. Christine. Go ahead. I'm. Can you hear me? You can hear me. Hi, everyone. And Christina K.B. I am the owner of 287 Hanover Street. Good morning. Madam Terromen, board and others who are on this call. This is not the presentation I sent in. I actually had a PowerPoint that was sent through. I think it's a good question. Is there more than one presentation on that of ambassador? If you have knowledge by Stephanie. I'm happy to speak to this as is that the other provides additional color and additional detail. Maybe you can start and hopefully find it. Yeah. Thanks. So the. What we have at hand is actually the replacement of a previous nonconforming with back the architect of record is the general contractor for this project. Like I said, I am the owner of 287 Hanover Street unit 5. 5. I bought this unit in 2020 during COVID. At the time the unit was advertised as having a roof deck. I was told it was in progress. But construction had paused due to ongoing COVID work. The roof had to have been re-reverized. So not only mine, but all other decks that exist. There are five. We're removed and then the contractor at that time hadn't provided or pulled the right permits to grandfather and the existing deck. So as you can see here, this is a view of the deck that I am currently being taxed on and should exist in excellent condition. It does not. If we can go to the next slide. There's my presentation. That's great. Thank you so much. So there we are. The zoning violation is again that dimensional rear stuff. I am up the back of my building. I don't know if the other slides have loaded. Perfect. So if we can stop here, the ask is the new deck. So the new deck is really a replacement again for that deck that previously existed. The area of insufficient rear stuff back is marked in that red outline that is 12 feet along the back of the entirety of my building that is 287295 handover street. The deck itself is not the issue. It is the walkway. And so the walkway itself would be utilizing curves which already exist. So that does widen the walkway. So it won't be as narrow and as elevated as it was levels before with the deck, which is on a platform. We can go to the next slide. Again, I just walked through this. This was a previous deck. As you can see in the photos here, the access does very much exist. So we're just working to replace the deck that should be there. And if we can go down the next slide, please. I have just a slide here for questions or concerns. This is the view from my deck. But I did want to jump to the appendix if we could just to show you. And give you some perspective on the older flat plan. As you can see, I am one of the index. All of them exist except for mine at this point in time if we can scroll down. Again, I just wanted to give a queer picture and depiction of the property and also the adjacent property. As you can see, the curve does exist, the roof has exists, and also the neighboring property would not be in a period of time. As there is just a good hatch there, as in. And then below this are just some additional the listing details followed by the 2022 assessment. Showing that I am being text on a building of extra feature of an excellent condition roof deck. And as you can see, it does not exist. So again, the ask overall is to move forward with the replacement of that previous roof deck. The walk away again is what lies within the non-performing space. And at this time, I continue over the questions and comments. First, thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I public just the morning? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, I am a former member of the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The Senator Mayor's office is deferred to the judgment board. Orange, Helen, and butter is meeting on July 21st, 2022. The applicant that went on to meet with New Rock and New Knife, they were both in support of my understanding. With that, I will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Okay. Would that be a heavy motion? I will make a motion to approve with the BTA design review, with the attention to the setbacks from the roof's edge. If there is second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Oli. Yes. Ms. Paredo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much, Ellen. Thank you. With that, we will go to the giving schedule for 11 a.m. We will defer on the first number. It goes well. And with that, we will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. We will go to case B.O.A. Thank you. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Sure that will work. Yeah I'm going to try these. And we just have two renderings here for you. The next slides. Just to show you the. I will sit there. It sits upon a little, little slope, as well. So it will sit. A little bit above. And we'll sit. A little bit above. And we'll sit. A little bit above. What you see there. That's a little. A little. A little. Computer-ish. But it has a little hump to the, to the land. So it sits up just a little bit higher. violations. We were cited for four units in the two F district. The FAR, we are at a point seven three and a point four district. This district requires neighborhood design overlay, which we'll comport with. And then the building height, we are compliant with height, but because it's a three story, it's in a two and a half story district, we were cited for that. I'll pause there a matter of share. It's either in questions. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Ross, this project is located about two or three blocks from the red line. And I'm going to interview where any considerations are reducing the parking and providing more open space in the rear, because what I see here is that the parking is co-ing the entire open space in the back. Thank you, Mr. Valencia. We might have had a little bit more green space during the earlier versions. However, I mentioned that we pulled the building back all the way to 25 feet. The neighbors really wanted to see that continuity in the front yards where this section of this sub district has that real bar setback front yard. So even though it was beyond what was required by the zoning to work out where we were on the block, we pushed it back. When we pushed it back, it did make the back a little tighter that you've picked up on, of course. We will have some landscaping. We identify that in the plan. You know, wrote a dendron, dogwoods, honey locusts, different different plantings and a different plant agenda or plan, if you will, that we provide in this. And that planting schedule runs all the way along as a buffer, of course, where the cars are, but it continues along that side yard on the left with some pretty substantial plantings. And then you have that front yard. Your biggest open space at this point in this project really would be that front yard area, which is that 25 yard setback. We're talking about that. Other questions from the board? Here in Nantin, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored, and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this time the Mayor is obviously deferred to the judgment of this board. ONS held a boatage meeting for this proposal, where I don't have no sense of any extensive opposition. The applicant then went out and spoke to the St. Mark Civic Association in April, where they presented revised plans. The Civic Association voted to support this proposal, with that deferred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Raymus from Council of Fitzgerald's Office, after going back and spoil the proposal. I see a lace hand by Jordan. Are you going to give testimony? I am, thank you. Can you say to me, and Adkinson, the one that's not being to support opposition? Sure, my name is Jordan Longiver. My address is department street and doorchester, and I am here in support of this project. I just wanted to thank the developers and the team. They worked extensively with the neighborhood and with the Civic Association, and we really appreciate that. I also just wanted to take note of the board members question, because I too, in general, have concerns about Reenspace with new developments, but with this project already having multi-carriage behind the existing structure, we're not losing Reenspace in the back, because it's already not a full yard. And again, I just want to thank the development team for really making something that goes well with the existing homes here and for working so well with us. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional words to hand. Any other questions from the board? We have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve with the PDD design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is there a way? Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case VOA 158, 3162, with the address of 30 West Nell Street. It's the applicant and what they represent this present. Would they please the point of the board? Let the applicant needs to be promoted. All right. And I go. You just send every question over. Thank you. I have to unmute yourself and people come up and listen. Yes. Yes. Sorry. Are you all set? No, we can hear you. All right. Yes. We had planned for the VO and founder of the Peace Institute of Clementina to be able to present this first couple of slides. If she could be elevated to panelists, that would be appreciated. I'm sorry. What's the name? Clementina. Chaplain Clementina, Sherry. All right. Yep. All right. I just said this is a question. Thank you. And continue to start to unmute yourself when you become a panelist. Thank you. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. My name is Chaplain Clementina Sherry. And I'm the president and CEO of the Lewis Day Brown Peace Institute. It is such a pleasure to be here with you this morning. I just want to share just a brief background why I started the Lewis Day Brown Peace Institute. It was actually 31 years ago. My 15-year-old son, Lewis Brown, was headed to a Christmas party for the teens against game violence. And 15 minutes from his home, he got caught in a gunfire of a Bible gang right on Geneva air going into the train station. That was the time at that time. If you guys were in Boston, you understood the young go in violence of young and black boys in our community and there were really no resources to us as families whose loved ones were murdered. It was then when the State of Boston on the roommate Mayor Manino would be referring families to us after the murder of a loved one in the State of Boston so that we can provide support to them. Since then we have grown our mission is to serve as the center of human teaching and learning for families and communities impacted by murdered trauma, grief and loss. We have a huge vision to create a sustainable environment where families can live in peace and where all of people are valued. We believe that families impacted by murder deserve to be treated with dignity and compassion regardless of the circumstances. A model is really centered in the CDC Center for Disease Control and Prevention, now as community violence intervention. It has more of that in order to address the issue of violence intervention was happening at multiple levels. For us, the heart of our work with families began impacted by murder and families whose loved ones are imprisoned for murder. Within our community we're losing at both acts. Our work is guided by seven core principles, love, unity, faith, or courage justice and forgiveness. But I want to share with you is the reason we really were looking to build a center just starting with the late Mayor Manino, back in 1996. Really looking as a way of we fit into the infrastructure and the framework of the City of Boston. Addressing the issue of prevention, intervention, my healing is central to the work. We've also worked with Mayor Mark Mardi Gras, again, in making sure that the center was a vision that would come to fruition. And then under Mayor Michelle Rue, we were designated the developers of 30 West Coast Street. Why 30 West Coast Street? That's my backyard. I lived on the West Sea Brown Way, which was first dogman street for almost over 40 years. And that is what the City has designated and considered as one of the most violent neighborhood in the City. So why not create a center where we can be a model for other cities and state and addressing not only the issue of violence yet creating a place where healing can happen. This will also serve as a model for a plastic country. We're in just June 6th. We partner again with the City of Boston, I'm Zaghiablo, and this is a line with the City of Boston. Vision of Star been by the city. It's where we hosted nine cities, delegation of representative of law enforcement, to really come, to understand and to see how the piece is to do and how the City of Boston are partnering to create a space where essential to community and where healing can begin to happen. So for me, I am excited to be a part of this process. I get meeting with our counselors, especially Council Campbell, who is now a Attorney General's Office. So I'm excited and I'm speechless. So I really realize that after 30 years, this is going to be a possibility in this city. And I'm going to leave it there so that the experts talk about everything that you guys need to know, but I felt it was important. And I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I know my neighbors. I'm a part of the United Nations Association, a member of this community, and I'm just excited and honored to really be at this stage of the of the game. So thank you. Thank you. I'll turn it back over to IZ to side myself. Thank you, Valentina, and good morning, and thank you, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. I'm happy to take a moment now to walk me through first the process that we've been through, with this project and then following up that with the design itself. So just kind of highlighting here that over the last five years, we've been working with the Peace Institute for 14 years bringing a new space to life for them. And over the last five years, the opportunity to be able to be on this site has come into play, starting with learning about baking properties from Council Campbell's office, and working through a number of formal and informal community engagement processes, as Clementine mentioned, as a member of her community and a member of the United Neighborhood Association, working with them and with other community groups to kind of bring the socialized the idea of this project in this community, and at the same time working through various city processes, including the disposition process that was set by the BPDI and MOH, as well as MOH and the BPDAs design review process. And then finally, a formal community meeting organized by D&D just this month. So if you don't mind going to the next slide, I'm happy to walk through the design a bit. Just to contextualize you as Clementine mentioned, you know, this neighborhood is really what the city has identified as one of the worst impacted neighborhoods by gun violence. And so it's really important for Peace Institute to be able to be in the heart of this community and be able to be where they can do the good work and be able to be there for the community. And it's also important that it kind of sits strategically positioned in a place that's accessible for community members and for the people that will be seeking services here. Next. I'm bringing you down to the block parcels scale. We wanted to kind of begin to highlight the understanding that the form of this building and the kind of shape that it's taken is really informed by the condition of these two parcels that kind of create this L shape in this slightly and usually shaped and scaled block. And as you'll kind of see as we go through the design, it really is kind of trying to respond to that, responding to mature trees that have been on the site for quite a long time and the ability to preserve as many of those as possible as well. And the need for access to the site next. Thank you. So what you see here is an accident metric drawing and then a plan kind of view where we're showing that this building is kind of positioned in the heart of the block, set back from the street to allow us for access, it's also too alive for this very important idea, this core to the piece institutes process of working, of this kind of healing and this sort of space that a pathway that kind of creates a process for kind of decompression as you approach the building and are able to kind of enter in a space for healing meditation and for teaching and learning. And then the other component of it that's really key in this side plan is that the idea that the mature trees that are on the site already can be preserved as part of a healing garden that has a direct interaction with the spaces on the ground floor that will be kind of the most accessible and most used by people who are seeking services in this space. So the community rooms and the spaces for teaching in particular. Next, please. And I also just wanted to highlight this, I'll just call it the strung, it's a little bit old, it shows more parking than we're proposing, but that we really see this as an opportunity to create a landmark building for sustainability in this neighborhood. We'll be doing everything possible to seek the lowest carbon emissions possible in that zero with this building to really be able to kind of ensure that the building also has a low operating cost long term for the Peace Institute to make sure that it's something that they can continue to use and they can serve them well long into the future. Next. And then just to close out, we are seeking a number of variances that as I mentioned, relate to the site, the way that the building is positioned on the site to accommodate all of the constraints of needing to relate to the open space that we're proposing as well as the kind of programmatic adjacencies that we're seeking to achieve and the access to the building. So thank you and we're happy to take any questions. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Yes, the morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Anthony Winn with Office Neighborhood Services. The Mayor's Office would like to go on record and support his proposal. The Louis D Brown Institute has been a strong partner in supporting our Boston families that are impacted by gun violence. They provide critical resources for these families on immediate as well as a long-term basis during an extensive community process spanning years, reponent in the Mayor's Office of Housing, Mental Neighbors, Community stakeholders, meeting with the United Neighbors Association several times they secure their support for proposal. We are pleased that the Institute has an opportunity to move into this new space which allows them to continue the necessary work of our Mayor's Hill and the law and the other residents. We hope the board will support this proposal. Thank you, partners. First, Brisbane for Councilor Wartell's Office. We would like to stand in the strong support of this project. The piece Institute has been a critical partners for the city and district four in addressing community violence and this project going forward will definitely allow us to better serve the needs of our community. Thank you. Okay, we have a few speakers. So the peanut comes out of Joe Bacchard. Go ahead, Joe. Thanks. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Joe Bacchard. I'm the last team of developers there with Mayor's Office of Housing. I'm a little bit strong to support this project. We've been working with the team since their designation as the developer of the City of Arsols, the large class here of 2023 and before that the Mayor's Office of Housing conducted a series of community engagements and released or requested proposals surrounding this. This is our solid and I'm objective for development. So the team has been a really good partner of the city and we continue to work with that as they progress toward construction and we support this project. Thank you. Thanks, and I see another way to get all the cameras to the panel. You looking to give us a touch on here. I know you look a lot. Yes, I am. My family is the end of the peace census to my brother, resharing, the Dorchester, and Tina Sherry and the peace census to who was a great asset to the community, not also, not, it also helped the family, but it also stopped that cycle of escalation where this retaliation, when the murder does happen in Dorchester. So I would support Tina Sherry while I was at it. And any other other peace census to those who are performing? Thanks. We just need your name and address for the weather. It's Ben Wilde, Nina 17 cushioned out Dorchester, Madison. Oh, thanks. Thank you. And I have no additional reasons at the moment, manager. Thank you. We thought we have a motion. Yes, I would love to make a motion to approve this project. Thank you, ma'am. Second. Second. Second. I'll go. I'll go. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, yes, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. Collins. Yes. Miss Olivia. Yes. Miss Pannato. Yes. Sure. Also, yes. The motion carries. Thank you, guys. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. God bless. Before we go to the discussions scheduled for 1130, we will ask if there are any questions or questions from your local public doctor? Yes. I'd love to pin a hand from our MTA at home. Good morning, I'm Adjivine. I'm Mr. Bord. We're seeking a deferral for next month. Finally, we're seeking the survey as well. Just tell us again, Mr. Stambridge, you're reading it to the record. It's our 42 new markets, where? Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Thank you, Valencia. So that would be for case B-O-A, 153-5353, with the address of 42 new markets square. All I'm going ahead, Mr. P. Yes, we would like to borrow for next month. We should have the stamp of approval on the additional parking required. Thank you. Mr. Nampfer. We have a final slot for July 30th, if that's sufficient time, Adam Chair. Does that work for you, Mr. Dupina? Yes, it does. Okay, we have a motion. Make a motion till the fall for July 30th. Now, second, Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins. You're a mute. I am sorry, I was that. Yes. It is over the eight. Yes. Ms. Penauto. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. I see you then. Thank you. And we'll ask again if there are any further requests from July and the frills from the 1130th awkward. Yes, 164 old colony Avenue, Mr. Stambridge. That would be case. The only 157, 6978. The address of 164, we'll call the avenue. Go ahead and explain the journey. More. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with a business address. 350 was Broadway and self-hosted. Madam Chair, the last time this matter, the first time that matter was before the board, I request to make the furl, primarily to address building code concerns. There's a companion building code base. At that time, we saw that the furl was granted the deferral until today. And also at that time, I abandoned the petition for any building code relief. The architect made changes to address all the building code issues. Updated plans were submitted to the Inspectorial Services Department in May. Unfortunately, we learned last night that the plans have not yet been reviewed by the plans examiner. I do want to point out to the board just so that it can make an informed decision that the plan set that is available depicts exactly the building that is being proposed. My point is that with the updated plans, there are no changes to the exterior of the building, no changes to the physical envelope or the building program. There were all interior changes to address building code issues, but ISD did contact me yesterday and request that we seek a deferral. So, as is so often the case, I just want to do a leave this to the discretion of the board, but I did want to provide that additional information. Thank you. Next, the bill will take please. We could do August 13th, Madam Chair. Mr. Mariety. Yes, that works. Thank you. Okay. We have a motion. Motion to refer until August 13th. May I have a second? I heard that. Mr. Stembers. Yeah. Mr. Lawrence here. Yes. Mr. Aidan. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. This is OVA. Yes. Mr. Penoto. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. So, we're going to return to the hearing schedule for 11th block. If that we go through case B08, 159, 80, 540, the address of 1420 to 1424, the NHS Revenant. This is an article 80 project, and it sounds correct. We represent a by turning Lawrence. That is correct. Thank you, Mr. Stembers. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is George Mariety. I'm an attorney with the business address. It's 350 West Broadway in South Boston. This is as Mr. Stembridge stated, ABDDA through Article 80 small project, proposing a new 46 residential unit mixed use building at 1420 Dorchester Avenue in Dorchester. I represent the owners of the site, the Gordon family, who have been the owners since the late 1970s. Their company's name is City Nords Development, the official project applicant and practitioner, architectural services are being provided by Rode Architects and Mike of Delafable Broadame, is here as well. The site, as I say, 1420 Dorchester Avenue, the long-time location of a 711 convenience store. The lot is 19,745 square feet, and is occupied by the single-story convenience use building, as well as a surface parking lot for customers. Proposed as a new five-story mixed use building to contain approximately 2,000 square feet of ground floor retail space on Dorchester Avenue, 46 residential units, and below great parking for up to 33 vehicles. The site is within an NS neighborhood shopping sub-disterk within Dorchester's Article 6 and 5. It is further located within the area of the BVDA's plan, the governor's corner, and the BVDA has agreed that what is being proposed complies with the plan's requirements for mixed use development with an active ground floor commercial use at this site. Motivating this proposed development is a desire on the half of the coordinates to transform this large site into a more attractive, more active, and more imaginative use that a single-story commercial building with open-air parking lot. This development will bring additional units of much-needed new housing to the Dorchester neighborhood, which will in turn serve further support existing retail commercial uses along this section of Dorchester Avenue. In a track of new five-story building appropriate ins, in size, the else is location. The project is consistent with the city's development vision for this area under Plan Gorgas Corner, which is the planning initiative that resulted from over five years community conversations and workshops sponsored by the BVDA. As will be seen in a moment when Michael Bellafave makes a brief design presentation, the building and site that the design providing appropriate height and density along Dorchester Avenue, while leaving generous setbacks and areas under open space, holds along Dorchester Avenue, as well as at the rear where the site approaches residential Duncan Street. The Dorchester Avenue Foundation includes generous setbacks and massive green space areas to provide a more comfortable pedestrian experience in the track of site presentation. With respect to zoning, barrens is required for insufficient dot-street parking and loading. 33 spaces are proposed at 69, and required by code. Excessive floor area ratio, where FAR1 is allowed, and in FAR2.5 is being proposed. Excessive building height, this is a five-story building just over 58 feet in height and insufficient yard setbacks. The zoning reviews, the letter also says, conforming with existing building alignment along Dorchester Avenue, front-inside building wall, or it's not being parallel to front-inside all outlines, and finally a conditional use permit for the proposed ground floor residential units. As an approved article, 80 small project, all proposed densities setback, height and off-street, parking and loading conditions have been thoroughly vetted in the food by the BBEA and other city agencies, and have deemed to be compliant with the Glover's Corner Plan, with the city's planning aspirations for this section of Dorchester Avenue. With respect to the building's height, I can relate that what was originally proposed was a four-story building, and during community process, there was an expressed storm desire to increase the height of the building in order to add additional residential units. The BBEA agreed with this suggestion, and the result is the current five-story proposal, with respect to the conditional use permit at ground floor residential units, complemented ground floor commercial unit of approximately 2000 square feet, and will further serve to activate the site's Dorchester Avenue front-inch. Finally, this is currently planned to be an arctic units project, and will provide seven IDP rental units, or an IDP percentage, with just over 15% with all units to be offered at 70% AMI. Now, turn things over to Michael Delafay for very brief urban design overview of the project, Mike. Thanks very much. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Mike Delafay. We're very architects and the studio director here, with the business address of 535, all in the street, fourth floor. Madam Ambassador, would you please go to slide number two? Oh, I'm sorry, slide number four. It got a little mixed up there. Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out this site's location. It's just to the north of Fields Corner, a very active area of the city. We're really excited to be able to have the opportunity to work here. Here already many of us live right in this neighborhood, so it's really a great opportunity for us. So the site is just in the north of Fields Corner, where Adam Street and Dorchester Avenue come together. Would you please go to slide number six? Thank you very much. So I'll just take you through the site plan and I'll kind of work around the plan clockwise. So as mentioned, there's a significant flambuant setback, 10 feet. The entire building is back 10 feet off of the property line. This was done in coordination and collaboration with the community and with the BPDA. So ample sidewalks with a minimum of really about 20 feet when you include the sidewalk itself. There is a ramp that goes down to underground parking. And then as I move throughout the plan, there's a series of residential units on the, what appears to be the ground level, but there's a topography change here. So there's actually those units that you see are actually above grade by five or six feet. And then as we move around, you'll see that there's that 20 foot setback in the north east corner of the lot. And then in the southeast corner of the lot, we've been able to push back away from the property line significantly in order to provide a private yard for the tenants of this building. A really great ample amount of outdoor space, kind of active zone and also creates a significant setback from our neighbors to our east. We're also providing a lobby and a club room, as well as trash and bikes that would have direct access to the curb for those functions of the building. In the southwest corner of the lot, you'll see that there's another significant setback. That's roughly about 18 and a half feet. And that setback actually provides public files. So that files is open to the public. And in collaboration with the ownership group and with the BPDA, there's been discussions about having that being active kind of arc area. You know, this is a very vibrant aspect of the community and the ownership group has been very much involved in the RTM city. So this is, you'll see that there's a small art object in the plan. And then as Mr. Merranty mentioned, there is a commercial state that activates the street level. Couple other things just to point out, the free could go to sheet, I'm not sure a number on this for you, but it's A01. And then I'll quickly come back to these renderers. Yes, right there. So this just gives you a sense of the upper floors. It gives you a sense that this is a completely stacked plan, a mix of ones and twos. The split is about 50-50. And we are providing outdoor decks, balconies for many of the units around the perimeter of the building. There is also Juliet balconies that allow for open space or at least open to the air units on doorchester Avenue. And then next slide, up one more. And then these funds just illustrate those setbacks and that fifth story that was added that Mr. Merranty mentioned in his overview. The plan on the left is the fifth level where we're able to add five more units. Those also have outdoor space and decks associated with them. And then finally, I'll just let talk about the architecture just a little bit. Perhaps go to any of the renderings would be adequate. Thank you very much. So this is just a frontal view of the project. We've been asked by the client to make sure that there's ample light in all of the all units. We are looking at either a cementitious or even a terracana facade. This is, we're really actually excited about this building. This is not one of those buildings that we see as being having a front and a back. This is, it's intended to have an architectural richness that surrounds the entire building. So no sides are, let's say, a cheap and any manner. So happy to take any questions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I follow the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor and England with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. And this time the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment that's board. I just went through a PPE-led community process with public meeting held back in May of 2023. There was also a number of comments submitted to the BPA with residents expressing support feeling that this is a more appropriate use for this product-land and to our Chester as well as a comment from one community member who wanted to see it higher in height and density. With that information, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay. I'll hear another. Hello. Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Raven's Council for the Streljoppists. I would like to unrecords the board of this proposal. Thank you. Okay, just looks like someone from BPDA. Second BPD is a criminal and a criminal. Okay, you are immediately skyrocketed. Thanks, Jessica. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Scott Greenhall. I'm a project manager at the BPDA. This project was filed with the BPDA on May 1st, 2023, and successfully completed the article 80 review process. This process included a BPDA sponsor public meeting held on May 25th, 2023. The BPA board approved the project on December 14th, 2023. Thank you. Thanks, Madam. Have no additional raise hand at the moment. That may have a motion. All right, Mr. O'Connor, I'm a couple of what would be BPDA? Do you have the sound very... Back in. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Rolencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Ms. Conato. Yes. Sheryl's yes, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case of BOA 159305. With the address of 88, your name and avenue. It's the applicant and all the representatives present with the explanation. Good. Hi, I'm Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon. This is Mike Ross. I am at one international place. And I'm here with architect Eric Zacherson. So this is an article 80 small project review. It's located in the Roxbury and Aboa district and a 3-up 4000 sub district. What we're proposing is a five-story new construction multi-family structure. On two parcels that are just over 20,000 square feet on a vacant parcel or two vacant parcels. There's also the private street that runs along the right side of the parcel which each butter owns to the center line up through the derelict fee statute. The plan is to build a 36-unit home ownership building with 24 parking spaces, a small cafe on the ground floor along Geneva Ave and a connecting sidewalk. The project used the property along Wilder Street along that private way to create the public accessible sidewalk to connect Geneva Ave to Oldfield Road on project property but public access. And during the community process there was additional demand for three better units. So the plan was allowed additional massing in order to achieve eight such three better units. In addition the six of the units were IVP four units that's 16.6% on this project. I just want to turn it over to Eric to quickly walk you through the project. I'll come back to talk about some Eric. Thank you Mike. If you want to scroll down to the plans as Mike alluded to the project extends from Geneva Ave on the left side of the street, fields on the right side of the street, right side of this page. And there is a plaza along Geneva Ave which has the entrances to a number of uses and then you see both a common public sidewalk along the bottom that would connect people who want to walk between the fields as well as a sidewalk along the top of the page that would connect to a couple of the amenities next to the side of this. So here you see the parking being entered off of the fields street on the right but the lobby and retail space is supposed to be parking all being accessed from Geneva on the left side of the page and there are two amenities spaces at the top of the page which are meant for the private use of the residents. They are a gym and a community room. Both the community room and the retail spaces have generated a lot of more a lot of the excitement in the neighborhood as far as having something that's kind of more local in this particular area. So this is an elevator building and all the floor plates from level 2 to 5 are going to be identical. There are as Mike was mentioning two three bed units on each floor, three one bed units on each floor and three two bed units on each floor. These are relatively large units with the one bed being 690 the small one bed being 690 and the large one being 845 square feet. The three beds are just under 1300 square feet so sizeable and the units have individual private decks five or six feet deep and anywhere from 10 to 12 feet wide. Next slide. And there is a common roof deck situated to have views of the city and to be closer to our taller neighbors along Geneva Avenue and we're going to surround that common roof deck with an extensive green roof which would mean kind of wild natural grasses from from the region that provides both privacy for the roof deck tenants as well as an amenity that reduces the key urban heat island effect but the common roof deck would be used by by the tenants of building who is about 1700 square feet. Next slide. And then there are elevations showing how we've used a variety of materials to to break down the scale of the building. It does have one very long elevation along what would be wilder street if wilder street were built but the narrower elevation the face both Geneva and over the old species one of them up atop of this page and one at the top of the next page. We wanted to try and break them down more to the scale of kind of a pair of narrow taller buildings. Next slide. Building sections and then I believe there are renderings on the last page. Yes. A handful of renderings showing it in the neighborhood. The upper left showing the coffee shop and the one of the really nice things this week me is part of the plaza and part of the private wilder way as seating floor the cafe. It will be overwhelming it can be a cafe or a coffee shop then on the upper right you see the extents of the green roof and the on the roof deck and then a couple more views from street level. That includes my part of the presentation. Mike did you want anything? Just man chair on the zoning violations. The industry parking would require 36 we have 24 spaces. Existing building alignment was cited. The use of the coffee shop as well as the multi-family. Additional lot per unit is required for this site. FAR this site even though there are a number of large buildings throughout this corridor we're at a 2.395 against a required 0.8. Highted the building calls for a 3 or a 5. Highted the building also calls for 35 feet or at 55 feet. Open space violation were just about half where we are supposed to be 650 green and we're 337 per unit. We were cited for front yard off wilder I still understand that but we were cited for it and then the front dimension of the project along Geneva is not parallel to the slanted street so when that happens you get a site for that as well. I'll pause there. I'm out. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes sir. I have a few questions about the roof deck. How many roof decks are in that area? Mr. Lang there's a new building that was done at 66 Geneva. I'm pretty sure that included a roof deck. I have to go back and look at it. It's similar in massing in size to this building. Different developer about three or four over to the left. I think before your time maybe just a little bit more time. We did talk to the councilor's office about putting a green roof on the roof deck. What happened is that caused the roof deck to shrink in size. Originally it was a much larger roof deck. Now it's smaller. I hope that answered your question. Yes it does. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge did you have a question? Interested how many three bedrooms are going to be in the building? 83 bedrooms. I'm sorry? 839. Okay. Okay. Other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Let's open it up to the public testimony. Yes Madam Chair and members of the board. Conor and in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. In this time the mayor is office like to defer to the judge on this board. Some back notifications of the community process. This went through a PPD led community process involving a public meeting in August of 2023 as well as meetings with the local civic association. The civic group, Stembridge Street, slash Old Fields Road, Long Beer Road, Neighborhood Association and a butter express concerns with this proposal. Inside of their opposition concerns raised such as the amount of green space being proposed. The height of the building in comparison to other structures in the neighborhood as well as concerns that the parking excuse excuse me exiting the building leading into a dead way, a dead end way on Old Fields which they thought would end up really impacting the character of the neighborhood and leading to a lot of congestion. That is made to refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay. I'm going to come in soon in the left of the officials office. I hope we'll go ahead and see your hands. Thank you. We met with the developer and we did advocate for additional three veteran green roofs which were incorporated into the project. We have spoken with the local civic associations where their concerns are again the height of the building as well as traffic concerns. At this time our office will defer to the judgment of the board. Okay. And Daniel? Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polanco here, Project Manager, BPDA. This project went under the small replication process and our small probably got a review process as well. I have submitted their application in June 29th, 2023 with a public meeting in August 1st, 2023 and a board approval of November 16th, 2023. Thank you. Thanks. Mike? My name is Michael Closu, co-director of Project RIDE 320A Blue Avenue. We would dig go through a process with the developer. We are still extremely concerned and neighbors are extremely concerned about the impact of the roof deck and extremely opposed to the roof deck. We also questioned and our experience with paper streets is much different. We'd like to have more discussion about how they think they can facilitate that process because we're working on another paper street in the area and haven't had a similar situation. We think that the driveway into Oldsfield Road is a fatal fall to let it fully destroy the nature of the character Oldsfield Road, which are dead in the streets, which means that those houses there are totally on a quiet street off of very busy roads. On those blocks, this project is proposed on 33 out of the 37 properties of our two family houses. This building totally changes the character of that block. Again, I think we think that the impact of the commercial business, if folks know it, Geneva have it's very busy, it's very tight on parking and I think that area is going to get very close up with their proposal. Thank you. Yes, good afternoon, everybody doing. I'm a homeowner at 53 Oldsfield Road. As Mike just mentioned, our concern is also what is this wilder way, the street name that you guys are mentioning? How is that going to connect to Oldsfield Road? No additional waste hands at the moment. So can the developer adjust those two issues around the paper streets in the roof deck? Absolutely. So wilder way, I can understand that there being concern that any kind of vehicular traffic would go down rather way, that's opening Oldsfield Road, which is a quiet road up to Geneva app level traffic. And for that reason, we were directed by the city, the Transportation Department, the BPDA, to not allow that condition to happen or even propose it, which we did not. Instead, we're only proposing pedestrian access. There is no code cut, there is no vehicular access, there is no reason for a car to ever, there's no means of a car to ever go down wilder street. It couldn't even have it wanted to. Our plans would create a pedestrian cut through and only a pedestrian cut through. Presently, there is no such cut through, there's a maybe a natural cut through what people are cutting through on their own without a sidewalk. We would be providing a sidewalk with lights and all the things that sidewalks have to create only pedestrian access between Oldsfield and Geneva app. And for that same reason, putting the curb cut off of Oldfield Road and not putting it on Geneva Road was also a requirement of the BPD and the transportation of the process because it would have contributed to congestion along Geneva app and it would have contributed to one more loss of an additional parking space along Geneva app by creating a new curb cut off the front of Geneva app. So again, we were encouraged to go along the back. And again, you're only talking about 24 parking spaces for the entire building. In terms of massing of this building, like I mentioned, it's not unlike a recently approved building, just too low-right at 66 Geneva app. This building sits across the street from the Burke High School, which has a similar size and mass as well as across the street from the Grove Hall community center, which has a similar size and mass as well. Along Joel L, Smith Way, there are also the square built-up to the edges of the property line, apartment buildings that are rather thick. The roof tack was something that we created to allow for additional open space, which is something that people mentioned as well. That combined with the FAR building seems to work to create a desired amount for the plan. It provides additional open space. That's why we allow for it. The roof tack does. That's why we put it up there. Other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, is there a motion? Not before an emotion of approval. And this is not an argument that all have BPDA design we can. Okay, is there a second? Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lainham. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lavee. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Yes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B-O-A 156 2484, which has the address of 326 blue panel avenue. If the applicant and the representative present, please explain the case to board. Okay. To see some raised hands there. We're going to use that, Dana, if you want for this, the vocal. My Dan can hear us? Yes. Do you want for this one, Danzo? Yes. I'm nice to be turning the candidate to the votes. I'm using the colleagues, the CUNYR and the Cofferts. Okay. Please do. I have my ice going here and turning with me to Laura, a wealthy. And I also have another member where she graduated from, the University of Highford, the Alpsville Tax will be the summer, or the winter. Are you presenting or someone else presenting? I'll be presenting. You should have. You see a ratting, perhaps a ratting can. Yes. Let's see. I'll be doing a lot of analysis. Okay. Thank you. We're going out on the green screen. Are you able to see our screen? We cannot view your screen. You have to present with the materials you submitted, which you can see on the screen. Okay. Sure. So I'll get us started. Kenneth Phillips, Lobs is a Kenneth B. Phillips, who are one that's treated native for the applicant. G. R. Residential Mr. Payton is a member of the ownership group and has been involved in some of the community meetings. This is a bus of 3.6, 3.4, that's 3.6A. It's between Long Ex Avenue Preston Street on New Hill Avenue. There are two existing buildings coming out of Long Ex Avenue that you can see in the lower left-hand corner. It's 3.20 and 3.22. Our existing buildings, they're essentially commercial on the ground floor and perhaps two or three units on the two floors above. What we are proposing to do is create a building that is in continuity and counter-risk with the existing structures. We do not comply with any of the setback requirements. The only item that we're comply with is grief stories. We're allowed to have four stories enough to fit into feet, I believe. By the way, this is a multi-family residential district of Roxbury. So what we're seeking to do is have look like 3.2 or 3.20 floor are all working in in Unison. This is kind of a grass lot. I'm improving the lot and there is another lot that would be perhaps 3.20.8. Blue that is allowed in New, that is owned by the city, that is unapproved as well. As far as units and square floors, the first floor, there will be a ground floor basement, if you will, with laundry facilities, the storage for each unit. The first floor will be commercial of approximately 1,088 square feet. The second and third floors will be 1,090 square foot, three bedroom, two bath residential units. As far as the facade will be utilized and brick and the same facade that ties in the roof line above, there will all be three story buildings. As you can see, we have a four foot passenger way coming from the rear of the property as well. And the lot itself is 1,526 square feet. We'll be building on 1,377 square feet. Solar canals will install on the roof and we think that this will be preferable to just a lot of remaining unapproved and it will be, like I said, in congruity with the lines of the adjacent butting buildings and also will be in approved boss乗 as opposed to unapproved. Thank you. Mr. Payne, you have anything to add if you're on the call? Yes, so hi everybody, my name is Roddy Peña. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Lifetime resident of Roxbury just wanted to chime in on a few things. So at the community meetings, there were a few concerns. One of them being people hanging out in the front of the buildings on the sidewalks, like they do up and down Blue Hill. I mean, I know that the community doesn't want people on the sidewalks so we were thinking as a solution if the zoning would approve is that we could add a common space roof deck if needed, therefore the residents wouldn't have to be on the sidewalk and they could have a space on the roof for the residents. The other concern was parking. We do not have any solutions for parking besides the fact that the owners of this building also own a light on 150 Blue Hill lab that they said that they'd be willing to use as parking for this building, but there's really, really tough to have any solutions for parking besides another lot because of just the way it works. And as you guys know on Blue Hill, it's kind of the theme up and down. Now we are interested on the lot next door which is the city owned lot, but we heard through the grapevine that the city has plans on developing that lot as well, which brings me to the third point which is the mural. There is a beautiful pro-black mural on the side of 324 Blue Hill lab that we also love and we would love to duplicate on this new building attached building, but it would be senseless to do so if the city plans on building on that vacant lot. So again, we would love to have that lot for parking, but if the city is already going to build on that not only does it eliminate our parking solution, immediate parking solution, but it also makes it difficult to recreate that mural. But otherwise we feel like it conforms with the styles of Blue Hill and everything surrounding it right now. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony? Madam Chairman and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberi. I am the Rock and Glory community engagement specialist for the Office of Legal Exhibition. The FAF can have completed the community process which consists of an abundance meeting held on April 18th, it is indicated by myself and the civic meeting held on April 29th. During the abundance meeting, the abundance of voice concerns about parking, loud music, trash, loaderings and lack of confidence they control the new commercial space as the current commercial space that Bob and Sharp has now been maintained. Again, I am going to loud music noise and loaderings. There was also mention of restoring the side of the building with the mural that was aforementioned. During the civic meetings, the civic groups have stated their opposition to the project due to the violations of significant specifically the parking and yard space. The proponent presented no plan on how to move forward with that. The civic's also mentioned the adjacent commercial property against the barbershop with the problem property and the community. We have received no letters of support and one letter of opposition, I just specifically want to make civic groups out of organic gas and all this pure venom and association. At this time, the mezalfa from the neighborhood, everything is connected to the project. Thank you. Hi, members. Thank you. Councillor Waryl's office will defer to the barbers' decision on this. Michael Kosoop, project write co-director. We are a letter at $320 a.m. The meeting was very mistaken by saying that the adjacent building is similar to what they are proposing is $320, $320, $320, $320. The original lot went through a city, $320, $320, $320, $6 went through a city disposition over 20 years ago as a one common lot that allowed for the renovation of the present commercial space plus two units of housing. They are trying to build on the open space. That $3,000 square five. A lot, 20 years ago, it's thought to be too small for what it was being proposed for but neighbors went with it by adding a similar size building on the open space. It eliminates all open space for $324. The $324.00 block that are promised property, their barbershop has constantly blasted out music from the, now they have in cards in front of the lot where they go across the street to blast their music. No way where we support any sort of roof debt because the property owner has not been able to manage this property. There's a lack of open space. They either congregate on the sidewalk or in the back alley without the lack of parking what they do is they block the driveway. So I'm late at night when I'm trying to get out after deadline. I have to search to see which of our patrons are blocking on the driveway as I get out. So there's been strong opposition to this. The city, we've been part of the city process with the vacant lot and the city process was going to be very respectful of the mural and was going to have the mass inability away from the mural. We don't think that the city drops a mayor's office in housing process so we will work closely with them on that but we totally oppose this. Thank you. Mr. McKnight's Chairman. Are there any other raised hands Jessica? No. Okay. I'll back to the applicant. Yes please. Briefly. I just wanted Mr. Crow to clarify. So the people that as we had, what we spoke about in the meeting, the people who were blocking this driveway, actually the residents of the building next door on the corner which I believe is 322 which we do not own and yes that building has been a problem because it's like a rooming house. So there's a million people in there and we have no control over that corner building that had the bodega but I just wanted to clarify that in regards to pollution blocking these driveways. It's not our attendance. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah I have one small question. Yes Mr. I like the no roof decks and then the vicinity. I don't know if the applicant has an answer but they're not proposing the roof deck for this project. Oh no. Only if we were saying that we would be open to that if the lack of open space is an issue therefore we would add that to our plans if that was very open. So to clarify Mr. Langer's question it is not quite a proposal. No no no no thank you and from what we heard from some of our butters probably not a desired aspect of the project. Any other questions from the board? Yes. What is the proposed size of the resident building? I think you're over the typing. I don't know who else can. What was the question? What is the proposed size of the resident here? Mr. Langer's answer. Yes this is Kent Phillips. So the residential unit is a 180 square feet three bedroom two full bath and a commercial unit is 190 square feet and what are the resident entry units of these rentals or homeowners? Most likely rentals but that's not extra stone. Okay thank you. Any other questions from the board? You're in Dunham, I have a motion. My name is Eric and I'm also in a couple of walls with BPA in this area. Now the second? The second. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langer. Yes ma'am. Mr. Collins. Yes. Miss Olivier. Yes. Miss Penauto. Yes. Shervo's yes motion carries. All right last case of the 11s and we're going on break after. And that takes us to case B.O.A. It's 154 41 49 with the address of 39 to 41 root plus street. The applicant and the representative present. They please. Yes Mr. Stambridge and Madam Chairman of the board thank you for your time again. Kyle Smith of Statero Law. This is address of 359 in Newbury. Street and Boston's back bay. We currently have a vacant parcel of land on woodcliff. Our lot sizes about 3,081 square feet. We have a uniquely narrow lot of only 30 feet in width. Which happens to be the same kind of width and length very closely to our immediately adjacent parcels to our right. The proposed plans call for the direction of a three family. The footprint of the structure is roughly about 1173 square feet. The rough unit sizes are approximately 1075 square feet. Setbacks on our left and right because of the uniquely narrow lot are only about three and four feet respectively. We have a front yard setback violation but we are in exact alignment with our two three families to our immediate left. To believe we have a modal applicable ability. The first and second and third floors are supposed to be the same footprint with a three bed two bath with two beds aligned to the right of the building with a master to the back left with bathroom in front and then living area in kitchen. A rear decking and stairwell to the rear of the structure. The basement level being comprised of storage and mechanicals and the laundry. We are not able to accommodate parking as we have a uniquely narrow lot and as you can see we're taking a roughly 23 feet of width but for a very usable three family or three family that is a rough needed width for the footprint of the structure. I've had communications internally with the BPD and allow for them to confirm themselves of a preference of less parking over others so one of the complaints of the community was a lack of parking for the new structure but given a lot with we have very little ability to accommodate off-tree parking given a three family and a three family four thousand sub-district and our lot size and post three family are very much in keeping with a lot of the other structures in very close proximity which themselves do not have off-tree parking on both woodclif and also Howard which is only about four lots east of ours. With that I'm happy to elaborate more and take questions from the board. Thank you questions from the board. Okay hearing done by a man of the customary. Yes madam chair members of the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time of Mayor's Office I would defer to the judgment that's board. Ones held by the butters being in December 13th. The applicant also went on to meet with the Faceman Street Residence Association and the Lawrence AF group as well as a civic consisting of the lab Quincy Street, Magnolia Street and Howard AF Neighbor Association in January. They discussed off-street parking of the BPA you know ones recommend another meet with the Neighborhood Association. I'm not sure if they were looking to contact with that other civic group but we didn't perceive a letter from the Neighborhood Association saying that they opposed this project to the size of the project and Howard fits into the parcel and what they feel is not enough off-street parking. A mediator butters also voiced concerns. They felt that the project was too high and height and that it would tower over the existing two family dwellings that flank either side of the project. This time our office likes to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Michael said you look at the testimony here at side of your hands. Go ahead Mike. Michael Klausu, project head director 3208. We worked with many residents to review the project. I'll keep this plot has been a problem. It's been cited for many years of violations in terms of the philosophy of the new owner. A lot of the next two of them is 4,081 where the next house on their side is. This plot is much more smaller. The size of the building creates lack of open usable green space for the lot and this plot also has challenges regarding lack of street parking and area where others parking challenges. Plus we see very good word on how they're dealing with the fire hydrant and some of the other issues in front of their building on how they're going to try to address some of the construction around this as well. Thank you. Thank you. I'd love to check the signal additional waste here. Madam Chair, I'm happy to respond to briefly. I guess there are those. There isn't existing fire hydrant and a street light in front of the proposed structure. We're not proposing a curb cut to you know interfere with either of those. So the pre-existing fire hydrant and street light as indicated we have a you know uniquely narrow lot which provides some new building challenges and fundamentally we don't have the option for off street parking. We are proposing a stacked triple decker just like what is it to our immediate left two lots with a foot print again of a very reasonable sub 1200 square feet. So I don't think anything we're looking to do is not keeping with what curvings is up and down woodcliff and how it's treated. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that be a motion? A motion to approve of PPDA design and bill. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Femperage. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lano. Mr. Collins. Yes. Miss Olivier. Yes. Miss Panado. Yes. There are votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With that we'll take a 15 minute break. Recall.