 you you I'm going to start recording recording progress. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for August 12, 2025 is now in session. The hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions and act in rather legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its backless important virtual hearings through June 20, 20, 20, and this hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar in that thought comments also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. This is the information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on public notices page of the city's website, roslin.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted, want to ask to comment board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panels, just trying to encourage to keep video on while presenting the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. A lot of the officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chairman limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for comment as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who look closest to the project. If you wish to comment on it, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive requests under yourself. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive their request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mrs. Dumberj reads the address into the record. If you do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting calls will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Dumberj. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. Wielow. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. Berraza. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Okay, and of course, my agenda has Mr. Langham twice because we really want him here, but I believe I should be calling for Mr. Molesi. When Lord the Madam Chair, President, yes, I'm here. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Turner, yes. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. O'I know. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Next, we have at the extension schedule 930. There are 18 extensions. I'll try and get to more correctly. After that, there are any questions. We can direct those to the bathroom chair. We'll begin with the case B.O.A. 124-794-8. With the address of 80-104 West Broadway. Then we have case B.O.A. 139-6206. With the address of 43 South Brunswick Street. Case B. Then we have case B.O.A. 115-9113. The address of 693 comes highway. Next, we have case B.O.A. 145-9116. With the address of 770-Galboa. Next, we have case B.O.A. 133-8631. The address of 539-533 East Broadway. Then we have case B.O.A. 103-5609. The address of 820-420. 820-340. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1405-496. With the address of 834-East-4 Street. Then we have case B.O.A. 1405-6609. 544-944. With the address of 836-East-4 Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 947-520. With the address of 121-Roobside Avenue. Next, we have case B.O.A. 133-7665. With the address of 596-East-7 Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 144-4863. The address of 272-276. High Park Avenue. Next, we have case B.O.A. 877-14. With the address of 72-Galboa. Next, we have case B.O.A. 12870-Roobside. With the address of 1 of 1759-1763. Washington Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1270-458. With the address of 545-East-4 Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1246-944. With the address of 135-Wish Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1246-9000. With the address of 145-Wish Street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 129-1555. With the address of 18-bridge-cross road. And finally, we have case B.O.A. 1406-470. With the address of 24-800. That's your note of the extension. This is going to be a piece of cake. Thank you for reading all those. Are there any questions from the board? Here in the now we have a motion to grant the extensions as requested. I make the motion to grant the extensions that would be questioning. Yeah, the second. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yeah. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next, we have two more final offer to cases. Get your for 930 AM. I'll ask in a minute, but I believe they were together. That I will read the case B.O.A. 148-6207. I will ask, I will ask Attorney Small, if these two cases go together. Yes, they do. Mr. Stambridge. Then along with the first. Three people. One. There will be case B.O.A. 1501503. With the address of 30. Clifton Street. Thank you for that information. Attorney Small. Yes. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Then along with the first. Three people. One. Yes. Mr. Stambridge. I'll turn it small, and I'll keep moving the spot. Sure. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Bore, the traffic director is small of a business adjustment 51. Dr. Broom. Quickly today are the owners of the property, Mr. Allen and Mr. Bruce de Silva. Madam Chair, we are here simply as a housekeeping matter and declare our direct-up with regard to this project. This project was originally approved as a together as six residential units with four parking spaces. And as a result of BPD, the salary of you, we still are at six units with the reduction in parking to two spaces. As we have increased the open space with the BPD and plans will be submitted as such. So what we were seeking today was just confirmation of the new, of the decision, of the original decision for six units. And with the changes that were recommended by the Boston Planning Department. I know Jeff Hampton is on it. I don't know if he wants to add anything to that, but we have been in conversation about this with BPD. Thank you. Happy to hear from Mr. Hampton if you're on. Thank you Madam Chair, members and board, Jeff Hampton, City of Boston Planning Department. Terep is correct. I think in the VFA request, they said that we were reducing the number of units before that may have been lost somewhere along the line. This board never directed us to reduce the number of units. The footprint of the building actually stays the same. So square footage is the same. The setbacks, everything is exactly the same. They want to go back to six units as opposed to the two families that they had submitted the design review. We're fine with that. Going back to two, three families. Our request was that the plans that we spent for approval show an increased open space, a reduction of parking spaces from four to two. So what we just need to do now is gel these two sets of plants together. One that shows security with the reduction of parking and the increase in open space and we're fine with that. So we're on board with six units on this. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions. I had a chance to review the plans and the proposal and it seems permissible. Any other questions from the board or comments? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. There's second. So I think it's Cambridge. Yeah. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. He's Turner. Yes. Ms. Barbarazo. Yes. Ms. Langel. Yes. Chairman, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Buehler, we'll be done. Thank you. Next. Next, we have groundwater conservation. Overlooking district cases, 9.30 a.m. The case is VOA1723649, but the address of 140 Portland Street. If the applicant can't do it, the representative present will take the complete plan to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Buehler, Shane Lillice, with 5007 architecture of business address of 46 Grand B&W. The proposal is for a addition and converted from a single family to a two family and we're cited for groundwater. As we're in the groundwater conservation district in the groundwater, meaning that this is the data of that, the change requirements in terms of the amount of water we're doing. So here is the proposed site plan, see the small addition of the groundwater building. Mostly, the area of the backstage, if we go to the next slide, the existing site plan, you kind of see where to go. It's a single family now that takes up a lot of line to a lot of line and a lot of all street final panel. Next slide. You can get going. There was only a quarter of the other zone next slide. And here, it was just sort of a zoning description sheet. So you can kind of see the areas of the addition on the third floor and off the rear. And the yellow line of the existing building. So right now, I think there's two story building, running a third story under the newer East Boston allowances for additions. And then the addition of the rear. Next slide please. Here we have these, a stanglay out of the basement, first floor, second floor. Next slide. And here we have the proposed, second floor, where they have a lower unit, and then the upper unit on the second and third floor. So can we hear it? We have the sustain and proposed finalizations and re-elevations in the city addition at the top. Next slide please. And here we have the outside elevation, showing the addition at the top as well as the addition of the rear. So I believe that is based on the plan. Like I said, the other highlight she was for groundwater overlay, which we've had the approval from Boston Water and sewer already. So we can take any questions. Mr. Seminelli, can you come? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. I'm Mr. Boyd, Christian Seminelli, the foster groundwater trust. And we have both G. Cudley and Ms. Femmey up again. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Or? Madam Chair, I'll put a floor, a motion of approval. Thanks. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Liner. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Good afternoon. Next we'll go to the hearings, get to 9.30 a.m. And at this time we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferred from the 9.30 a.m. time for it. Yes. Mr. Stembridge, 100 huntington avenue. So that would be more case. This is for case B.O.A. 170, the report, or Bob, the address of 100 huntington avenue. Please go ahead and explain turning to record. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm the board attorney, Jeff Dre, with Dre, and Tiscana, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here today, asking for a short deferral. This was for a decal signage on the exterior of a drawbridge. And we need to meet with the B.P.D.A. to go over some design questions, concerns. And I think it's just summer schedules, but I am actively working with Mr. Hinton to schedule that meeting. So if we could get a deferral so we can make that happen. And how far are you seeking this? I guess not far, if there's availability in September. Caroline, get something fun, third. I'm actually going to be aware of the day I'm coming home. So if one after that would be fine, whatever that may be. Bob, what was that? Perfect. Thank you. Madam, a motion? Motion to the third. I've told what the seven. Have a second. And Mr. Stubbridge. Yeah. Was we well? Yes. Mr. Laudcia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Braza. Yes. Mr. Lionel. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. See that. I have another as well. Oh, you do. Okay. 85th, a center street, ward 11. So that would be four cases of the O.A. 165, 295. The address of 85th, 75th. Go ahead. John Jordan. Thank you. Mr. Stubbridge, thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board attorney, Jeff Drego, with Drego and Tuscany, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here, asking for deferral. We have yet to submit. We will be submitting revised plans and working with the community. We did make changes. So the mailing should have gone out in the advertising. So we are asking for deferral to those plans can be reviewed by the examiner and a new refusal and a new advertisement go out with those reflecting those changes. Okay. Do we have other dates? Any dates, Carol? You can do October 7th, October 28th. 7th would be, you know what, the kind of, sorry, October 28th, just to be safe, would make sure there's enough time to review everything. May I have a motion? Motion to do. Senator Drego, it's October 28th. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stubbridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Volencia? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza? Yes. Mr. Laiber? Yes. Chair Volencia, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Any further request or draw? The first of the 9-30-year-end time crack? Hearing none, we'll move on then to begin with case theory, 153-494-2, with the adjunct and reference here. It's the applicant there who is the representative of President, with the police. Mr. Stubbridge, thank you. Good morning. I'm Madam Chair and through the numbers. My name is Richard Linz. I'm the attorney of the business address of 245-Sunders Street, needs Boston behalf of 10 rated LLC, which is the petitioner in this particular pattern. In John Dada's slide, too, please have a basket. So this involves a pre-existing diamond-forming structure, which is currently used in our department office, our proposal would be to change the use of our agency to maintain the office of the ground model and to have three residential levels of bottom for total of six residential units. This site is located just outside of Maverick Square. And when this was submitted, Madam Chair, which I believe we're getting to the hopefully end of the line here on these legacy filings, but this was submitted prior to the enactment of Venice R-53. And therefore, it's been cited, I believe they're total 14 violations that are incited. With the enactment of R-53 amendments, 12 of those violations get eliminated, which I think speaks volumes about how plenty of space has worked with predictability, as well as the difference between the old zoning and the new zoning. So in this particular case, this is essentially an asset-private proposal with the exception of two items, our street parking, which is not existing today on the site, as well as some design elements for the roof deck, which we are proposing. With respect to the only additional item we would require is the initial use permit under G-Pile, which we provide with both letters. We can jump down a couple of slides and turn them on to get out of slide 10, please. Yeah, this is a good place to start. So, a matter of chair, what was the board, the existing building that sits on the site pretty much occupied by the entire site, which is one of the reasons why many of the dimensional violations that would have been silently pulled to hire a golden 53 version have been eliminated. As this board is aware, changes hire a 53 allow for expansion of existing buildings such as this, vertically within existing footprints. So even though we don't meet rear front or site setbacks currently, we're permitted to increase the height of the building, which we're proposing here, provided that we don't make those setbacks in the worst. In this particular case, the height that's now allowable district is four stories, 50 feet. We are in four stories of just 450 feet, even as measuring all we have today headhows. I'll go to the next slide, please. So, just showing our proposed conditions, we do actually allow for some setbacks as we move off the building vertically and we can show those in the elevations when we get to those. With respect to the roof deck, I do note that the roof structure, roof structure restrictions for use boss then do have some setback requirements. All of those are easily capable to be combined with. I think we can address any of those issues in design or use should the board grant to be that we're requesting. I do know that the boss and tell you departments recommendation was for approval with design review, especially with respect to the roof decks and certainly the adjustments that may be necessary in order to achieve better compliance. Next slide, please. These are just existing conditions. I go right to slide 14 at the interest of time, used to look at the floor plans. So 14, the management of the board shows the basement level. We're not proposing the programming other than utility and other typical mechanicals that we found to search the building towards the middle of the page shows the ground level, which will be existing commercial space, which were made. And then we get up to level two, which will be converted to residential units back to the front. Next slide, please. We show the next two levels, which will be the addition on top of the existing building. Let me show the roof plan with the two mean to the egress, heading out to the roof deck itself. We go to the next slide, please. Sure. So our own nation's here as I indicated, maximum height is four stories, 50 feet under the amended zoning, which is precisely what we accomplished here with the design. We are below 50 feet when looking at the top of the head. Actually, the roof wrappers are below 50 feet. Headhouses don't necessarily count towards height, although I can't reach the ceiling, so we're right around the 50 foot mark, only the headhouses itself. So just looking at front and rear elevations as I indicated, we do have some setback that we did incorporate to the rear of a lot of those buildings and wood boats. Next slide, please. Just looking at our right-side elevation, because we do have sufficient setback on the right side, the building we're able incorporate those openings and windows, which allows for sufficient light air, et cetera, for those residential units. You can see, as we get out into that top level towards the rear, which is the screen right, we do have a pretty good setback of that level as well, and we probably show the same in the next slide, which will be the left side elevation. So left side is online with the joint property that we do illustrate the outline of the property next to us. We are not incorporating windows or openings on this side of the building based on the back of the little lot of mine, but yet you can see the setbacks that we love the building to straighten the lot of it. Next slide, please. Just some attempts at the context rendering to show how this building would fit in context with the street skin. Once again, with the amendments on, we'll be three, and we designation this area 100, we can get our four, the norm for height is up to four shores along this corner, possibly higher, if these are some of the seed-rod requirements as well, I'd like to indicate that the only relief that it will be is out of the world. The final product is the off-shoot parking requirements. We would be required to add six parking spaces for the six-bedded attribute to be proposed. However, this property would not be conducive to adding the garage and the ground level, or adding off-shoot parking, you could put on the site, and keeping the control space in the ground level, also serves the purpose of keeping activation. I'll pause there, Madam Chair, and I answer any questions or important to have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Mr. Seminole? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Christian Seminole, Boston Grasso and Grasso, we have both key conletters for them. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I remember the board. My name is Eva Jones, representing the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Regarding 10 amendments, please, our office differs from the board's judgment on this matter. A commuting process was conducted, including on a budget speeding, held on 5-225, that was attended by two community members who did not provide any feedback. The proposal was also reviewed by the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association about a year ago. The Civic Association expressed support at the time and did not wish to meet with the applicant again since the time had last. At this time, the student earns a Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Excuse me. The Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the first of the board's judgment on this matter, thank you, everybody for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisor that the project undergoes BPDI design review and pay special attention to the material and to the material of the exterior, given that this is the first kind of four-story within that block. Although we do see four-story, maybe two or three blocks down, it's important that the BPD does design review for this new four-story within this block. Third. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Is we low? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Max, you better browse up. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Mr. Chair, motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case 308-171-0785. The address is 221 against square. If the applicant can't be under the representative of President, we would explain to the board. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Patrick Swini. I'm going to turn you into 261 mainstream child's town. And I represent Kate and Rob Murphy, who was the owners of the Copy Gear 221 in square. We're here today, members of the board, to legalize a wanted, disdain, acting space. As you're looking at the plan now, you see wanting to strip this building on a morning school yet in morning school. There's been a current cut in the acting space back there for a lot of years. The audience brought the meeting at the time with this acting. However, they realized just recently that it was never legalized before this group. We've had no opposition. There's no work, no changes that necessary. And as I indicated, the entrance is well over 100 feet off when you're in square. Any questions from the board? Here is Madam President of the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. Sigi Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petition are completed, though. An S community process, a office oversight distribution of an informational flyer to each of butter and a 300 foot radius which solicited no comments to our office. With that background, our office deferred to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise hands? No, Madam Chair, we don't have any small comments. Would that be a motion? Most new proof. Is there a stand? There goes. Mr. Stanford, please. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Berberaza? Yes. Mr. Leivino? Yes. Chair Valencia, the motion carries. Thank you. The next case with the first, so we'll go on to case the away. 17238. 322 with the address of 1264th Street. The applicant and or the representative present with their quiz each point. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, for your members. My name is Daniel Brennan. I'm currently in the license consultant for Wunder in the Boston's Playa. I'm joined here with Jason Bacher, Associate Director from Wunder. I'm from the whole 43th chair of the presentation. I didn't realize our presentation slides didn't make it into the final year. I'm not sure if it's possible. We don't share screen. We don't share screen. Okay. So I'll just keep going on my description. Wunder, this is a new takeout restaurant proposed at 1264th St. Street. It's the bond builder and it will be our first generation tenant. Our space will be on the ground level next to the Hualagai and the Bay Top Chicken. Our space is mostly takeout. We'd have six seats at a stand-up counter. Because our square footage is just over 25 hundred square feet. The use is conditional and required for the pill relief. Our square footage is just over 3,000 square feet at 3,019 square feet. We do have, I'm sorry, we just got a split of the slums. So this is our layout here. It's just over 6,000 square feet on the horizontal and straight sides on the right. Maybe if I could turn it over to Jason now, just to give you a little bit of context of what Wunder is in the operation. Jason, you know, though. What's the other thing that has an analyst Jason the bought check? Is this D.C.L? Dad, do you see him? I'm looking for him right now. He's down in here. Yeah, he's in here. Yeah, he's there. Thank you. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Okay, great. Well, thank you guys for taking the time. What I'll do is I'll just give you a quick high level of who we are. Since we are a newcomer up in Boston. So Wunder is a new concept, a new QSR, and is forging its own path in the market. We approach the business quite differently in the industry, quite differently. What we do is we partner with chefs and restaurants from across the country and reproduce their cuisines using our production and our cooking techniques. When I say we partner with chefs and restaurants, that includes quite a few names. I think that you guys would be familiar with Bobby Flay, for example, Jose Andres, Michael Simon, or some of our named partners that we work with, include as well as best-in-class restaurants across any number of cuisines. So Tay Hasbariq, out of Texas, for example, Chai Pani, which is a work with Indian street food out of North Carolina. DeFarad pizza out of New York. I shouldn't mention New York. I don't know if it's in the Boston area. But what we do is reproduce, like I said, their cuisines using our techniques. And based on the R&D and the culinary engineering that we've put into our business, what we can do is place any number of different partners out of one retail location. Now this space in particular is about 3,000 square feet, 3,100 square feet, and a giver cake, which is why we're here, like Dan mentioned. If we were about 500 square feet smaller, this wouldn't have required a conditional use approval from the board. But given that we are here, excited to see, I wish I could share the rendering. So unfortunately, Dan, did you mention that you shot over the deck a few minutes ago? I didn't share it with Stephanie, but I don't know if it's all good. So what we are proposing here is a new retail storefront, essentially, for wonder. And this would be our first in Boston proper. Our front of house, like Dan mentioned, would include about six seats that are from three to two towns. And based on some of the comments we had received from the FCA, we, that stand-up counter that Dan had mentioned that we are going to convert to include a bar height seating for our patrons. Dan mentioned we are, to a certain extent, take out focused about 55% of our workers are delivery. The balance is either pick up or dine in. And this location on Boyleston is really the perfect type of site that we look for. For an urban location, it's close to the Bass Transit. Obviously, it's a growing and redeveloping neighborhood, which is great for us. And just really excited to get up at Boston. At this point, we're looking to open about 15 or so locations in the general Boston area in 2020, 2026. So this will hopefully be the first with your approval in Boston proper. Other questions from the board? One quick question, ma'am, Chair, sorry. I missed the statistic of what the percentage is for takeout. Can you say that again? So about 55% of orders are delivery in these urban markets, such as New York City or Boston. And about 45% of the balance would be either pick up or dine in. Okay, thank you. I have a question. So you said that the percentage of takeout delivery, do you plan to rely on, like, ask to deliver the food? Or are you going to do a end house? Yeah, so Wunder has its own app. And about 75% of our orders come through Wunder's proprietary app, but we are also available on third-party apps like Uber Eats or DoorDash or any number of third-party apps. Great, thank you. And also, do you have a plan to facilitate, like, delivery drivers or anything around New York? Yeah, so we have a number of ways that we can provide information, that's couriers specifically for those couriers that are associated with orders that come through the Wunder app. And that's all informational in terms of where they can pick up the most efficient way for them to pick up so that we can properly manage the curbside. And then beyond that, we have other needs of managing deliveries by delaying when orders get kicked out to third-party couriers or to any orders that will place through the Wunder app so that we can mitigate the number of couriers that are coming to the site at any given time. And do you have any, I'll pop up your head, do you have any, can you share with us any of the logistics around mitigating, like, the curbside there? Yeah, sure. So one of the needs that we are able to do that is limiting how many couriers get dispatched to a site at any given time. So we can cap the number that get brought to the site no matter how many orders we might have in queue. So that's one of the ways that we are able to do it. Furthermore, delay when an order gets sent out to a courier is another means. And so that couriers aren't queuing or waiting for the order to be ready. They don't get, it's not like some places in order it automatically gets sent out to a courier. And then they're getting to the location 15 minutes before it's ready for pickup. When we delay that order out to the courier, that means they're only arriving a few minutes ahead of that order being ready so that they're not, there's not excessive queuing or waiting for the order. Thank you. So I have to ask you what you mean by courier is that your in-house versus the third party apps? So either way they're all independent contractors. So whether it's ordered through the wonder app or directly through a third party app. So I just refer to all delivery drivers as couriers as standard practice. But when you say you can delay or take specific measures, who does that apply to the folks ordering through the wonder app or the other party? Sure. That would be 75% of orders that we get through the wonder app. So with that, the good thing is we've made some changes to our model from a business side where we've eliminated delivery fees for example. And this is a way for us to convert more customers to the wonder app. And so we expect that 75% to increase. Do we get introduced to new customers through third party apps? 100%. But we do a great job from a marketing and a brand perspective of converting them to ours. Thank you. And your location on goals that were exactly are you expecting people to queue up? Do you actually have any area or are they just stopping in front of goals and tree? Yeah. So there's several bike racks on boils in here. There is a bike lane right off the curb side. And given the projected water volumes here, we don't expect there to be excessive queuing, but they would not enter through the front. Can I hear from Mr. Hampton? Are you available? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. Jeff Anten, City of Boston, Plane, Parking. As you saw, we recommended denial about prejudice on this. You know, this was something, if this were an existing restaurant that was looking to take out, we'd be in support of it. Our major concern here is with the continuing Fenway Transpitation Access Point Action Plan, rather, ongoing in the amount of volume that this kind of use is going to generate. We have some serious concerns about traffic along boils in the street, especially queuing right there in front of the building. So for those reasons, we recommended denial of the oppressions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a question regarding your demographics. What's usually your demographics in regards to age? So we certainly don't discriminate that, for sure, but generally that's where the demographic is going to be on professionals out through, you know, more folks might. So, and then beyond. I mean, the only reason I ask is because you do have a large kind of residential building right there, and so I can see that as an amenity. You know, in regards to the five existing vacant commercial ground spaces, our rather C is based being occupied and continuing with the vacancies of the ground floor. In regards to congestion, I don't think a business should be kind of punished for our larger infrastructure issues that the city is facing. I think there needs to be improvement there. And, you know, there are a lot of professionals around the area, so I can see this being kind of an asset. And I think Boston should be in welcoming place for entrepreneurship and kind of successful models. That's my feedback. Thanks. Thank you. And if the board would allow, I have a few additional comments to follow up on that. So, we do limit 14. Excuse me. Please be brief. Sure. So yeah, we do limit our delivery greatest to really 12 to 15 minutes, which means we're not servicing the entirety of Boston or the out of this location. We will have other locations either just outside of the city proper or within Boston itself. And beyond that, we can't control why we can't control the type of vehicle that couriers use in this type of environment with the available infrastructure that the city is putting place for bikes. We expect that it wouldn't necessarily be the regular couriers. It would be like so in terms of congestion. I don't really foresee that being an issue. And then water volumes. I know there's there's some hangover from some from some applications that have come through the board in the past. Our water volumes are certainly not going to be anything that would be intrusive in this case. Can I just ask one other question? How many are you with would you be employing in, you know, in the city of Boston or Massachusetts in regards to staffing? So for each location general hiring isn't it anywhere from 30 to 40 employees. During peak, we would see about 13 employees onsite. And that doesn't include any third party couriers or independent contractors. Thank you. Just once again, what about it? You know what our sort of operation? So we provide lunch and dinner service so we open about 10 30 in the morning and close at about 10 at night. Thank you. That may have public custom morning. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. So you're also with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the community process. And as a result of the finance and community process, the mayor's office of neighborhood services is opposed to this application. Our office assistant and the butter's meeting on May 29th, which no comments were made. The Fenway Civic Association has the active civic group in this area. They're opposed to the application due to the ghost kitchen like operation with limited focus on dining. As evidence by the small amount of square footage devoted to in store dining, despite its high foot traffic location. The location is in a part of the oil street that experiences high traffic gridlock due to the direct proximity to Fenway Park. And a concept that is based primarily on utilizing delivery couriers will exacerbate this issue. Our office shares these concerns and ONS judges the board to divide its conditional use permit. Thank you. Thank you. We have the jetty. Please. How you doing? I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. I'm doing well. The bill as the bill as always. Getせて together. Getせて together. Get yourselves together. Get yourselves together. Get yourselves together. And so PuisG. Get yourselves together. He's aарoute. And so PuisG. He supports his new offering as well. When relationship finishes, Questions andира Turner, Questions andира Turner, Questions and gia Turner, Lots of supporters. Awards of moderately aulq and d e Awards of moderately aulq. Awards of moderately aulq. Awards of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. Event of moderately aulq. I think the BPAs write that this will cause adverse traffic impacts. I think it's due largely to the model of this business. It's kind of focused on delivery, high turnover, the production, the delivery model, which just makes me think this isn't the right location for this type of use, but perhaps they could find somewhere else in the city. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. This will be well. Yes. Mr. Romancea. How could it work? No, because my main only is that any business that comes to the area, any business that uses that space is going to create a traffic impact. And I think this is for the city to create a traffic study that improves traffic in the area, not for one individual business to assume the consequences of this. Any business that's coming to the location is going to create an impact. I don't think this is for the business owner to solve the traffic problem in the area, it's for the city to create a traffic plan that improves traffic for every one in the area. So, the version that I will vote no. Mr. Ram. I'm going to vote no. Mr. Parvasa. I won't know for the reasons that Mr. Valencia just quoted. And I do think with the struggles of the business and downtown area, this would be a welcoming kind of opportunity to turn that vacancy to occupations of the ground floor. Thanks. Mr. Aion. Yes. The chair votes no, but the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. No. Mr. Vazio. Yes. Mr. Tiner. Yes. Mr. Vazio. Yes. Mr. Lano. Oh. The chair votes no, the motion does not carry. We are at a stalemate. Is Caroline here? Yes. Madam Chair, you could either give motion to defer or a motion for tonight on this point. Okay. Is there another motion? Motion to defer. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Tiner. Yes. Mr. Vazio. It's better for us now. Before I vote, I just want clarity. Is the motion to defer to come back at a later time? Correct. For us to vote on the same issues. So you're thinking that you're going to have a different outcome just because of potentially different warm members sitting on the board. Is that the possibility? That's the possibility otherwise it's a denial and they have to wait another year to try again. It's at the discussion of the work. Is it just yes? Thank you. I'm going to say no to defer. Let me ask you a question. In this case, can the proponent make changes before they come back or they have to come back with the same proposal? No, so they could make changes and come back if they prefer. But if it was denied, they'd have to wait another year. Okay. Mr. Ion. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Do we have a date Stephanie? You can do a lot further 7-12-28. Does the applicant have a preference? Of the 7. Okay. We'll see you then. Can we make a recommendation to the applicant that what you heard in terms of the concerns that you come before us with new information, new support, talk to BTD? Thanks. Good question. Ion, maybe perhaps consider more seating inside? Absolutely. Great point Katie. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case of the OA, 166-0636. With the address of 2.0-2 West Burshtreet. If the applicant and the representative of the present will they please explain case of the board? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanksיע. See you soon. Have a seat. Have a seat. Have a seat. Have a seats. Have a seat. Have a seat. Have a seat. HEARTBOOK Heartbly just taken your seat. Bonnie cost a wee. Awesome. Heartbly sheartbly up on the roll. Everybody save the roll. 25 enrolled souvenir school.vere for that story. von der Welt. Wichon Wisaam. Is there a place where all met her? and was called Sarah Moj Refutten? concerned were raised about the outdoor aspects of the proposed use related to noise and well-for-size and capacity of the restaurant associated noise issues. There was also concern about the potential exposure of pollutants due to the historical use of the site as an industrial parcel. The meeting was lightly attended. The St. Vincent's neighborhood association was the active civic group in Syria, which shows to take no position on the proposal. With that background, our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. The council will likely to go on record and support based on a good community process and work with neighbors and civic organizations. Here we respectfully ask that the recording continue to work closely. The South Boston Community on any quality of life and neighborhood concerns. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Would that have motion? Motion to approve. Now the second. This is time for each. Yep. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yeah. Mr. Brause. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Chair Mox. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have the case of the OA 167-6246 with the address 598-R-E7. Is the applicant and do the representative first? They put the splines in the board. Yes. St. Vincent's neighborhood. Madam Chair, members of the board. In the three variants, it's with batters and maranasi. Business address of 168-H Street First Law, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Rachel Woods, and as well as the project architect Jacob Levine. This proposal sees the combined two parcels change occupancy from a single family dwelling to a three family building by way of a rare vertical addition on a newly created lot of a approximately 3,154 square feet. The lot requires relief and sufficient additional lot area that the code requires 4,000 square feet on with this unit count. However, the proposed lot area is consistent with the negligence character that there are many other properties in this area with similar lots that surpass those lot requirements. This proposal falls within an MF-5 sub district. Madam Ambassador, if I could direct your attention to page 81.0 of the drawings. Back one. Yes. Right there. Thank you. The existing structural will contain unit number one. Which will be a by-level approximately 1300 square feet of three bedroom units. Two and three will be located within the addition unit two located on the first floor being a two bedroom containing approximately one thousand fifteen square feet unit three will be located on the second floor being a two bedroom containing approximately 1110 square feet. We have additional violations for a front yard setback five feet is required by the code. The existing front yard is zero feet and the proposed addition has a front yard of approximately 4.2 feet which is an expansion of a pre-existing non-conformity. We have a rear yard setback violation. The rear yard requirement is 15 feet as this proposal falls within the shallow lot exception. The existing rear yard is approximately two feet and the proposed addition has a rear yard of 3.2 feet which is also an expansion of a pre-existing non-conformity. We've also very familiar with the planning department's recommendation and again if this was approved of this rear yard setback could be looked at viewed during design review. We further have an off-treet parking violation. The proposal is aligned with the mayor's initiative of reducing dependency on private vehicles as this proposal does not provide any parking. Further it is a two-minute walk to a bus stop and aligned with the bus and transportation department's parking maximum ratio guidelines for the sake of it. Location of the main entrance is another violation since the location of the main entrance is facing the side lot line we've been cited for this dimensional relief however this is also a pre-existing entry. In concluding this proposal will contribute to the city's goals for increased housing production and also enhance the life safety of the structure of the building will be fully sprinkled and again this proposal is consistent with the planning departments' recommendation of approval. At this point Madam Chair I'm going to turn it over for any questions or comments. Thank you. So can you clarify with me are there any other buildings in that vicinity similar situation? Yes so it is a very common to have buildings that are that are landlocked and do have accessway to now passageways. Again it's nothing that's not consistent with the neighborhood and I believe the planning departments' recommendation even highlights that as such as well. But can you name one that's there by? I don't have any specific addresses but you know growing up in self-gloss and in the area of every familiar that I've seen certain circumstances. I recently had one that was very similar approved to this probably within the last two years by this board as well and that was on the other side of East Broadway. Are there other questions from the board? Yes I have a question. Can you just walk us through with the backyard looking like? I'm sure that would be on the site plan so that's going to go up a little bit further. So Jacob is here as well. Jacob I believe he should be escalated as a panelist on the St. St. Haas. Good afternoon board my name is Jacob Levain on the project architect for the project and I'd be happy to kind of walk you through and help answer some questions if you could go to the second page of the PDF. And on the right side there is our certified pop-up. So you know it's an L shaped lot so it's a little bit unique. What you see on the left side is essentially the existing house but we're keeping in that same layout so there's primarily how I call almost a front yard there and then the building that you see attached is our new proposal so we get a side yard over if you want to cut the rear yard there and almost 10 feet it's not an half feet on the right side and then the existing house is really tight on the north side back we're actually jogging in the new addition to a lot a little bit more room to work around but a majority of the landscaping area would be in the front of the existing house as it stays today and then on the right side plan right of the proposed addition so that's essentially how the pot plan and the site plan work yet and again Mr. Teran if the this also could be further reviewed during design review we'll be increasing those setbacks as well. You know other other questions from the board? Terry, not in that public testimony? Madam Chair and Board members, Cigi Jonsi with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this petitioner concluded the OIS community process. Our office was in a butters meeting on December 19th of 2024 where nine of butters expressed opposition to the proposal due to lack of parking and density relating to the number of proposed bedrooms. A butters felt that the jump in density was too extreme for a single family home and was not contextual. The office says received two letters of opposition that have been forwarded to the board. The Gate of Heaven Neighborhood Association is the active civic group in this area proposal was presented to them and their membership voted to oppose. The background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Laura here I forgot to mention my name and the previous comment. Please no council, thanks and a position letter to the board yesterday. Due to the concerns of public safety for neighbors and any butters throughout the community process. Neighbors highlighted the difficulties for first responders to ask those aside in the event of unamirednessy. Due to it being located down in narrow alleyway in between residues on E7 street and E6 street. Even the inability of first responders to reach the site there are potential public safety issues and risk for new residents and existing properties nearby on E7 and E6. Council of flame respectfully request that the board take this public concerns seriously and be nice proposal and request the Sonial leave. Thank you. Senator Collins office. Good morning. Thank you Chair and Members of the Board. Brian Hurley here on behalf of Senator. At Collins office we wish to state for the record our strong opposition to the proposed project at 598 Rare E7 over the past several weeks and months. We have heard from neighbors and butters who are deeply concerned about the impact this proposal would have on the character safety and quality of life in the community. We have seen numerous calls and emails and residents expressing these concerns and petition opposing the project has been signed by more than 100 members of this community. As for these reasons we wish to be on record in support of the neighbors and the butters position in opposition of this project. Thank you. We have in pelton please. Hello there. I'm hoping that can be heard. Thank you very very much. I am in a butter. You name it. Excuse me? You name it and your address please. Oh okay. Margaret Pelton. I'm in a butter I live in 604 East 7th Street and we submitted not only the signatures but I also submitted in a PDF file really outlining the compressed area of where Mr. Woods would like to extend on to the home. His legal address is 598R. That is a three foot passage which I did outline in my PDF that I submitted that is between 596 and 598. A big gap that you might see belongs to my neighbor which is 602 and that is his driveway. So Mr. Woods has no legal access according to our deeds. Let's say he has a right to come up that driveway and it's I'm hoping you've reviewed behind our homes of 602 to 614. There is an eight foot passageway. Now that eight foot passageway we all own eight feet from our back gates to the three lots that are back there. That is all ours. It is not a free man land back there and when during the community meetings we ask how are you going to get trumps back there? How are you going to get any excavators things like that and we were told oh we'll carry them in water block that over one three feet. Yes we understand that house has been there for a very long time as mine has also but are we actually going to bring more issues with fire safety things like that. So I just you know we outlined it in the emails that we sent and of course our picture book that we submitted and we are asking for the committee to please look at this very very seriously and appreciate the time that you're going to thank you now. So that's a great segue. Can the applicant kind of talk through yeah because I was looking to figure out where you actually accessing on the left or the right. Yes thank you madam chair. So I just I just want to clear up a couple of things. So there is a there's a passageway on the left hand side that we have full legal access that's described in all the deeds and there's the one that it's pelton speaking about as an eight foot passageway. So just want to clarify a couple of things you know it becomes more of a legal issue when discussing this is that does the applicant have any sort of legal rights or any sort of necessity by an easement. And the question is again that becomes more of a legal dispute which is discussed about as her neighbor's parking and despite the fact that it may be within a deed there is no legal use of premises to allow for that parking spot on record with its special services department. So again there is no legal right for that applicant to even have his parking despite again what's what's registered in the deed. What I also want to hit is I know a lot of the issues that we heard it's more or less about public safety again if this project is approved there isn't it I just want to highlight again just a reminder right there isn't existing single family structure there that's that's being preserved as far as life safety enhancements this building in the in the existing structure will be fully sprinkled right which again will provide you know better life enhancements safety protections there and then what I also lastly have to mention I'm sure Mr. Senbrich can confirm we do have letters of support that were submitted in one being from one of the immediate direct providers from 590 1677 as well so again I'm gonna put it back over you now Chair. So sorry another question so which how are those residents accessing their unit are they walking through the left side that you said that's correct. Are we yes yes currently used. Are there questions any other questions from yes I have. How are you going to provide access to that rear lot to construction vehicles. So I mean that's a good question of getting that back there again you know there is policies with the city of Boston that allow you to cross over neighbors properties in order to do it and again you have access from your neighbors to to do that. Again that would if if approved that that would have to be a conversation that they would have to have together and again it apply comprehensive construction management plan will have to be submitted to the special service of department and approved prior to any sort of construction being performed. Yeah we typically need approval from your neighbors to cross your yard. Not necessarily there there are ordinances with the city of Boston and then needs a necessity that they allow you to access it and again proper insurance limits will have to be required to be pulled on these properties. In fact it is the image at all its level that would have to restore to its original condition or in a much better condition. Do you have support from your director of butters so you have. That's what it is you heard some some of the director of butters today in an opposition again and there has been letters I'll show you the stem bridge can confirm those letters that were sent in through directly from these neighbors I don't quite show how many because I didn't have. You don't have it on record. I did a director of butters who will support the project and so I can tell you right now 594 because I've seen that letter 594 through 596 which the same owner has submitted a letter of support on there that I'm sure again Mr. Stembridge you know establish that there is that hasn't received to it. All right any other questions from the board? Valemotion? Hi there. I'm looking for a motion from the board. I'm not sure I like to put forward motion approval maybe it will be from the planning department. Special attention to design of the budget. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ranzio. Yes. Mr. Taran. I'm. Yes. Mr. Taran. I'm. Yes. Mr. Taran. I'm going to vote now due to the high numbers of opposition of the neighbors. And also due to the major impact that it would have on neighbors to access the site for construction. Mr. Lano. I'm going to vote now. Here also votes no the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? I'm sure I like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. Yes. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ranzio. Yes. Mr. Ranzio. Yes. Mr. Taran. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Langel. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case 081672787. But the address of 72 button was agreed. If the applicant can't or the representative of present, please explain to the board. Any one here from 72 button would please return. There is an indeed. I think this is your case. Which is in to be an invitation. Hello welcome. Welcome. Welcome. Please meet everyone. No. Motion. Hey, welcome. Sorry. Good morning. I'm Indi Alvarez. I'm here with Abraham Alvarez. And we were hoping for our architect to be here with us today. And he had a personal and medical emergency. We could go through the community process. And we went through the process that was supposed to make it. That's fine. So it would not be worth the answer. If you had any specific questions, because we're not architects. But we were hoping to see, I don't know. I should know the process. I don't know because I haven't been nice for so long. But we like to postpone for another day that our architect would be here to answer questions. But we did. We're all in a certain process. I got approval from the community. And we have the name. We will receive later. If we were allowed to proceed, I would like to proceed. But I was given the report that I would be able to answer specific. Right. You can proceed. But knowing if you can answer those questions, then that just may be challenging for you. So it's up to you. I'll proceed. Because we've been going through this. We will hire as a general contractor. So I'm a little bit nervous, but. No. No worries. So please remember to proceed. and just walk the student plan. You don't have to help them. So then I will have an Abraham, those are mine under archery. Abraham, which is of a view, sorry. So right now the property is located, as seen in 72-year-old, what if it is on the corner lot, is currently a two-family property. And the owner is proposed to add a one-bedroom house and a one-room apartment is very close to the train station and what happens, it won't be in the Soviet parking in the location. And there are currently, we're looking for variants on what different areas of the building size. The open, hopeless-based size is side yard and backyard. You currently don't have the necessary requirements. We're hoping to get various on this. I am not necessarily, we went through the community process at a Quarment Civic Association and we had support for most approved community process. There was some concerns about parking or traffic and we had a mention that there would be no parking, but then we were close to the train station. The owner would make the necessary changes that they would need to do any changes, but it is a very small property and she just wanted it to go on to a larger one, and usually the background person and that's not nervous, but as you look at it, it's not actually, I'm going to ask the contractor, the licensed contractor was on Abraham, everyone into the train, the class, if you could hear me, I hope you can hear me because I see him. Really sorry about the mess. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. The plan is pretty straightforward. We're doing an addition, it's right now and two families, one to one, the partner and the first floor and another one, the second floor, how we're doing an addition in a bad level. This floor is going to be the location, selection, liberal, the partner, how bad, all the second floor is going to be one bedroom. We want to check the elevation between the house and front, where we had it, it's going to be consistent with the architectural existence, the only thing is the violation that we have to look for in common to the first floor, the desire and the plan supposed to be and the fifth floor, and now we have 10 feet. Right now. Under the side, we got a right and a bit. We got, 10 feet, we got to fit the top floor, four feet. Are there questions from the board? There's the open space requires a question from them. The access to questions from the board. Okay. Okay. Can I have a, I'm sorry, this is not right. What type of facilities we got there, based on the spatial basement space, or how well we told the students to give it some depends on the addition. Well, the, the utility is going to be iron through the existing utility, don't you know, like the external front of the exit, utility where we are. Yes, the, the, the, the system will be out. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? In one of Madame Chair and members of the board, my name is Emma Jones, our percenting appearance officer, neighborhood citizens for guiding somebody to button what are office to first support the judgment on this matter. The community process was conducted, including on a button's meeting held on two, 10, 25 and ended by three community members. The feedback from this meeting was so concerned about how the proposal will impact the existing traffic problem and the neighborhood density as well. Additionally, we did not receive any letters of support or opposition regarding the proposal, and it was also reviewed by the McCormick Civic Association on 6, 11, 25. At this point, the mayor's office and neighborhood services, the first reports, Jeff, and I'm expanding. Thank you, everyone. For your time consideration. Hello, Madame Chair, I'm the board and the members of the council. So, I was office, thoughts, what are your records for this proposal? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Madame Chair, we have a additional comments. Would that be an option? I'm sure I would like to go forward and motion the approval. I have a second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Arnard. Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Mr. Hano. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. The buck. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, we have a question. The bill is 11 o'clock. So, we will ask at this time if there are any requests for withdrawing the bill from the 11 o'clock AM model. Can I speak on a deferral? Yes. Can you give the address? Sure. 571 B. Washington Street. It's number 172-5055. Here on behalf of Rebecca Rootenberg, and we'd like to defer to the next meeting. Okay. So, what we're talking about is in case the 08172-5055, the address was 571 B. Washington Street. You good at it, my pleasure. We're just asking to defer to the next meeting. Or what reason, can you? We have to go, the expense of an operation. We have to get that approval from the cannabis board and rather than have two meetings and waste your time on two different meetings, we can just accomplish it all with the next meeting. If that's, that would be the preferred way of doing it. Stephanie, what's the bill? How long do they take? If you have on August 26th, you can do it. October 7 to October 28. I think August 26th should be fine. Madame motion. Motion to defer to August 26th. Is there a second? Okay. Madame. Mr. Steadbridge. Yes. Ms. Lee Welwell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Mr. Lionel. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Are there any one of the questions for which was draw or the phone? Oh, 33. Thank you. Mr. Secretary. No, I'm sorry. What was that? 33. Thank you. Thank you. The bill wasn't it? Well, that would be 4K-3O8. 161-373-8. 173-8. You're need to read the press of that. Do you go ahead and explain? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The morning, Madame, GM members of the bill, my name is GX-686. I'm in contact with the business address of 10 balls road and brain drink. We're requesting a brief deferral. So that we may go back and regroup with the inviteers. We'd like to provide some more letters of support and direct a bonus support to the board with the bills that request a very brief deferral so we may do that and be back fully. Stephanie. Do you want to sit on the 23rd October 7th on October 28th? It's at the 23rd, it's perfect. And we'll motion. Motion should be fine until the 23rd. The second. So I take up. Mr. Stauperich. Yeah. So we will. Yes. Mr. Onsia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Langwell. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Pete. But once you get more last, there are any requests for withdrawal of the girls from 11th, 11th, 11th, 8th, 11th, 8th, 11th. Hearing none, we will go back to 930. The next case on the list has been deferred so that will take us to case B.O.A. 172-1513. The address of 766-162 Adams Street. It's the applicant's and the one that represent the president. And they'll please the slide to the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stauperich. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with the Adams and Marancy, business address of 168-8th Street, first floor, self-boston. I'm here on behalf of the owner and indicate restaurant group LLC doing businesses, the allows these restaurants. The polls will propose what are in front of us today is seeking to add library to the team at after 1030 to its current occupancy. This restaurant has been a staple in the Adams Village neighborhood of Dua Chesta for many years. The owner has been pulling one day into the team in license with the licensing board for live entertainment after 1030 PM for almost two years with no issues with the city of Boston. In fact, the operator has a stellar reputation within this community. The live entertainment after 1030 PM is a forbidden use in the sub-district, but will not be any different from any of the other restaurants live at the team in the neighborhood. And that's really this simple proposal that we have in front of us. I'm going to turn it over. Nothing else in the operations is changing in this business. I'm going to turn it back over to Madam Chair for any questions and comments. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? We are not in the office of the testimony. Madam Chair, I remember the department name is Emma Jones. I represent the mayor of the neighborhood services. We're running 756 to 762 Adams Street. Our office is the first of the boards just been on this matter. The community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting on 6th, 425. That was not intended by any constituents. The feedback from the speedy was minor and the proposal was connected with the local civic association. And they did receive full support regarding the proposal after some collaboration on the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Hello Madam Chair, Madam Board and lay in reinvesting count of the controls. We're going to go on record to board this proposal. Thank you. All right. Next we hand to me, DeLarvie. Morning Madam Chair, Madam Board, and the majority from City Council Aaron Murphy's office. The council would like to go on record in support of the application. Thank you. Thank you. Without we don't have any familiar comments at the moment. Okay, would that be a motion? Madam Chair. Madam Chair, we are ordered a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Brazza? Yes. Mr. Lino? Yes. Chair Valencia? Yes. Mr. Carrey's motion carries. Thank you. Next we have a case to be obey. 169-9703 with the address of 1700 Roaches Ravinov. If the applicant is in through a representative of present. Would they please respond to the court? No. You can't. No. You're right, ma'am. Excuse the noise. No, ma'am. 1700 Roaches Ravinov. Okay, we're brought. We'll return to that. With that, we'll roll on to case B-O-A, 170-09-5-1 with the address of 94 wild cherries. The applicant is in through a representative of present. This case is good. I'm voting Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Ivan Hernandez. I'm at 111 Baker Street in West Rocksbury. This proposal was for a single story edition at the rear of an existing single family. Residents in West Rocksbury. The proposal is pretty straightforward. If we move over to the plan stay, you have existing conditions on A4 here, which shows the first floor of the single family with an existing deck on the rear of the house. That would be the location of the proposed edition. Every one to the proposed floor plans that's actually the second and the level. Those are existing elevations. If you continue to the couple more pages, that's actually proposed foundation. This is the proposed floor plan right there. Thank you very much. As I said, the proposal is for your edition to the existing first floor single story. The skin system is 675 square feet of area being added. We're proposing the building of the edition to be as 13 foot 10 inches in height. There will be a single family residence and there will be a pretty much no changes. We have a couple of violations, whether we are set back and side yard setbacks, violations, which we would like to get approval on the board. I will pin out on 20 questions you may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Erin, that's me. I have a question for you. Madam Chair and board members, Stiggy Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The staff members are completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted a new button meeting on May 21st of this year, which no concerns were raised. The petitioner presented to the west broads green neighborhood council which voted to support this application. That background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reasons? We don't have a dictionary of comments from this project. May I have a motion? Yes. I have a motion to approve. May I have a second? Thank you. This is the front branch. Yes. This we roll? Yes. Mr. Gonsia? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Betapraso? Yes. Mr. Aungam? Yes. Chair votes? Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Yes. We have a Q417, 17002. Mr. Avenu? I think she's the owner of the case that it was passed. Well, we're... Go ahead Mr. Stavrich. If you want to keep going forward or circle back? Let's go forward and circle back. Okay. Next we have case of the year away, 1700386. With the address of 26 dollars present circuit, the Apple Kent and all the representant of the present, with the proof of time. Hello, I'm a representative for our 26th cruise in circuits and we like to have a different ferry of the dates in the future because we do need to have more clarified with documents. So you're seeking the deferral now? That's correct. Stephanie? September 23rd, October 7th, October 28th. October 7th, good time. Thank you. May I have a motion? Yes, sir. Mr. Stavrich? Yes. Mr. Roncea? Yes. Mr. Turner. Mr. Turner? Okay, sorry about the injury. Mr. Barrasa? Yes. Mr. Lionel? Yes. Mr. Roncea? Yes. Mr. Turner. Mr. Turner? Okay, sorry about the injury. Mr. Barrasa? Yes. Mr. Lionel? Yes. Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Motion carries. So now we will return to the next cruise. Yes. Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Motion carries. So now we will return to the case for 1,700 Doreshastraa, which is the case of B.O.A. 169-970. Again, the address of 1,700 Doreshastraa. It's the applicant's and what they represent of the present. You put it in the slide. June in jam. This is your turn. This is your case. I don't know what's going on. She's on mute now. Can the applicant for 1,700 Doreshastraa? Yes. Can you unmute yourself? Yes. You can, mate. Now we can, yes. Yes, my name is Gil Wilson. I have a 1,700 Doreshastraa. The B.A.O.A. is 1,600 Doreshastraa. My privilege is to forward to the occupancy from the office of the Jubalty. That will form the foundation of the service area, the city rock and good panel to finish. I have done all the meeting and the better from the last few months. If you're speaking or we can't hear you. Yes, I'm done. Okay. Other questions from the board? Mayor of public testimony? I'm chair members of the board. My name is Evie Jones. I'm representing the Mayor's Office of New Bruns Services. We're currently at 1,700 Doreshastraa. Our office differs from the board's judgment on this matter. The community process was conducted, including a butter skating on 4,30,25. The proposal was also reviewed with the St. Mark's area and civic association. Their meeting was on 5,27,25. The association expressed support. As expressed, the applicant worked collaboratively with the association and provided an email detailing support that was submitted to the board. At this time, the Mayor's Office of New Bruns Services differs from the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone. Hello, Madam Chairments. Board of the Enraged Management Council. The sales office is on the board. Thank you. Chair, we know. Oh, we know how the decision was made. Was that the air motion? I'm chairing the motion from up to 1. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. As we all. Yes. Mr. Volanzio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. It's better by how's that? Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. So, what's that? That will move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. For last, again, if there are any requests from the draws or the draws, what's the front of the draws or the draws from this time frame? So, we will move on to case B.O.A. 170-5492. With the address of 274-276 Summars Street, if the applicant can't go with the representative of the present, if they put the plan case through the board. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. My name is Dan Scali. I'm the homeowner. I live at 276 Summars Street, apartment 3 in East Boston. Its proposal is to have a rooftop deck. We've worked with I.C. Hand in hand to address any concerns, including a data block, to only allow for top unit access for my unit. It's keeping a character with the neighborhood. There's several neighboring properties that also have roof decks. That may answer any questions. They have a contractor, D.H.I. So, here, to answer questions. Questions from the board? Here at Nudman, public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Emma Johns, representing the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Regarding 274-276 Summars Street, our office differs from board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including an above-risk meeting held on board 2425, attended by one community member that was in full support and also expressed that all of the neighbors were also in full support of the proposal. It was also reviewed by the Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association on 61625. At this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services differed from board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone. For your time in consideration. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Emma Slywood, my name is Oli, and I'm with Council of Colledys, the part of office. The council would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional opponents. That may have motion. The motion of the proposed motion, all thanks. Is that a second? Is that, Kim? Mr. Staphrich. Yes. Ms. Mielow. Yes. Mr. Rozia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Lino. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have cases of the OA, on 731-977, with the address of 335-347, Paris, and Amnibut. If the applicant enters the representative of the president, they include the money. Good morning, Secretary Sembrich, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Dennis Clilty, attorney representing the applicant, who is for you this morning. With me is Jefferson McLean, who is the manager and part owner of the establishment. This is an existing restaurant in the south end in the Infloc neighborhood called Shirley. It's been over in operation since 2018 with no issues of violations or other such matters with the city agencies. The application is to allow a live entertainment at this location in place of a series of one-time entertainment licenses, which the applicant has been granted over the last couple of years. Just to cite this for you, the restaurant is located on Harris Avenue, beneath the CVS in the Infloc, which is a very large CVS operating, which provides a great buffer between the restaurant space and the other uses above in the building. We've had, as I said, these one-day applications. We've had no complaints from building or tenants. We run a very good restaurant. They run across the street, Tharnwood Sanna. They run the Black Lamb in the south end, Fino Pizza in Great neighborhood, and no relation as well. They were very high quality operators. We had an ONS, a meeting on July 25th. We also met with these Berkeley neighborhood associations and I'm informed there was a layer of support from their organization on file. We are happy or stands for any new questions that I hear this morning. Thank you very much. And that's the only change, by the way, the other change, the operation is the hours or any substance. The acid is said, and the other change is. Can you just clarify, so the one-day licenses that you've received, what's the closing, or the end time kind of? The licensing has a 2am closing hour for food and beverage. So any licenses that they were granted were given that same closing hour? And is that what you're seeking now? By rental treatment until 2am? Yes, ma'am. The same as we've been utilizing it under the one-days for, you know, as I said probably for a couple of years. And the questions are in the corner. Just kind of modifications. It seems like the BPD will like a serving plot plan, but I'm not sure if I understood that correctly, because I was noted that they will like a revised site plan to be submitted to BPD. So perhaps if Jack can clarify. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hansen, the city boss and planning department. Unfortunately, I don't even think they needed to be here. This is part of the PDA in the South End, specifically PDA number 98. This use is allowed. So what they're probably going to have to do is just submit a new plot plan. I mean, what's there already so that we can stamp it just so that it's consistent with the PDA. The attorney quality of the problem, we get a letter from ISD, you know, or information requested letter because it is in the PDA. It won't just have to stamp it. We have a stamp that will state that it's consistent with the PDA. So that will probably have to happen. Unfortunately, they probably had a few months where they didn't have to be here. I'll be honest with you. And if I could, Madam Chair, the same thing is happening with the next case at 47 Jersey Street. It is also part of the PDA. It's part of the Fenway corners of West PDA where, again, they didn't have to come before this board. It's in a lot of use on the development plan. So they'll have to go through the same process through ISD for the organization letter. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. So they'll have to go through the same process. OK, do we have support? Let me make a provides or whichever way you'd like. It won't be of any to the immediate. Great, thank you. Thank you. Would that may have public testimony? Hello Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Evan Jones. We're representing the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. We're running 335 to 347 years in AB. Our office differs to the board's children on this matter. A community process was conducted including in a butters meeting on 625-25, and that was attended by two community members was some concerned about the use of the public space of the public space in the building were raised, but after answering the constituents' questions, all concerns were a spage. The proposal was also reviewed by the East Berkeley Street Neighborhood Association and they have expressed support regarding this proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of the Neighborhood Services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Hello, Madam Chairman, this is the board, Liam Rayman, Councilor Patel, the office is like going records to support this proposal. Thank you. Excellent. Madam Chair, we don't have a position on comments. So that may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval for the supervisor that the applicant puts forth a spot plan, a site plan, to be submitted to BPD so that they can issue the certificate of consistency. There's a second? Second again. Mr. Stammerich. Yes. Let's be wrong. Yes. Mr. Lutzia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. It's better brought up. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair Monskess, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA, 1709303, with the address of 47 Jersey Street, is the applicant to the other representative. President, today, we further explain. Ben Jersey Street. Shall we return to the other representative? Once again, let me see if the person is here. Hello. Hello, I just sent it. Yeah, it's here. Okay. Are you the applicant for 47 Jersey? I don't think that's the applicant. I don't think it's the applicant. Okay, so let's keep going. Hello. Hello. Are you the applicant for 47 Jersey? I'm the owner. I'm not gay. Are you resenting? I'll have to present because the owner of this rush is in the hospital. I'm the, I'm sorry, the applicant is in the hospital right now. And I wasn't prepared for this, but I'm here right now. And you can just quickly walk us through it. Just state your name and address for the record and what you're proposing. Yeah, my name is Robert the Angela. It's a very important Jersey Street. We've been the owner of this property for over 50 years. And during ball games, the applicant steps up a lot of location. I think the previous man was talking about it's a PDA. And I don't know if we have to be here for this meeting, but again, I'm just thrown a little there because the applicant's in the hospital right now. I don't know if he had a lawyer being present for this or not. So this kind of hit me off guard, but it's our property. We own, we own from Van Ness to Brooklyn, I'm in on Jersey Street. The name of the company is Twin Zadapras. And again, my name is Robert the Angela. We've been on this neighborhood for over 50 years. And why is he proposing briefly? Well, what is he just proposing? He's just proposing picnic tables in our loading dock. And again, I think it's a formality, but again, this is not my job to judge. But again, I think that this with a PDA, I think it's approved already. But again, I haven't been able to speak to the R. In the applicant because again, he's rushed to the hospital. Okay. Thank you. So I don't know what else to tell you. I didn't know if I should have presented a deferral, but because I thought it was a PDA, with this was just a formality. Let's just move forward. We'll just move forward. Are there any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board members. Ziggy Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. This application is consistent with the applicants, longstanding use of this location of, as a concessionaire in our office, is unaware of any community concerns, in light of operators, long history, as a good operator, ONS, which is to express our support for this application. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Okay, that may have a motion. I'd like to make a motion to approve. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valensky. Yes. Mr. Turner. House. Is better Brazil? Yeah. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chairman, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. We've reached the 1130 hour. So at this point, we will ask if there is any request for control from the 12th from the 1130 hour. You are a none overturned to the 11AM cases. We can go to case 08, 1100, 938, the address was 6th, give you a place. If the applicant and for the representative, the person, they could play. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with Adam Zomeranzi, Business Adress 168H Street, first floor, so Boston, joining me today is the applicant Anthony Monahan in the project architect, Professor Zaberson. This is a proposal to combine two lots, change occupancy from three to four residential units by way of an addition. One lot contains an existing three family, and the other lot is a vacant that will contain the ground floor garage. This proposal falls within a multi-family residential sub-district. The new lot will consist of approximately 2,962 square feet. Property is located three blocks away from Andrew Square train station. The lot will require relief for insufficient additional lot area as the code requires 5,000 square feet. However, this proposed lot area is consistent with the neighborhood's character that there are many other properties in this area with similar lots that surpass those lot requirements. Further, the erection of a multi-family dwelling is in line with the planning goals of 2030, while increasing the city's housing stock along areas and service by turns it. If I can direct your attention, Madam Ambassador to page A101, the existing structure will now contain unit number one which will consist of a three bedroom. Basement will contain an office space, a bonus room, and an office. And again, an office. First floor will contain a living room in a kitchen. Second floor will contain two bedrooms, bathroom in a laundry room. Third floor will contain the master bedroom and bathroom. Ground floor at the addition will consist of parking for three vehicles, full-size spaces. Level two and level three will consist of three by level, and three bedroom units. We have additional violations from the Florida ratio. We're proposing a 2.13 and a 2.0 is compliant. The proposed density aligns with the goals outlined in the planning context of allowing more density within transient oriented neighborhoods. Front yard violation, side yard violation, rail yard violation as well. The minimum front yard is five feet. Minimum rail yard is 15 feet under the shallow lot exception to the code. And the minimum side yard is three feet. The current front yard is three feet and this would extend that violation to the addition. The current side yard on eight different places, one feet, four point five inches. They're raised out of five feet. And again, but these conditions are very similar to this crowning context. We have an insufficient parking. Code requires 1.5 parking spaces per new unit. And this proposal calls for three total ground floor spaces, which is aligned with the addition of reducing dependency on private vehicles. We have an open space violation. Code requires 800 square feet of open space. And this proposal calls for a total of 111 square feet, including the mayor's initiative of increasing the housing stock is to provide more dense projects within transit neighborhoods. And we have three blocks away from Andrew's transportation. In fact, there have been many other recently approved dense projects in this quarter approved by this board. This point Madam Chairman, I'm going to turn it over to you for any questions or comments. Are there questions from the board? Here, Madam Chair and Board members, see Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted at a butter's meeting on May 19th, at which there were questions about a right of way located on the property and about snow removal, though opposition was stated. Andrew's where civic association is the active civic group in this area. They're in support of this application. Or on behalf of the members of the board from a butter's that have been boarded to the board. With that background, our office refers to the board for their judgment. Thank you. But more new Madam Chair and members of the board, Councilor Fling, would like to go a record and support based on a good community process and unanimous support from the Andrew's Quart Civic Association. Neighborhood society could fake compromises with its name and work to preserve the culture of the community. Councilor Fling, we respectfully require that their reporting continue to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you. Yeah, Madam Chair, I think there is one person who was raised in the pan. Yes, PM, CCO, or you can speak now. Thank you. This is Patti McComack, a resident of seven given place in Andrew's Square. And I'd like to support the project wholeheartedly. The developers and their team work closely with Director Butters, which I own one. And I'm able to come up with a plan that is agreeable, compliments the character of the small private way while adding three additional housing units to the seven buildings that make up different place. Neighbor's also appreciative that the developers will be paving the street as part of the project. I also serve as vice president for Andrew's Quart Civic Association and I'm members of the Humanities and I do meeting in support of this project and applaud the developers for the willingness to work with community. Thank you. Thank you. Without no additional comments. Would that be our motion? Mm-hmm. Marge Brue. Man, second. Second. Brue. Mr. Stammerich. Yeah. As we well. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. This is Berbera's up. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Marge. Mr. Marge. Mr. Huck. Thank you. Next, we have case 08173 0722 the address of 156162 through the lab. If the applicant enters the reference and the president will take three to each point to the board. Then, any laystands from 156 to 160 below? No. Okay. Yes. Shall we turn it? Mount Jersello? That was good. And with that, we will skip the next two cases which you've been referred, which will take us to case. The 08173 0351 with the address of 14 Chevrolet. Yeah. Can't stand to whatever the president will take from the display in the board. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. DeBoard, Attorney John Paul G&E. Here on behalf of the homeowners, Egeria and Matthew Smith are relating to 14 Chevrolet and I. Park. The zoning of this neighborhood is single family 9,000. This lot size is 7,380 square feet. The proposal before he was a modest one, Egeria and Matthew seeking to add an approximate 576 square foot addition to the rare of the home, which will convert the home from a single to a two family. The reason for this proposal is to create enough room to allow Egeria's parents to move into the home and have their own space currently. They're living in the basement. This couple has a young child toddler and also another baby doing the way. And they are both working remotely. The plan was to initially have this space designated as an ADU but as a proposal involves expanding the footprint of the building. That update to the ADU policy has not come to high par yet, although it has gone to other neighborhoods. Maybe it's. Therefore, they were forced to go the standard route of zoning compared to a two family. The addition will be located to the right, rare of the house, and will be approximately 570 square feet. It'll have a bedroom, a living room, kitchen and bathroom. If you look at the violations, we have one. It's the location of the main entrance of this. It doesn't face the front line. It uses a two-ep in a single family. It's only subject to, I will point out that there are many twos in this neighborhood. And again, looking at this proposal in the Sedevarasa as an architect would understand this, it presents as a single family. This would never be sold as a two-family home. FAR. Point three is allowed. We are at point three, two. Side yard is ten. We have a pre-existing 9.2 on one side. Rare yard is 40 and we're at 5.9. However, we have no rare butters. It is DC Island. This went to a full community process and at the butters meeting, the direct neighbor shared their support. Also, having the enemy support from high-park neighborhood association and they passed the court of council of pepin. And we've also provided the board with written support from the two butters who are the only ones that could possibly be impacted by this proposal. A dial would be happy to answer any questions but I appreciate the opportunity to present. Thank you. Are there questions on the board? Gary and I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The corner, Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood needs support of this proposal. Some back information in the community process. As you heard, we conducted a butters meeting on June 10th. There was only one butter present in the race. No concerns. The applicant went on to meet with the high-park neighborhood association which was supportive of this proposal. We received two additional letters and support from the butters as well as a letter from Councillor pepin. Awesome indicating support as well. We're unaware of any concerns. So with that, we're very supportive of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Without further ado, no additional comments. We have a motion. Madam Chair, I'm going to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Again. This is the average. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Ranzia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Come on. Thank you, everyone. Next, we have two companion cases. First, the case of the OA. 173-5-5-4. We have the 71 Davis of Street. Along with that, we have case of the OA. 173-5-5-2. With the address of E.E. Peer Street. If the applicant can't handle it, there are representatives present. The includes the slightly cases of the board. Yes. Hi. Good morning, Madam Board. And members of the board. My name is Shabby Marsha Sarmine. I just thought of 40 salmon straight from Field Mass 01940. I would be a turning representative of the OA. This project consists of subcontribute one parcel. The current parcel consists of 8,300 and 32 square feet. The existing two family structure will remain. And that lot size would be about 4,200 and 4,000 square feet. And we plan to elect the two family. I have with me the project of the tech, Jennifer Hopper, who will fund through the violations and the plans for fuel. As you'll see, the home, the new home is well, the existing home to the neighborhood. And it's appropriate to supply and not at the same opportunity of being in the neighborhood. Jen, I'm on. Yes. Hello, Madam Chair. And board, my name is Jennifer Hopper. The principal architect, Hugh Architecture, located at Harvard Street in Dorchester. I'll be presenting the project at 88 Pearson's anyone's Davidson. The proposal as what Shannon Hopper explained is to supply and to build a new two family going on the news of the divided lot. The existing lot currently hosts a two family that's facing 71 Davidson. It is 8,832 square feet and measures 205 feet by 42 feet. Because the lot is very long and extend to peer street to its rear, we wish to divide the lot roughly in half and address the new lot as 88 peer street. The proposed parcel will be 4,248 square feet and the other will be 4,583 square feet, which matches the 4,000 to 5,000 square feet neighboring parcels that make up this block. The project is in a 2F 5000 zone. The houses on this block is comprised of both single families and two families. Therefore, we feel the proposed two family will fit well in this context. Next slide, please. In each unit of the two families will be 3 by 1 and 3 by 1, and we will be averaging 1,800 square feet per unit. This is the plan for the basement and the first floor. The basement and first floor make up the unit one. You can see it's an open kitchen dining layout with a big, varied deck and the back with the second means of the E-Best coming from the varied deck. You can see the next slide, please. This is the other unit which comprises the second floor and the attic space. They also have a second floor deck, which has that secondary regress from the varied deck as well. The plans are quite similar. I feel three bedrooms and three bathrooms. Next. We have designed a traditional gable facade with doors to resemble the neighboring two and a half-story dwellings on the street. We also designed font porches and font-yard landscaping and private decks to offer a more attractive desirable neighborhood appeal can go to the next. Here is the images of Hear Street, so that you can see it's a vacant lot currently. There are two families, a dining lounge, two families and single families, a dining lounge, a dining room, a parcel. We will be creating a new curb cut in front of 88 piers. Next slide, please. This is the rear elevation. You can see the rear deck photo will be facing the new, sorry, the old building as many as Davison, which is the blue building on the lower left picture. They also have rear deck on their side. That's the end of the presentation. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Carried or not, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Paperhood Services. The sign of the Mayor's Office, like to go and record and support of this proposal. It's a back information, the community process, or when I said, conducting a butter excuse on April 10th, in which one of butter was in attendance, and if you increase, remain, which was addressed by the applicants. Next, the applicant went on to meet with the Hyde Park Central River neighborhood group, which were to support the proposal. Our offices also received a petition from the applicant with 48 signatures in support. But the majority of those signatures come from both Davison Street as well as P.A. Street. With that, we'll support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a small answer for this project. Great. May I have motion? Motion to approve. Now the second? Yes. Mr. Stauberidge. Yes. That's we will. Yes. Mr. Bont, yes. Yes. His turn. Yes. Mr. Bont-Borazzo. Yes. Mr. Engel. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That we will return and ask about case B.O.A. 173-0722, the address 156-162-Lugel Avenue. If the applicant enters the representative's head on the present, you take the position to point. Madam Chair, members of the board, I am Luis Centera, we will use professional consultant services in Boston. And this is a proposal to add additional voting units to the existing or historic commercial building. The financials, as you can see from the letter, I come nice section 2, which is question I'm not in my opinion, because we are maintained in the existing local family uses from the first floor, so we will change to that. And the permitted use of the specialization of the local residential units are permitted uses. And the address was signed, and clear what we need to clear for that. The other relations, in the non-area, we are just shy of 7,000 square feet and combining those three lots. It's relatively large, a lot of the two are shy from the additional or the additional one units. We are known for a FAR or required 1-1.78, which requires variance. In the opposite part, it's also a side yard, which in this particular case, it will be as attached to a historic building on the very side, and is a corner lot, so the left side does also have a view of us. We also leave from the opposite parking. As you want to see from the plans, we did provide some spaces in order to alleviate the need for it. Next slide, please. So, this page covers the relief. As well, the chart with the information requirements and use of the regulations again. This is the name FAR, this FAR, and this is combination of commercial and residential. The residential uses are permitted on the circular stories of often, the existing uses will remain with your change. Next slide, please. These are the existing parcels. There are proportions to them facing a blue hill out in the work of buying and the task, and the buildings as well. And there is a real lot of Julian street, which is not occupied by anything, but the existing pay area for parking for the original building. And this part shows the proposal addition. As you can see, the two stories will be added to the footprint of the building, who will not be projecting the other problem and the exception of somebody windows on the front inside, which let the corners from the projection from the front. And parking will be added. The two spaces on the top left corner will be reserved for the owner, owners, as my wife, which they spend significantly time on day at the premises. And the other five spaces, which are the same as the compound spaces, eight by 18, will be dedicated for some of the eight units. Next slide, please. Again, that is the existing layout. I'll put it in the top one. Existing architectural plush are indeed two spaces in the rear and the paved area, as well. Based one, which will not be doing any changes to the building we remain for storage. Existing first floor, as you can see, there are three spaces, but not that functional as one business. You have the best for the seat, the best for the takeout, and you're today making a functional one on the outside. One is labeled as a retailing scavenger over from the previous room, but that operates as a ceiling. That's existing elevation, one is storage. We are in front. Our side, the district, and we are in the street, and a section. This is the layout of the parking and proposed improvements. Next slide, please. Existing basement again, no change. The first floor, as you can see, in the middle of the ground, there is a new method, and that will be the entrance to the reservation unit above. That will be the only change to the existing first floor. In addition, I will visit two semestrouching accommodations from the upper stables. This is the first, the second, and third floor. Those are spacious units, and mine are two bedrooms. Again, there will be layout on the existing footbed on the building, where the private side is at least one building. That is the party wall deck wall, and on the left-hand side, there is a Julianne street, which is in the public way. First and second floor, I will say, identical mirror image. There are four units and four units, one each story. This is the roof plan, only will contain the same head house or maintenance. This is a proposal, but it is not a reservation hall. As you can see, we would remain within the existing footlit, and that would be the roof plan. That is the real animation, with the parking areas, and that is the side of Julianne. The other side of the plane is basically a party wall, so there are no windows or doorbells and it's a knock-off. The second section. Basically just to give you a little bit of background on this, the owner, he has been at this location for 30 years. He has been at the solid reputation as a business owner, responsible now as well. And he is totally great job in the community, well a business owner, he wants. The Grintha we're looking for is consistent with the Azulika Alliance. It's an area of medium density which allows for residential uses. We will not be exceeding the existing footprint of the Grintha, except for the payment of those previous data. And this project is subject to the ITP. These are already available for 46% or percentage of these units will be dedicated for a full house in the park. And so again, the area that are all maintained commercial buildings in this area, makes for the community. So I think this would be a great improvement for the whole and development of this area. And we will make a lot of, again, we will maintain commercial properties in the area. I think this would be a great addition to the name of it. Sorry, I just can't tell you some questions. Let us see if you have any questions. Okay. Can you confirm how many of the whole units you're including in your projects since you mentioned the annual payments? We have zones seed for the January, 70% will be required based on rental units, which is the intent. So that translates into 1.36 unit. I believe definitely one will be affordable for the other action. We decided we should be the implementation of the campaign. Whether it's a partial payment, questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. How many federal will be apartments in the same? How many bedrooms will be same? Yes. There will be units with one bedroom. I believe it's split in families taking four bedrooms and four bedrooms. Thank you. My pleasure. Other questions? Here and then, may I have a public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, C Johnson, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, this petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted ended butters meeting on March 11th, which two of butters were opposed to a lack of parking. We understand that the petitioner subsequently made some changes prior to the presentation on April 14th at the 9th Street's United Civic Association, which wanted to support the proposal of the butters meeting. There was also a concern raised about whether the project would include affordable units. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, you know how these should all come in. Would that have motion? Madam Chair, before a motion of approval with a proposal that the project undergoes, be PD, design review, paying special attention to the site planning, to review the parking and be overhead along the public way. And do we need a provider for the IDP unit? If it's required, they have to submit. May I have a second? Mr. Tammerich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Badaza. Yes. Mr. Reinville. Yes. Chair votes yes, motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Mr. Badaza. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm David Luciano, I'm the applicant and homeowner of 62 L Street, three family home in South Boston. Our proposal is to rebuild an existing exterior rear staircase and construct a new roof deck seeking variance is for institution side of where we are to the staircase and a variance or access to the roof deck, not being via a patch that's required by code. We're actually seeking a deferral today following our recent third of voters meeting to finish working with our architects to provide an alternative solution to the roof deck. To see if it can come to an applicable compromise with our most immediate of voters at 60 L Street. The next step in the year dates for that. The 28th will be great. I have a motion. I'll use it until for October 28th. That was second. Back in. This is average. Yes. As we were all. Yes. Mr. Badaza. Yes. Mr. Rano. Yes. Mr. Badaza. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Careful. It's worth a long time to see that. Thank you. Next, we have a reconsideration here. This is the case BLA 169-076 with the address of 507 Massachusetts Avenue. If the applicant's answer or the representative of the front, the employer's plans are important. I have some people. Please send the invitation. I'm Mr. Badaza. Are you still refusing yourself from this? Yes. I'm getting a recuse myself. This case. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to ask you when you're a six-member board. Hello, everyone. Yes. Are you the applicant? Yes. How are you? Great. Can you introduce yourself and your... Your address and now what do you hear from? Yes. I'm the applicant. I don't know if you can answer that. My name is Armando Nantes. I'm introducing 507 Massachusetts Avenue. Post on filter 118. We are proposing... This is a lodging house. And we are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We are proposing the increased housing. We have now corrected. We have now updated recommendation from the BPDA in support of the case. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none is there a motion? Well, I'm sure there is a motion of the board. Just to clarify, it's a... It's a... It's a... it's to reconsider. What? Yes. So then they'll present again. But it's just a motion to reconsider what they're asking. Okay. So motion to reconsider. Thank you. Is there a second? No second. That's good. It's the stammering. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Ronsea. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Lina. Yes, ma'am. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Great. Would you like me to present the merits now, or...? I don't think so. Is that Caroline? We just... We consider it for another hearing. Yes, here we consider for another hearing. Right. We can even schedule that now. Thank you, Caroline. Yep. Sorry. We'll obviously take this into available. So we appreciate the board. Working with us on this. Stephanie. Thank you. You have the dates. Um... Oh. How about... I'll take the numbers one third. Yep. Yep, that's the students one. That would be great. All right. We'll see you then. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, I love you very much. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. I'm going to give that a vote. Good luck. Bye. Okay. you you