 you you you you yeah tôi BM και m President. Mr. Beraza. President. As we will. As in Mr. Langham. President. Mr. A. President. Okay, the corridor is Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Oh, well, not. We'll ask you to again request for the draw of the vote from the one-clock conference. Hearing none, we'll go on to case VOA, one-fogging, two-eighth, seven-fourth, with the address of 62 South Thomas Street. It's the applicant and all their representatives, they explain to the board members. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge, and good afternoon, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Borden. Richard Lins, the business address of 245th Summars Street, East Boss on the Affleck Titioner. We jump out of slide seven, probably a good place to start our context. Madam Chair, members, this is an existing single-family dwelling that's located in the orange-like section of East Boss in our proposal involves the demolition of the existing structure and constructions of a new five-unit residential dwelling with five off-street parking spaces. We jump back to slide three briefly. So, as you'll see from the client, our site is the 50-foot wide by 100-foot deep site. It was formally located within the 2F 4000 district as this board must be well aware by now. There's an amendment to Article 53, and this week has only been adopted by the Boston Zoning Commission. This site is now located in the EBR-3 substrates, so there's a entirely set of different regulations that are now applicable, even though this was filed under the previous zoning board of 2F 4000. With respect to this particular site with the new EBR-3, up to six units is allowed on a site provided that you have at least 55 feet of lot with. That was a dimensional change that was added to the event of zoning. However, it's important to point out for the board the consideration of this allocation that there is no minimum lot size that is required in the new EBR-3. So, based upon that, this lot could be divided into two lots. Each lot could accommodate, provided means that dimensional regulations, each lot could accommodate a single or separate three-story structure of six units. Interestingly, under the new zoning, however, there is no required parking when you have zero or one to three-unit, such as that. So, six units with no parking would be the azure-fight scenario. Our proposal is five units to a single building with five upstream parking spaces. It would also point out and stress that this was approved by the Harvard Renewer Association, which generally is a little adverse to development, but based on our explanation of what the azure-fight versus the new zoning would allow, they did support this proposal. If we could jump down to slide 10. So, our rendering here shows the proposed building which is in compliance with the new amended height regulations and allows up to three stories and 35 feet height. We do have a garage entrance looking in front of the building that will pass through to the back to allow for access to the parking area. If we can go to slide 13. So, our proposed site plan shows our building with setbacks on the left at three feet on the right side of five feet. You can see that parking access point through the building that brings us to the back. We do show the five parking spaces that look into the back portion of property. Under the new zoning amendment, the limitations are a lot coverage of no more than 60%. We're below that. Our building lot coverage would be a lot up to about 3000 square feet where at 2300 square feet for total coverage. In addition, we're required to provide a 30% permeability which we have an ample space towards the back of the property to include. So, those are both in compliance with the new amended zoning. We're going down to the where you're at setback requirements for the new zoning requires a one third setback from the where most portion of the building. We're at about 34 feet which would be a little bit more than what's required. We do show some decks off to the left side of that building. Those are uncovered decks and therefore would not count towards the setback. So, our setback actually would be a conformity with the proposed zoning amendments as out of the side yard front yard setbacks as well. Within the new EVI-3 district down chair on the board, there is no FAR limitation. And again, as I mentioned, there is no minimum lot size or a lot that is required. So, other than the use itself which I would say still means with the stair and ten of the code, the only relief we would be requiring under the new zoning would be the use for a single building as we do not have a 50-5 feet width that is required. We would also be in compliance with parking requirements because over three units, the new zoning would require that you have to have at least one parking space per unit. So, with that, I can jump down to the floor plan, particularly the slide 15. And then, it's running questions at the board. So, you see our lower level here which provides an adaptable unit that we also include the access for the garage, the garage access through the rear. We do have space for the garage for traction recycling as well as some storage. And then we have two units on both the second and third level of the community, it asks us to make the modification to a lot of free bedroom units. They ask us to incorporate units that were more accommodated to family side and we agreed to make that adjustment. And we also believe that's one of the reasons why they have to be ultimately supporting this proposal. So, with that, Madam Chair, I will stop and answer any questions before I thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Questions from the board? I have one question. Now, what's your second question? Well, the problem is situation. When the cost per minute will they be able to turn around in the backyard or in the back, out of the garage? It's a great question. There is sufficient space as a lot is 50 feet with a typical aisle is about 18 to 20 feet with these parking spaces would be 20 feet as you can see here on the land. So, we have about 30 feet available for turning radius. So, they would not need to back down to that driveway, that spot that's locally closest to the building, could back out and then perform sort of a, I guess a 3.3 out of 2.3 into that garage area. So, any room for access? Okay. Thank you. How many free bedroom units do you have? I believe we incorporated two, three hundred minutes. Okay. So, typically they tend to go to families and I would like to know where is the open space where children comply? So, part of the concern that we typically hear in this neighborhood is the off street parking. We ideally would have left the rear yard for entire use as open space, but the parking was chief concern and more of a reasons why, again as I mentioned, they opted for this proposal as opposed to the as of right two, three families that would have open space in the rear. There is a, I will point out, there is a, we have the overview of the slides to the context. There's a playground directly across the street from this property and is within close walking distance these bus degree way as well as the constitution each. So, there are a lot of recreational opportunities that you meet at the center, but as you can see towards the top of the screen where context is, that is a playground that's looking directly across the street. Thank you. I have any way to comment that with the barathanamate about the parking in the open space. And I was just checking them up and there is the blue line and stop is just two or three blocks away. And with that, I also see that there is a tree on the property. Is that correct? So, if you are promoting the only tree on the property and you are covering the entire open space with parking and pavement, I don't see what is the benefit of the apartments, what is the benefit for the new residents? I don't disagree on the need for the open space. Many projects we do propose, we do opt for the open space for the back of the property. This particular neighborhood, I do agree the blue lines have been close walking distance as well. The neighbors felt as if the inclusion of upstream parking was a better option, I guess for the neighborhood, but certainly willing to listen to what the board's recommendation was on the parking. What are your on-screen parking options? I mean, I see cars on both sides. Are those residential spaces? Are they open to anyone? It's our residential space. It is during the day, you can be a little bit challenging. That's a small, elementary school, one kid directly across the street as well. So, it can be a little bit challenging, somewhat congested about street parking in the city area. Other questions from the board? Yes, from a day I'm sure I'm going to jump in. I think there's going to be a lot of things that come up regarding the new zoning code. As everyone knows, but I think it builds off of the comments of Ms. Betaparovsa and Mr. Valencia here that I understand there's some look at, well, five units of five parking spaces meet some objective, but you could also do three as a two-three unit as of right that still have yards and have better design contextuality with the neighborhood. And there's probably a reason why the EBR-3 district was written in such way. So, I mean, I have a strong C kind of the need for the variances under the new zoning code. For this, this is a better outcome for the community given the recent passage and all attention being paid to how projects are intended to comply to that unless they have real need for relief to the other in any circumstances. Madam Chair, I have just added one of the guys. I don't disagree that the EBR-3 does allow for options for dividing a lot and creating separate three unit buildings. Those were certainly not, we wouldn't be able to look at three bedrooms based upon the footprint limitations for each of those watts because we were being still limited to 60% watt coverage. So, due to theliness of a single building also creates some efficiencies that allow us to add those three bedrooms. I'm likely to think of those as separate trip vectors as well. Again, trying to respond to comments on the neighborhood. This particular civic group was very active in the planning process and understanding that there's not going to be a one size fits all of this one. Certainly, I heard in their support. I think that's pretty significant based upon in our case, I pray for that group. I mean, I would like to hear Jeff Hampton speak regarding the BPD's recommendation and kind of the feedback of this complete lot being turned to, you know, over your kind of open parking lot. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chairman, this is for Jeff Hampton BPD. As you can see, a couple of our recommendations for today. We would recommend through components that have these recent appeals before you. Kind of go back to the drawing board and try to do projects that are in line with the news oning that was adopted last week. That actually went into effect last week. We understand that these were done prior to his own commission adopting the new one of the 53 regulations. What these weren't a surprise, these were out there and people knew that this was going to be an EVR 3 district. So we recommend in our without frag, prejudice, prefer to see the current state of the state. And we're going to have to go back and adhere to the current regulations that are now in the thing. Madam Chair, just briefly, I appreciate this to have his comments on this. I will point out, and this is somewhere that challenged with a number of the projects that were put into motion before the final adoption of zoning. And in this particular case, we did look at this under a number of the same requirements. 50 foot wide lots were originally going to be the ones that were allowed to have the multi family. There was a very late change in that recommendation to change that to 55 feet. I'm not so certain as to what purpose or any intent of that is because as I said, 50 foot wide could accommodate two as a bright, we story buildings, three family buildings. And I actually proposed in one last unit, and I understand the concern of parking. But I believe we were working along the lines of what the earlier recommendation was, when this was planned, the change to add the five feet to the lot with makes this a little bit more of a difficult case because of that. I would submit to the board, you're not going to find many 55 foot wide lots in the districts from which that restriction was imposed. That's a separate conversation we could have. Certainly with the DPA, it was on the beach, but this is one of those instances where we looked at what the recommendation was trended towards, and that's how we designed this to the change. Ultimately, the make this 55 foot wide lot created the, you know, the non compliance requirements. I mean, I don't have an issue personally with the 50 foot lot, I think it has to do more with kind of the character of the block. So if you look even in front of this image, you have a lot of nice rear open green space. And while I do understand that there's a parking, there's a park right across, that's still kind of covered with a non kind of green surface. So it's more of a hard skate kind of open space. So, you don't really see the typology of kind of a front driveway on the block. You do see a building kind of block, three buildings next to the site, but I'm more concerned with replacing a nice rear open green space and replacing that with in-premise surface. So why don't we open it up to a test of the money and we can circle back? Madam Chair, members of the Board of Congress, I've been with the Mayor's Office of the neighborhood services. This time the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment that's broad. Ones hosted in a butters meeting on December 6, 2023. I'm going to go back to the comments. The feedback on the projects. Very, there was someone who expressed their appreciation for the proposed height, feeling it did not overshadow the neighboring homes. Several residents, I believe, asked to provide feedback, seeking more three bedroom units, which they felt would accommodate families easier and add to the neighborhood. I think that's why the residents regarding road and requested that preventative measures be taken during the construction period to ensure that road and not bother other neighbors. A different buttership concerning regarding the height of the building, but also adds for the units to be more accommodating for family. As the other contreportation mentioned, they went for the higher review neighborhood association in January of 2024. The group voted for support of 12 of them favorite and nine of them are the ones that were the most important. I would like to thank the other residents. I would like to thank the residents of the area for their support. Thank you. Mr. Newman, was there any feedback regarding hucking spaces versus open space? Unfortunately, the liaison on that conducted the public processes out today. I just have to note that it was provided. I've seen the conversations were focused mostly on the three bedroom aspect to it. Thank you. Just getting the other raise times. I don't have a raise. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Would that be a motion? Okay. I'm going to try a motion and see what the board members think about this. I'm going to recommend a pro-world with a pro-wise so that I have a project that will reduce the parking for room five to three parking spaces. I'm going to try and see what the board members think about this. I'm going to recommend a pro-world with a pro-wise so that I can see the parking spaces, especially the station to increase in and open space and view the LW. Okay. Is there a second? Okay. I'm hearing no second. Is there a different motion? I'll put forward a motion of denial about prejudice consistent. With the PPA recommendations, I think a lot of my colleagues on the board put it really well for reasons, you know, it's out of context with the neighbor. I think there's this sort of period where the new Boston has, the news hunting has been recently in place, but I know this project, you know, existed before that. But that being said, I'd like to see more projects before us that more closely comply with minimal variance. Is there a second? Second. Second. Second. Second. Mr. Steinbrunch. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Paraza. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Alaynam. Yes. Mr. Alaynam. Yes. Mr. Alaynam. Yes. Mr. Alaynam. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case of dealing with 1543573 for the address of 61 Marion Street. It's the applicant and where their representatives are present. Is there a strong case of the report? Oh, I saw him earlier. Are you clearly out of the office proposal? I saw him. Just a few more. You are static. I'm static. You are. I see that he's out in the office. So I'm trying to set up a question to make him a person. That I could have to move. Yes. Can you just state your name and address for the record? Sure. My name is Sam Hijazi. I'd be represented for 61 Marion Street, East Boston. Great. Please proceed. Sure. Can you proceed? I am fine. So you cannot control the slides. You can let you can let them investor know where to which slides you want her to take. We'll have the current elevations below. Right there. Yeah. One below. This is the existing conditions of the property right here. It's an existing three family and some space in the basement. As you look at it, it has our maps are proved. And height wise, it matches the building on the right side. It's a little bit shorter than the blue building on the left side. If you look at the back of this slide, that is what we are hoping for with the final work. We have added a top floor, a top limit, and the height of this one pretty much lines out where the existing conditions are we all on the left side. On the back side of the building, you see all the all decks, one to code, one confirming, and the feeling. Yeah, one down, one side down. Very good. If you see on the left side, the conditions here, and what we are proposing is on the right side. We are proposing also space over the back with the staircase that looks from the top all the way down to the bottom where the green space and the back of your deck consists of our 30 foot deep by the width of the map. That will be a plenty of space for kids or people to gather by the troops and so forth. We also visited a little spot in the back for the crash battle and still have the numbing nut. Only between the two buildings, so there will be a space where you go on the barrels to the back and then bring the name on the flashlight. There are units inside consists of two bedrooms, bathrooms, open floor plan concept. And at the time it's all built out, there will be compliance to electrical, quantum mechanical, each of you will see, you will notice, electrical insulation. There are no problems with the problem. Yeah. Okay, thank you. This is the zoning analysis where we have, and each one consists of what existing and compared to what we are proposing. Redis reflecting the total structure is on the left, in the back, oxygenatic views, down to the floor plans. Thank you. As you enter from, as you enter from the street right here, you can go into this space, to the room, open kitchen, bathroom, office, or bedroom, and then you go from the back door into that big open space that's in the back, where the patio is on the back in green space. That's on the wall, you can go to the first floor. Okay, thank you. You can enter from the street on the steps, you enter, you go into the unit to the left side, and anybody living upstairs, you can continue through the staircase going out. Same concept, living room, open kitchen, utilities, closets, bedrooms, home bathroom, and then the door will take you on a walkway to the back back. So anybody entering the decks will be either from the back, or the backyard, or going out from the unit itself. You go up to the upper level. That's the third unit. Same thing coming through the staircase, open kitchen, bedroom, bedroom, utilities, and out to the back deck. That floor... Same, different concept is you can't come in because of the staircase here, we pushed them in, so you can have a little private deck over the front, and we have a little end, we can go open space, we can go back, from privacy to the back, open space towards the front, and the back decks in the backyard of the deck. One more day, and this is the problem, space where you go in from inside the unit, access, the deck. Okay, are there questions from the board? Can you meet the projects that work with the out, the fourth floor, let's say kind of pen house unit, because you have a bedroom up there, can no projects that work without that benign unit on the top? What is your, you know, your requesting a variance? And so, you know, why do you need this to make your project work? Well, it gives it a more privacy toward the front and the back, or the up to unit that's up on the front. And if we have more of a significant end, what's that next door, we still have to have an access to go up to that roof deck. Right, but when you're requesting, when you're requesting a variance, you have to list kind of special conditions that deprive you of from reasonable use of the property. And it doesn't seem like you have a real use of real need for requesting that. For us to grant you kind of relief for building height, because the code requires 35 feet as a height limit. So, we are within three feet of that. We are at 38. 38, can you, okay, so, would you be able to do a project without a violation in height? What's the name right now of the top of the top? Okay, we are matching the building that's on the left side of us. Highquise. What's your building, what's your floor ceiling height on a floor floor? Existing two floors below, they are at 9 feet, the left. And the top, the year edition. Three feet. Eight feet, okay. All right, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Mr. Aiken, do you have a question or comment? Well, yes, along the same lines, but the plans also show this is 40 feet. So, I don't know where the 38 comes from, but the same thing that this is a 35-foot district. Right. You reduce the from 40 to 38. That's interesting. And then we send up lands ended, all of us, we can't use them now, we have to go with this presentation. Okay. This will be on you. I was still thinking this is the same premise stance. There's some comments regarding primarily the height, but you know, I could understand some of the needs around maybe the open space and, you know, sort of the lot, and regarding the addition on the rear there. Certainly, don't understand the unique nature of the parcel. And the property and the need for the, for the fourth, for the fourth story, for this out of the new code. Okay. Are there other questions or comments from the board? If you can read the BPD's recommendation, that would be helpful too. Mr. Hampton. Mr. Hampton, yeah, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Hampton, BPDBA. Would you like me to read it? Well, the record or you just want me to summarize. The ones. Again, this is something that has like the previous case where we believe there's probably a solution to this project. However, it does violate even some of the new zoning. So we are on record to recommend denial with our prejudice. We think they can be a new project that's designed that fits better with the item of 53 amendments that weren't won in two effect last week. Thank you. Madam Public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling our newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This 10-a-mairiff is object to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process. Own a social center butters meeting for this project in November 30th of 2023. At the outcome, we want to meet with the Eagle Health Civic Association and act to support the project to February of 2024, the vote of nine new favorites and five opposed. Of that information, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. My Chair, I have no regrets. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval with a provisional that the applicant works with the PDA to work within the high limit of 35 feet. Is there a second? We said that. Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Beter-Baza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Aino. Yes. Mr. Aiken. No. I prefer to know that it's compliant with the code and otherwise come back for a reason why I couldn't be. So my vote is now. Thank you. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Mr. Beter-Baza. Yes. We have case. Next, we have case. No. 151-8102. Would you add the rest of one, one, one, to one, to be rough without? Yes. Hello, everyone. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you for your time today. My name is Christopher Roble. I'm a resident at 103, Rutherford Avenue. I'll be speaking on behalf of Fabio Zillog, who is the person that submitted the appeal for this. He is one of our contractors working on this project. I'd like to quickly start by just giving a quick overview and timeline of sort of our process here and what we're trying to achieve. The objective is to reconstruct our roof deck and the exact same footprint of the previous deck. In September of 2022, we removed the existing roof deck and we had the roof replaced. In May of 23, we filed our permit to reconstruct the roof deck, which was subsequently denied. Then we began the appeal process and started down that road. In March of 24, we held our community engagement meeting, which was a very, very positive meeting. And now that brings us to today, May 2024, our zoning board appeals meeting. The files you should have on record should be our refusal letter or the architectural drawings for our new deck. The plans that you have in front of here, and then I believe you should have photos of the previous deck illustrating that it is in fact the exact same footprint as the proposed plans. That's a bit of an overview. Like I mentioned, we day-hold our waters meeting with our community liaison, Sean Barine, all the feedback that we received at that meeting was very positive. Everyone was in support of the reconstruction of the roof deck. And with that, I will pause and take any questions from the board. When we scroll to the second slide, I'm just trying to see where the actual image of the roof deck is. Or maybe I'm dismissing it. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Okay, hearing that, a public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Green with the mayor's office and the neighborhood services. And the board's meeting was held for 101 through 103 Washington Street, Wauper. So 101, 103 Ruthified Ab. Sorry about that. Back in March, since that time, this office has received no wet isn't support and done an opposition with that, and we would better have federal to the board. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I think I don't think we received everything that the applicant laid out. I only have what was shown on the screen, the two sheet's up floor plans. I noticed the BPA recommendation is denial without prejudice, so they can resubmit with dimensional information relevant to roof structure restrictions. And now drawings that represent inside elevations, as well as information on how it relates to the public realm. So I'm not sure the board, you know, you'll be wanting to get that information, but I think we only received the two sheets. Any other questions? I mean, the one question I would have is, you know, does the BPA support roof deck in this location? Because I think one can suggest that the project undergoes BPA design review. But I think the larger question is, because you can see how they're accessing the roof deck from an internal. I think they have kind of a headhouse already from the Google images. So I think the larger question would be for Jeff, for me, does the BPA recommend roof decks? So thank you, Mr. Bedford, Jeff Hampton, BPA. I don't think we necessarily oppose the roof decks for what about any sort of height or so what I'm looking for. You know, vertical renderings of how high these decks go up and where they are on the deck metric from the roof. That was I concerned a lot. What's that? You, we don't know if you can see it from the street or if it needs to be set back even further. So that was the reasoning behind it. Yeah. I get it. Okay. That's great context for. Yeah, to confirm your rebuilding something as is exactly. Yeah, there's two points of access. It won't be visible from the street. It is compliant with all the zoning. But of course, it looks like you guys didn't actually receive the plans that we do have drawn up. So it would be possible to receive conditional approval based on that review of the plans. Thank you. So if I said everybody can make a motion. Is someone prepared to make a motion? I prefer a motion of approval with a proviso that BPDAT determines the size and location of the roof deck. Is there a second? I'm sorry. I will second but could I add, you know, just a tweak that, you know, with consideration for how it appears from the public ground? Right. That's where the BPDAT determines the location to make sure that it's not visible from public way. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Ratzia. Yes. Mr. Bertha. Yes. Good to know. Yes. Mr. Oingham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Sure. Also, what's yes? The motion carries the welcome. Thank you very much for your time today. Next. We have. Welcome. Okay. Are you refusing yourself, Ms. Betaparasa? Yeah. This is got to let Mr. Stambridge read it under record. Okay. Re-cuse myself. Those four cases are case QA 157 6379. What the address is 241, you may have no. How long about the case BIA 157 6378? What the address is 22th, you know, 3. Then we have case BIA 157 6380. What the address is 268, you may have no. Now, longer than that, we have case BIA 157 6381. What the address is 276, you may have no. Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself in four cases. Thank you. Thank you. We are now at six number board. Please proceed. And with that, we will ask the applicant and would it represent us? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, attorney, medical with Fletcher Tilton, with the business address of 100 Franklin Street. With me this afternoon, our Dwayne Boyce and Adler Bernadon from Northfolk Design and Construction, Chris Drew from 686 Architects and TRSatchel from Mayors Office of Housing. I'm here before you this afternoon on behalf of the four companion cases that were just right into the record, all of which are part of phase one of the Welcome Home Boston Initiative. Overall, the project includes four residential buildings across four sites, three in close proximity along Geneva Ave being located at 241, 268, and 278 Geneva Ave and a fourth site located at 22 units street. Overall, the project proposes 26 total units, all which will be affordable homeownership units, with 13 offered at 80% AMI and 13 offered at 100% AMI. All four of the laws have been owned by the city historically and are currently vacant that are located in 3F 5000 zoning districts. Just to go through each lot and proposal briefly, 241 Geneva Ave were proposing a three-story building with six affordable units and four parking spaces. The floor plans for this, the basement would contain mechanical and sprinkler rooms and then floors one through three will each contain two units per floor. In total, that would be three two bedroom units and three three bedroom units. Moving on to 268 Geneva Ave, we're proposing a four-story building with seven affordable units. The floor plans for this, the first floor would be essentially at grave. This side of Geneva Ave has a large topology of basically three-and-a-half raised foundation or basement structures. So we are proposing four-story here, but our first floor would have mechanical room, sprinkler room, a trash room, and one unit. And then floors two through four would have two units per floor. 276 would be largely the same, 276 Geneva Ave that is. We're proposing again a four-story building with seven affordable homeownership units. Similar layout and typology, the first floor would have a mechanical and sprinkler room, a trash room, and one residential unit. And then floors two through four would each have two units per floor. Finally, a 22-unit street. We're proposing a three-story building with six affordable units and three total parking spaces. This would contain a basement with mechanical and sprinkler rooms, as well as two units per floor for the first, second, and third floor. This project went through a community process during both the RFP and zoning process and the team meant multiple times with the butters and the greater about in Geneva Neighborhood Association. With that, I know there are four different sites and a lot of information. I will pause and take any further questions on each building of the zoning that the board may have. Thank you. Questions from the board? For the various buildings in the end of the unit, some of them wouldn't be the size of number of bedrooms or the size of the units. So, for the 2.4-1-1-1, it is three two bedrooms units and three three bedrooms units. There's a sprinkler room, about 340 units, three two bedrooms, and about 952.3 bedrooms. For 22 units, there's three two bedrooms units, about 867, and three three bedrooms, about 936, where it is. For two six-liter Geneva, there's four, where the bedroom units, about 540, where it's about 724, there's three two bedrooms, and there's about 724, where it is. There's about 276, which is about 724, 375, there's about 460, 430, and 1.1.1.1 at about 632, and 3200, about 816, which are 860. 631, but what's your bedroom? Okay, thank you. All right, other questions from the board? I'm sure I'd just like to hear from Mayor Donaldson. I was during the public comment period, just about consistency with the welcome home over him, and their review of this. Thank you. With that, let's turn it over to public testimony. Oh, I guess I... Sure, Madam Chair, members of the board, a car in the moon with the Mayor's office and the neighborhood services, is time-related to defer to the judge from the board. As you heard from the House of Interrepresentation, they went through a lengthy M.O.H. led community process, meeting with President several times, assisting their feedback. They also checked in with all the civic, the great voting group. Greater voting Geneva group, and presented with them, told us a positive community meeting, without defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Mayor Donaldson, the House of Interrepresentation, and the Mayor's office. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I often counsel around his office for all the reasons that were stated previously, the Council lights a long record in support of Mayor. Tear it out. Hi, my name is Tierra Sajgo. I'm a housing bill in the office, with Mayor's Office of Housing. This project involves a disposition of City-owned land associated with the welcome home Boston program, which is an initiative to create a formal understanding of the City of Boston. The Office of Design and Construction, and it's a designated vote for the size project has gone through and exists in the community process and has this full support in the lake. Ma'am, thank you. Hi, good afternoon. I am a resident of Number Fab at Unistreet, and I also believe that I have on phone another resident of Unistreet at 12 and 14. I would like to leave my letter of opposition to this project at 22 Unistreet only, specifically for the fact that lack of parking will be paramount. A situation that will be exasperated on the small street due to another building project at 177-179 Bowden Street currently in prior progress. That building at the base of Unistreet will have mixed-use space. Street cleaning prohibitions will demand residents of Parkland and side streets. At present, Unistreet only has one-sided parking, where would the M-floods of additional park vehicles go, according to the notice that the proposed unit at 22 Unistreet, three-story residential building has three designated parking spots for six units. It is obviously clear that the needs and concerns for visitors, residential parking, butters, through streets and hand-to-hand designated residents on Unistreet have not, and possibly would not be meant. In addition, both Unistreet and Devastreet, the next street overlap cut sidewalks, further adding to possible aforementioned problems and issues prohibiting the enjoyment of home and property use. There's an ongoing road and problem on these streets, possibly due to the home that has been, that has been in for several years at the corner of Bowden and Devastreet, and the road and problem has notably increased since the new construction digs in this area. All has been reported to Inspectorial Services several times, but has not been addressed. The noise factor generated in this small densely populated area is already concerned for residents. I would like to also say that being a unit, being a resident of five Unistreet, this information and this construction project is all new information to us who actually live on the street. It will have to deal with this ongoing problem. We have houses that are a favorite on board, that front door, Devastreet, but have parking in the yard for our Unistreet. So when we have street cleaning, where are we going to park? Where are cars going to go? If you open up the street, it becomes a roadway for people who are trying to avoid traffic on Bowden street, which is a main double for them. So all of these things are concerned for the people who live actually on Unistreet, and then with the bus stops on the ends of Bow Street, that makes even less parking for anybody who needs to move their car late at night. We all work at various hours of the day, and so that's also an issue. In my home alone, we have elderly and a blind person. So when we step off to our sidewalk, what happens is it poses a danger for those who live in an area. What kind of man I was thinking? Yes, sir? I am. Yes. I'm Kevin. Hi, yes, everyone. My name is Kevin Welton. I live on 42 Old Knee Streets, so running up right to 22 Unistreet, and I am in opposition of this project specifically as well. Very much in agreement with what was just stated specifically around parking. I think this project would actually in fringe on my current property, eliminating one of our parking spaces. I think, McNeill, ways of private way that plugs up to this, that may be impacted as well. So very concerned about that. Noise is also a huge factor, and I'm afraid that additional residents in cut having the street be more of a cut through would be a concern. So I've lived in this building for seven years, six years now, and extremely concerned that this will have a bad impact on the neighborhood. Thank you. No additional waste. I'm not sure if this is for the applicant or an old age, but does someone want to address the concerns on Unistreet? Certainly we understand and recognize the kind of trade constraints on Unistreet currently, and parking is always a concern. With this proposal, we were trying to balance providing some parking without overburdening the site. We have no inclination of turning this into a cut through on either side of the street. We understand or have heard that this road problems, I believe this project will help improve that by going through some pest control process that's required by city. We have a building permit, so I believe we can actually be of some assistance in terms of that current concern and ongoing concern, which seems to be kind of a street wide and maybe neighbor wide issue that we could help with. But again, we felt the three parking spaces was a nice balance, as mentioned in some of the comments. We are directly adjacent to some bus stops and close proximity to two META stations, so this will be kind of a mixture of private parking as well as transit oriented development. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? What are the parking restrictions on both in street? Do anyone else on the proponents of the team know in terms of resident parking? I'm just not aware or no parking. No parking times. Obviously, the street is a small street to understand that, and not everyone can have parking in front of their door. So I'm just trying to understand how both in service that purpose. Bowdoin does have parking on both sides of the street. There is street cleaning as well as some bus stops, which obviously take up some public on street parking, but there is parking on both sides of the street. Yeah. I understood that. I have a question, particularly in the 22 units street. There are six units in three parking spaces. How is the parking? Is the parking assigned to units? I know with a formal household car can be a huge asset. I'm just wondering how it's decided what parking goes with which unit. If at all, or is it just first on first serve? Yeah. So they will be assigned a part of the home ownership benefit is that you kind of know what you're going to get if and when you were to purchase one of the units. So you know if you had it and it would be assigned, it wouldn't be a free for all. I'm not sure if the exact units, which would have the parking space have been designated yet, or if that's still going through the process, but it would be designed that they are attached to a unit. Thank you. Without a man of motion. Clanchard, I'll put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? A second. Mr. Stamperich? Yeah. Mr. Volacia? Yes. Mr. Bervaza? He's recuse, ma'am. Mr. Hark. Yes. Mr. Langham? No. Mr. Eakin? Yes, I think these are appropriate developments. I'm going to welcome all of Boston program. Here are also votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm from the board. Thank you, everyone. Have a good day. Thank you. Thank you.