 you you you This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue to practice upholding virtual hearings until July 15th, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Resume WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live-streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone video conferencing. May I ask Ms. Ambassador to see if everybody can be muted because I hear an echo? The information for connecting to this hearing is listed at today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices pages page of the city's website, Boston.go. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by the project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you're the wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself if you are connected by telephone. Those called upon to comment will be asked to stay there at name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not note to call on you at the appropriate time. Please lower your hand immediately after you've spoken. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. So let's get started. Let me take a roll. All Mr. Fortune. I'm here, Madam Chair. Good morning. Morning, Mr. O'Leake. Here, here. I hear you have a growly throat with them. Call for something. Yes, I hear. Ms. Dong. Good morning, Mr. Ruggiero. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Ligress. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. So in conformance with the open meeting law after each vote, after each presentation and we're ready to get ready for a vote, I'm going to take a roll call of each member for their to register their voice vote. Okay? So it'll take us a little bit longer, but it will keep the record clear. Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Okay, Mr. Fortune, it's all yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm trying to get my video. I'm in here my audio, so I'll try to get the video on taking care of here. So first of all, our business is the approval of the hearing minutes of June 7th of 2022. We need a motion. Motion approval of the minutes. How's that getting here? All those in all those in favor? Any opposed? And obviously I have to get in the mode, Mr. Fortune. Mr. Oleg. Mr. Stonk. Mr. Regiro. Mr. Robinson. Mr. Ligress. Approved. I too am in support of the motion carries. Okay, so extension calling, DOA 579-100-931-103. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. Attorney Lawrence Bettino. Covering for Attorney Richard Lins. 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. Thank you, Colonel Fulure. Regarding 931-103, the Board originally granted relief for this matter on July 13th, 2018. The Board has sent to grant two instances of that relief that expire on July 13th of 2022. The first extension, however, was not necessary because COVID-19 was calling the 5th to relieve. With calling, the expiration of the original grant to relieve should have been October 18th, 2021. However, the Board granted a second extension of relief until July 13th, 2022. I recommended the Board's confirmed for the record that this extension encompass all polling. The applicant now requests an additional extension until July 13th, 2023. I recommended the Board grant that extension if it determines that it is appropriate on the record. Heeping in mind that this is the only this is only the applicant's second necessary extension. May I have a motion, please? Good morning, Madam Chair. I will move to confirm that relief is valid through July 13th, 2022, including any and all applicable tolling. Further move to grant an additional extension of relief through July 13th, 2023, of course, including any and all applicable tolling. Okay, Mr. Fortune? Mr. Oleh? Mr. Dong? Aye. Mr. Ruggiero? Aye. Mr. Robinson? Mr. Legress? Aye. Aye. I too, I'm in support of the motion carries. Thank you. Good to help you. Following the next case for extension, calling VLA 788-662-587-Halvan-E-Greet. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Matt Echo with Greg Elvand Tiscano with the business address of 11th Beacon Street on behalf of 587-Halvan-E-Greet. Thank you, Council, regards to 587-Halvan-E-Greet. The Board originally granted relief for this matter on August 23rd of 2018. The Board has since granted two extensions of that relief that expired on August 23rd of 2022. The first extension, however, was not necessary because COVID-thalling of crisis relief. With calling, the expiration of the original grant that relief should have been, November 28th, 2021, however, the Board granted a second extension of relief until August 23rd of 2022. I recommend that the Board confirm for the record that this extension encompass all following the applicant now requires an additional extension until August 23rd of 2023. I recommend that the Board grant that extension is determined to be appropriate under the circumstances, keeping in mind that it's only the applicant's second necessary extension. Motion, please. Madam Chair, I hereby move to confirm that relief is valid through August 23rd, 2022, including any and all applicable tolling. I further move that an additional extension is granted for relief through August 23rd of 2023, which of course will include any and all applicable tolling. Thank you. Senator. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Dome. Aye. Mr. Regiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Lugris. Aye. Aye. I too are in support. Motion carries. Thank you. Following an XK for extension calling, the OAA 874, 954, real 3 to 305, Venetian Street. Name and address for the record plate. Good morning. Once again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Medical with the business address of 11 Beacon Street on behalf of 303305 Venetian Street. Thank you, Councilor. We got to 303305 Venetian Street to board originally granted this relief on July 12, 2019. And the board granted its first extension of relief until July 12, 2022. However, that first extension was not necessary because of the code with tolling and vice-related. With tolling this relief remained valid until October 17, 2022. I recommend that the board to further relief remain valid until that day. The hour can also request additional extension of October 17, 2023. I recommend that the board grant that extension. Chairman, the appropriate under the circumstances, keep in mind over the apple for the first necessary extension. I'm sure I hear my move to confirm that any now applicable relief is valid through October 17, 2022, including all applicable tolling. And further move to confirm an extension of relief through October 17, 2023, of course, including any and all applicable tolling. Sarah Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. O'olek. Aye. Ms. Dung. Aye. Mr. Rijero. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligeress. Aye. Aye. Aye. Two amendments support the motion carries. Thank you very much. Probably an extension calling BLA 8433542 Test Number Street. Name and address for the record please. Board of Madam Chair, members of the board. My name's Ian R. Carter from Madam Clennan and Fish at 155 C.P.O.R. of Army Boston, Senate Catherine on keys, the applicant at 42, just a street picking up. Thank you, Councillor regarding party to test, not street, the board originally granted the lead. So this matter on August 7, 2018. The board has since granted two extensions of that relief that expire on August 7, 2022. The first extension however was not necessary because the code was told and applied to the relief. With tolling the expiration of the original grant to the relief should have been November 12, 2021. However, the board granted a second extension of relief until August 7, 2022. I recommend the board for the record that the extension to the compass ball rolling. The applicant now requests additional extensions for August 7, 2023. I recommend the board grant that extension determined that the appropriate under the circumstances keeping in mind that this is the applicant's second extension necessary extended. I'm sure I hear my move to confirm that all relief is valid through August 7, 2022, including any and all applicable tolling. I further move to confirm an additional extension relief through August 7, 2023, which of course would include any and all applicable tolling. Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Erle. Aye. Ms. Dawn. Aye. Mr. Urgiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legrese. Aye. Aye. Mr. Ormond. Aye. Aye. Mr. Omen's support for the motion carries, good luck. Thank you. Following an extra extension, calling B.O.A.93800148, Lightside Avenue. statement acted for the record, please. Madam Chair, memorise the board, I've turned Derek's small. the first two on the top. Thank you, Councilor Regards. The point eight lakeside Avenue. The border originally granted the relief on August 2nd of 2019 and the board granted a first extension of that relief until August 2nd of 2022. However, that first extension was not necessary because the code was calling the price of the relief. With calling this relief, we've been bailed from November 7th, 2022. I recommend that the board prepare for the relief and the main balance for that day. It happened also requests an additional extension to November 7th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant that extension of the determined that it's appropriate on the circumstances. Keep in mind that this will be applicant first necessary extension. I'm sure hereby move to confirm the relief remains valid through November 7th, 2022, including any and all applicable to the tolling. I further move to confirm an extension through November 7th of 2023 for this property, including any and all applicable to the tolling as well. Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Dung. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Lageress. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Aye. I said aye. I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. Aye. I'm in support. Some motion carries. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Thank you very much.했다 Nick. Einequality. Seven, four, eleven, nineteen, nine, ninety-five, one, three, plus the livin. Name an address for the record, please. OK. Here's a hand raised. Let me just make sure. Murray, are you here for that for this call that eleven, nineteen, nineteen, nineteen, nineteen? Hello? Yeah, I am. Can you hear me? Yes, I'm going to make your panel as really quickly. Just give you one second. and was really quickly just one second. You can accept it on your side. Wow. Okay. And then maybe I have a new to you, but if you want to just unmute yourself again, and go ahead. Ah. Marie, go ahead. Just unmute yourself. We can't hate you now. Can you hear me? Oh, yeah. There you go, girl. Okay. My name is Marie Glaser. I'm going to play on contracting 28 Liberty Polaroid and hang on the contractor route for the project for the owner. Thank you, sir. Regarding 1199, cold, free blizzard Avenue, the board originally granted to leave for this matter on August 31, 2018. The board has since granted two extensions of that relief that expire on August 31, 2022. The first extension, however, was not necessary because of the combatone of prices to leave. With polling, the expiration of the original grant to relieve that have been to 76, 2021. However, the board granted a second extension of the relief until August 31, 2022. I recommend that the board confirm for the full record that this extension of the sub-ital goal, the applicant now requires an additional extension of the total August 7, 2023. I recommend that the board grant that extension that determines its appropriate under the circumstances, keeping in mind that this is the only only second applicant necessary extension. Chair, everybody move to confirm the relief remained valid. Remains valid, excuse me, until August 31, 2022, including any in all applicable tolling. I further move to confirm an additional extension through August 7, 2023, which will include, of course, any in all applicable to it. Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Ms. Gong. Aye. Mr. Regiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Liggers. Aye. By two amendments support, some motion carries. You're all set. Following the last case for extension, calling the LA104, 6127201 to 241 Stewart Street. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Attorney Metali Viswas from Bullston and Stores with the business address of 400 Atlantic Avenue in Boston. I'm representing the applicant, 201 Stewart Street owner, LLC. And the council regarding 201, 251 Stewart Street, the board originally granted the relief on August 28, 2000. This means that COVID-19 does not apply, because that date is after the beginning of the state of emergency. However, this matter was appealed to the security court, the litigation polling does apply. This relief would normally expire on August 28, 2022. However, the litigation post with litigation polling, this relief does not expire until August 8, 2023. I recommend it to board the purpose. In front of it, this relief may valid until that date. Chair, I hear like in front of it, I actually should move to confirm the relief remains valid of August 8, 2023 pursuant to litigation polling. Second. Mr. Fartjit. Aye. Mr. Early. Aye. Ms. Dong. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legress. Aye. Aye. I too am in support. It's a motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a good day, everyone. You too. Following the next case, the board final auditor, following the LA 1186589644, the Ministry. David Adress for the record, please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address. 350 West Broadway in South Boston. My client is Timothy Longton. Madam Chair, members, this matter, application for a new nine unit building, at 64 Tolman Street in Dorchester, was approved by the board on June 29th of last year with the proviso of BBDA design review. During the design review process, the BBDA required and implemented a three foot front setback of the building on Tolman Street. This results in two additional spaces in the building's nine tire parking, where I shrink from full-size spaces to compact spaces. With an end result of five compact spaces and four full-size spaces, this hearing is for the board to review and approve this change in the building's footprint and the change to the parking spaces. And I do point out that this application benefits from an off-street parking barrens is granted by the board at the original hearing. I'm sorry, Mr. Murnich, it's five compact and how many are spent? And four full-size, Madam Chair. And I'm assuming that the front yard was for modal purposes. And not for modal, it's really, it was simply the fact that the BBDA wished to have a setback. There's a sidewalk with on Tolman Street is rather narrow. This is a property that's in a commercial zone, commercially in residential that between Nowood Street and Morrissey Boulevard and the BBDA wanted to some setback on the Tolman Street side of the building, tree feet as a matter of fact. And this just resulted in some shrinking of the size of the garage. Sir Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are good and no questions. It does reduce two parking spots, but I think it creates a little bit of a better streetscape. So I have no real issue or questions about the- May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, motion. Sir, second. Second. Mr. Fortune. Madam Chair, I think Mr. Hinton has something to say. I think you missed it. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Just to emphasize, the board required extensive design review on this project. And it was even mentioned that even if it meant decreasing the number of units and or the size of the spaces within this. So I just want to put that on the record that we were following the Director with the board. And has the board brought a design or proof? I believe so, yes. OK. But I just didn't want the board to feel like that BPDA went out on its own. With random. I know. We were following Director from the board on this. I thought it was good to know. Thank you. So we have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Alec. Aye. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Regiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legress. Aye. Mr. Ahn. Looking back to you. Oh, sorry. I said aye. Oh, sorry. I didn't hear you. I too am in support. So motion carries are all set to look. Thank you. Following the next case, the board final auditor calling BLA133-6234-141-D Street. Name it at your morning, I think we. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm support Adam Justin, 53 John Stark, so far. I'm here for one, one, one, D Street with Governor Menman, a one, three, three, five, four, seven, seven, relative to ERT, one, one, zero. I just get to the point and tell us what was approved and what you're requesting. So we haven't approved permit to build a single family, which would be construction on the other amendments. If we could figure the rear decks, basically want to remove the stairs from the decks. It triggered the rear yard setback, which was already approved for the ERT permit. So what was the rear yard that was approved and what's the rear yard under this, under your request? The rear yard that was approved was 8.5 inches. We're not changing that. We're just removing the stairs. Okay. And this is a single family. Correct. How are the plants, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine, but let me just, the board find Oliver aspect of this is for the addition of the roof deck. Is that not correct? No, I think we went through a lot of back and forth and Mr. Gaspin and ISD claimed that the roof deck is as a fright, so we are not considering that. I understand. No, no. I understand. No, no. No questions on the rear side by changing. And yes, so thank you for raising that because I want to make it clear to everybody who's must think today that this approval is solely for those rear decks. So may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Second. Okay. Let me go through the roll call. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Dom. Mr. Rojiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legress. Aye. Aye. I too, I'm in support. Some motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case with G-CRA, case BOA 132 165473P, can you name an address for the director? So good morning. My name is David Fried and I'm with two in company architects in quitsy mass. We're here to get approval from the board for Article 32 compliance for a 73P. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Seminelli. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Christian Seminelli-Boss and Rauwart Trust and we have both letters from me out. Madam Chair and secretary, we have both letters as well. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second, Legress. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Mr. Ojiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligress. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Two in support. Some motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Good. I call the 930 hearings. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. The furl is a little bit more than the 930 cases. I guess reluctantly I'm making this request because I know what the board for deferral because I know what the board schedule is for the cases. But I received a call on Friday informing me that the plans that the architect has stated an address of 19 Jones Avenue instead of 21 Jones Avenue. And that I needed to submit corrected plans with the address of 21 Jones Avenue so that could be stamped by the plan examiner. So the only difference is between the only difference is the change of address between the two sets of plans. But I requested her to furrow and would hope that if that's a path I need to go Madam Chair. Rather than something else then. That makes sense because it keeps the record clean. May I have a motion to defer? There are a second. All those in favor? I'm sorry. I have to retrain myself. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. Oleg. Hi. Mr. Rijiro. Hi. Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Lageress. Hi. Eyet lend support of good luck, Mr. Finance of the date, please. At the date of August nine at 1130.เคc you then. Thank you very much. The first of the capital is the 930 cases only address first. Eric Manon, by the first case. Following the LA127-9637185 London Street. This is in Terry Framing and MEFIR, except for the third and fourth floor decree that honor, October and ADU on the fourth level. The violation is Article 53, Article 56, Article 56, Article 5353, Section 9, the floor, the erase of the excessive, Article 53, Section 9, the bill has excessive story, Article 53, Section 9, the bill has excessive feet. Name it address for the record, please. Hi, there's a raise hand. Get it one second. Michael, are you going to give testimony to your panelist so you can unmute yourself? I'm in opposition to the project. Okay, come on. Is anyone speaking on behalf of this project? Yes, I'll speak. I'll speak on behalf of a neighbor. No, the applicant, please. Who is the applicant on this? Let's move on to the next project. In my... Hello? Hello, could I get a message? This is the applicant that has technical difficulties. Maybe one here, me. Yes, please put your name and address on the record. I apologize for that, yes. Esther Leibniz and Marko Leibniz from the Sun were the owner occupants and the developers for the project. The 185 London Street. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed. What we're proposing is an existing structure that was four stories for a CPA parry that was granted on November 10th. If you could slide down, we'll just get to the CBA hearing items, all of which were approved except the one we are hearing. That was the goal for the density of three to four units, or with the buyer. Okay, so please rewind please. So you've got a pool for us to change occupancy through at three families. That would you tell me? No, ma'am. So backtrack and just tell us in words what the story is. The words, okay, there was, let me start from the beginning. Project was acquired in March 10th pre-COVID. We went through COVID. We were granted on November 10th, 2020, a height variance, 30 to 40, four area ratio from 0.99 to 0.192. I said that. Was that for a change of occupancy or was it, what is the occupancy on the building? Current occupancy is three units. And that time it did not include it. I mentioned these because there were references, rejection left, and the only material request that we're seeking today is going from a three to a four family on the top floor. Okay, so this is a request for a, and who owns the property? We own our own occupancy. Mr. Lima's, Marko's, Lima's, owns the property. And which unit do you guys live in? Third floor. You guys living the third floor. Okay. And tell us about the dimensions of that fourth unit that you're proposing as an ADU. The dimensions would be in the two bedroom, consisting approximately 60 feet out to the deck wide. Excuse me, long and approximately 24 wide, as for the plants, it should in the last part of the slide. And what's the size of the unit? Size of the property. Total square feet? It's approximately 800 square feet. As guesstimate, or? And is this for a family member? Yes. Okay. And tell us about the lease agreement. Should you sell that unit, your unit? Will that, will that ADU, is there something that states that that ADU will be vacated? We don't intend to sell this as a family property. Yeah. You know, intentions, we, you know, we know life changes. So we, and our approval goes with the property. Does not go with the owner. So we need to look at the long term. So you need to tell us how the neighborhood will be protected. So this stays as an ADU and doesn't change into a four family. I thought that's what we were requesting today is to be changed to a four family. No, you're requesting for the additional unit to be an ADU. And the requirements for ADU are very specific. So we would put in the lease agreement, or if we sell, it goes back to a three. Okay. Madam Chair, may I speak on this? Yes. So this project is an eligible for the ADU program. And if it were, it would not be before the board. So our recommendation on this was deferral, because if they're just extending living space, then it should be that these plants are mislabeled. They have ADU written all over the place. And my question, as you would see in our recommendation, is if this is indeed being changed from a three family to a four family. And if it is, then we'd like it deferral, because I don't think anywhere in the refusal letter, does it say that specifically when it's a three family zoning district? So it's forbidden use. I see. So if they're looking to change from a three to a four, I think you would have to defer this. That's not what is being asked. So let me make it clear from the applicant's perspective, what are you proposing to do? I'm going to be proposing to do just that. So I'm going to go from a three unit to a four unit, as for the recommendation IST plan reviewer. May I have a motion for deferral? So moved. Is there a second? Check it. Mr. Fortune. You have it. Yes. I'm Mr. Holland. Mr. Dawg. I'm Mr. Rogero. Hi. Mr. Roberts. Hi. Mr. Legress. Hi. I too, Mr. Ford. Please, Mr. Fortune, the date. I'm going to give a date of September 13th. Okay. So make sure to the applicant that you get a new refusal letter that clearly says what your intention is. Thank you. Thank you. Have a great day. Madam Chair, if I could, could I ask Mr. Hampton a question about why this is not eligible for the immediate program? I would like to ask Mr. Smith to give a question. I would like to ask Mr. Smith to give a question. Is it an LLC? The names in the LLC? Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, on that one, they would have to be re-advertised because you're adding an additional violation. Right. Got it. I know a few people on that. I found out that Senator Edwards was on to give testimony here. So it is deferred until September. September 13th. Okay. All right. 1130. Thank you. Madam Chair. I have a question. Mr. Smith, can you please email chat to you and to Mr. Irle. Regarding the previous case, 21 Jones Avenue. Sorry, Mr. Forgin can you please recall Jones Avenue so we can get it into the record. And let's get a new date from Mr. Paste. Mr. Feaster, he will be away. Okay. I'll be away to 1.290. 1.0921. Go on that, and maybe that just for the next week. Thank you very much. It's the Secretary Madam Chair, member of the board, Joseph Feaster, Lord Firm of Daintor B 175, Federal Street in Boston. Okay, the approval was far to far. Let's get a new date. Will you be back in September, Mr. Feaster? Yes, I will be Madam Chair. I will be the date of September 13th at 1130. Okay, see you then. Enjoy the summer. Thank you very much. Okay, call the next case. Call the BLA132-855-8C, all state roads. This is an interior tenant foot out, exterior door window modifications, the date from the hopper pack to a total wine liquor store. The violation is out of 65, section 15. Lucas Goe used the conditional. Name and address for the record list. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Matt Fitzgerald from DLA Piper with a business address of 33 Archie, Boston, on behalf of the proponent, Massachusetts Fine Wine and Spirits LLC. I am joined this morning by Christopher Tracy from Neil Associates in Bob Schiefer from Total Wine and More. Madam Chair, members, today we are seeking conditional use permit for a change of occupancy from office retail store to liquor store, located at 8C, all state road and doorchester, which is located in the South Bay, a sanitary and doorchester from the former office max space. This is in a community commercial subnistrict within the door chest, the neighborhood district, that is governed by Article 65. Mr. Fitzgerald, please give us details. I was a corporation square footage, so we can get a sense of what the impact might be. The square footage balance here is 23,000, a parking point, 23,400 square feet. I was a corporation, I will ask if Bob Schiefer from Total Wine can actually speak to the operations. If the board would like to hear it from him now, that's probably as far as the hours of operation to carry the systems to the floor. Yeah, I mean, this is because this is a conditional use, so we can figure out what the conditions are. If there any that we should place on this. So Mr. Schiefer, put your name and address in the record and give us details, please. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Robert Schiefer. My address is 6600 Rock Laged Drive, the 10th of the Maryland 20817. I work for Total Wine and More. Madam Chair, the hours of operation are Monday through Saturday, and we open at 9 a.m. in the morning and close at 9 p.m. I think those are the correct hours. I apologize, I'm gonna check while we're conducting the hearing, but I think that's the hours of operation permitted by law. And what about Saturday, Sunday hours? Madam Chair, I don't know the Sunday hours, I apologize, I'm gonna have to check on that and get back to you if you don't mind. Yes, okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. It's an abandoned storefront. Looks like they're just on the exterior redefining. I think there's a question, I guess I have a question about the signage package, which is not part of this approval, but should be part of it with the BPA. So, no questions on the proposed go, Braila. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the Mayor's Office and the Services. So despite opposition, small business planings, the proposal received an enormous support from the licensing board in January, and based on their promises to provide ample security, lighting and community benefits, the new market business association and the inter square-sided association, powdering letters of support. The McCormick's that the association has voted in opposition, at this time, our office looked at the third to the board's judgment. Mr. McLean, what are the hours of operation that were approved by the licensing board? Because we need to make sure that they are respected when we look at this proposal. Mr. Wynn from the Mayor's Office and the Neighbour and Services. Sorry, I don't have those details. Madam Chair, this is Chris Tracy with the applicant. Yes, Mr. Woodard, just hold on. Let me just go through testimony. Anybody else to speak, either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, all solid Councilor Blash, Michael Plierty, Council to go on record and support. Madam Chair, Secretary, here, we do have some letters of support. I don't see any letters of opposition, and I'm trying to look at the time. They have submitted something here from the licensing board, but I don't see anything where it has time. Is anybody here from the new market? Yes, Ben Murphy here from the market is the suburban district I'm here to speak in support. Ben, do you have an idea of what the proposed hours of operation are? I'm like everyone else, I'm afraid that I am not aware of those. We should make sure that's on the record. Madam Chair, this is Robert Schaeff, I would like to... No, no, hold on. Anybody else to speak, either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair. Go ahead, sir. We say can you name it? Hi, Madam Chair, this is Ronald Rhodes, the business manager of the company, it's 327 in Boston, and we have full support of this project. Thank you. We are from my great... My name is... Yeah, hey, Michael Ossiel, I have an office over here on MassSF, 1252 MassSF, I just want to speak in full support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here, they're closing hours at 10 p.m. And do they have Sunday operation? I'm looking forward to very drawn-off believers, I tell you that. I bet, I bet. In the meantime, let me go back, because I want full acknowledgement from a total wind, since you are not in state. Give me the hours of our operation for the record, please. Yes, this is Robert Schaeff, for total wind. The hours of operation are 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Sunday, Saturday, and 10 a.m. through 8 p.m. on Sunday. Okay. Okay. So we have that on the record. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with two providers, BPD, a design review for signage, which we'll go there anyways, and the provides over the hours of operation. 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to eat me a much on the... Thank you, Zara, second. I'll second that, Eric. Mr. Fortune. I... Mr. Alec. Third. Ms. Dong. I... Mr. Rajiro. Nothing. Mr. Robins, could you... I... Mr. Legris. What? I two women's support, so motion carries. Good luck with those providers. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, board members. Following the next case, calling B.O.A. 1-28-065-19, Batch Elder Street. This is the extension of living space into the basement for unit 1, renovation of unit 2, and extension it to the Attic at Unit 2. Deck alterations. The Violet. A new door, new dollars. The Violet is not a 50-section 29. A Florida ratio is excessive. Not a 50-section 29. The rear yet is insufficient. May I have an address for the record please? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, and members of the board, attorney David Klik, Neil and Neil and Klik, 85 Main Street, Hawkinson. On behalf of the applicant, B.O.A.L.A., LLC, I'm here with me today is the architect, Louis Colton, as well. So tell us quickly what's being proposed. Is this occupancy currently a two-family? I was currently a two-family. It was pre-existing a five-bedroom two-bathroom. It was purchased January 2020. It has a lot of dimensions of 35 feet. 37 feet. So let's just ask you, so was this purchased as a two-family? Or where did you get your occupancy from? So the appellant at the time, it was purchased as a two-unit. So the renovations were performed on the property. And Madam Chair, this is really where this comes into play as it was. So tell us about the expansion into the basement. What isn't dissipated in that basement space? So if actually there's a... Tell us what drawing to go to. If I could actually have commanded the screen just to make sure that I have the play. You have not appeared before this board before. So we just tell us which drawings... Madam and Madam Chair, A2.1. A2.1, let's go. Next one up. Okay. So tell us about the proposed use in the basement. So the proposed use in the basement would be for a two-bed, two-bath. And then, so there's two units. The first unit is the basement and first floor, two bedrooms in the basement, two-bath. And then a bedroom on the first floor, as well as dining and living space, with a rear egress off the back edge of the property that you can see clouded here in blue. Okay, so tell us a couple of things. What's the floor to ceiling height in that basement? The floor to ceiling height is... If I could just refer to the architect, I believe it's a little over eight feet. Actually, it may be shown on the last... on the last schematic. May I recommend that anybody who appears before this board and you know you're anticipated to appear? Please watch a previous hearing so you understand our sequence of questioning. It's dimensioned at eight foot on S2.2 clearance. Okay. And tell us, Councillor, we need to hear from you and your architect. What's the floor to ceiling height if you're proposing any window wells? And where do the window wells open into? Because you need to know that clearly this board is not a great fan of bedrooms in the basement. We need to put that out there very clearly to you. Okay, if you'd like. Give us the details about the occupancy in the basement. Okay, there are arts as far as from the plan S shown as A2.1. There are two window wells. One in the rear of the building and to the right side along the... I believe it is the eastern edge. Is that a driveway? Yes, there is actually a 12.5 foot wide driveway on the right side running the length of the building down to the end. Okay. And how is this... Is there a possibility for access? Should it be required from this window well without being hampered by a vehicle? You're on the left. Madam Chair, I would... That's a fair question. I would believe just given the width of the driveway is 12.5 feet. There would be... You would have the ability to do that, but I would also... Okay, then final question is... Is the utility space accessible from the exterior and not through the unit unit? Madam Chair, I might be able to support that question if I heard... Who is this... To name an address on the record and answer the question please? Lewis Colton, architect for the project, registered architect of the record. My address is in 9 Vernon Street, Framingham, Massachusetts 01701. So, let us know, is that utility unit... Utility space accessible outside of the... Of that residential proposed space and the basement? Yes, it is. And the question with regards to the window well with any interference of the driveway... There is a... The purpose of the driveway is for a single car unit. So, the vehicle is going back to there so that it does not in any manner... Endanger the other window well and access to that window well for egress. And so, while we have you on, tell us about the extension, the proposed extension into the attic? Yes, that's okay with everyone. The attic originally, if you look on the drawing... The existing condition had a two-bedroom and closet originally in the attic. The renovation of the work then made revisions to those bathrooms and add to those bedrooms and added a bathroom. And added a utility and a laundry room. That was done in a fashion which did not increase the FAR that area. It was done with, if you'll notice, on the... The cover drawing and on drawing are 1.1. It's what's known as a peekaboo dormer, the dormer did not extend out past the... The line of the roof, it actually goes into the space. So, if anything, we actually decrease the FAR for the ad to that purpose. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. I think there are no issue with the attic. I think that's fine. The basement is... There's no second bedroom actually shown. The utility is accessed directly through the unit, at least for the plans. That's all I can review. So that doesn't seem to be the case. And the lower level is below grade. I mean, these are typical window well units that the board is not so excited about. So I think the basement expansion is a problem because of the bedrooms as presented. No other questions? Okay. Is anybody here to speak either... Oh, sorry. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Keisha Santana from the Office of Neighborhood Services. Some background information on the community process is the abouters where all in support. There is no indication of opposition and at this time we're referring to the board. Madam Chair, I know where these things are at the moment. And there's nobody from the sleep counselor's office? Madam Chair, secretary here. I mean, I do have a signature page of 50 signatures in support. Okay. Okay. So I'm looking at the violations. And the violations are the rear yard and the FAR that are the violations. Okay. So, working on these and given Mr. Robinson's concerns, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion for approval with a provider that there be no bedrooms in the basement. Is there a second? I'll second that, Eric. Okay. And here I go. I'm going to be dreaming your names for the number of times. I want to be repeating them today. And please, if you could do a spell check on Mr. Fortune's name. So we have it right on the screen. Mr. Fortune? It's a raw image anyway. Yes. It's not like my image either. It's totally incognito here. Mr. Fortune? I'm in favor, yes. Mr. Eric? Hi. Mr. Long? Hi. Mr. Ruggiero? Mr. Robinson? Hi. Thank you, Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Legress? Hi. I too am in support so the motion carries with that provider. Following an ad, Madam Chair, any way we can get some design review over on that? Yes, Liz. I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. Yes, you're right because let's have a amended amended motion because we need to ensure that there is no bedroom in that basement. I'll be having to accept that as an amendment. And second, I'll second that, Eric. And we've gone through the roll call. So I'm assuming that I will just take it on the record that nobody has any issues with it. Next case? Following the next case, calling the OA 132-8912-951-959-A, go to the justice avenue. This is a change of opportunity and use of a commercial space at 951.go to justice to revenue to include a local retail business, allowed youth, and an accessory package store. Likestoy has the bid news. And a bakery use is additional. No change to the plan. The violation, Article 65, that can aid. Bigly used is conditional and Article 65, Section 8, Likestoy, please be coded. Name an ad just for the record. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzula, Environment, Quilty, and Miller, 28 State Street, Suite 802 in Boston. With me today is Peter McGee, and Adam Sirebaw from the Dorchester Market. Madam Chair, this is seeking permission to change occupancy of one of the commercial spaces on the ground floor at this building. It's an in construction building. It's ongoing construction right now. This was an overall Article 80 small project review project approved by this board back in April of 2018. And what's being proposed is to add a retail package store, a small retail package store, liquor store use, and a bakery use to the market, which was an existence at this location before construction of the new building. And that would provide for a limited takeout of beer and wine only in bakery items to accompany the long standing market concept at the premises. It's been there for 65 plus years. Okay, so Mrs. Sizzula, I'm looking at the drawings correctly. Yes ma'am. The yellow highlighted areas is the alcohol, where is the bakery use? The bakery use, well, so it's a bakery is defined under the code, Madam Chair, is a place where baked goods are made or sold for off-premise consumption. So it's really not a bakery use in a traditional sense. So you could get your donut with your beer for tea. If you are so inclined, Madam Chair. I've got it. Yeah, so it was more, again, that was more of just looking at the code and understanding that, you know, as an option to be able to make a baked good and what that actually is defined as. So there's traditional bakery and you're right, we try to be very specific as to where this beer and wine would be located. You can see here on the plan up in front of the board. It's a 10 foot wine rack display and a 6 foot beer rack display. And it's 100, 100 market. Sorry, and it's an accessory use. Let's see, what are the hours? Yes, ma'am. So the typical hours are anticipated as 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. for the market. We do still need to go to the liquor licensing board for approval of the issuance of the license. So they would also condition the hours. I believe the license would go to 11 p.m. But we're not planning to necessarily be open badly. Okay. So we're looking at 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. However, you know, the license would go until 11 p.m. And so we need to acknowledge that this is an accessory use. It's not a main use and it's less than 25% of the flow area. Much less madam chair. Yeah, to be clear, though, madam chair on the accessory use. We're calling it an accessory use. But the refusal letter just has it as liquor store for it. No, I see that and that's why I wanted to make sure that we are not approving. So the jacket doesn't look like we're approving a full liquor store. We are proposing approving just this accessory use. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The answer, very clear and straightforward. No questions from me. Any questions from the boy? Well, there will be a change in the exterior. So much. Mr. Arlick, there will be additional signage. We did go to design review for the overall project back in 2018. However, to be 100% candid, that is a bad image of the signage will change. So there would need to be design reviews for signage. That's your question. Yes. Yes. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. George Wynn with the Mayors' Office of Nick-it Services. Our office hosted in a butters meeting for the proposal on May 17th. And while a few neighbors spoken opposition, believing that we're hurt business at adjacent liquor stores, a majority of folks on the call will always stay support. And over 100 of butters have written letters to support for the return of doorchester market and owner Peter. Who has over 50 years of experience operating here? Yes, we remember. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Joe McGack and Steve Council, Frank Baker's office, who lead to board reckoning support. Madam Chair and members of the board also, City Council, large record flurry. Council, Joe, record support. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have those letters of support and opposition that the Mayors are on the floor. Okay. Mr. Ambassador, any more raised hands? No, ma'am. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with the BPE design of you for its serious language. Second. And to acknowledge that this is an accessory use. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for jumping the down. Mr. O'Ley. Right. Ms. Dong. Mr. Rijiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. All right. Mr. Ligris. Aye. Aye. I too am in support of motion carries the vote. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Mr. O'Ley. Kevin Joyce, Dirty Laura, I was 50 Franklin Street. My appearance is limited to the board of a field here. Representing petitioners, respectfully requested the call for brief time so that we can conclude negotiations in the community. I'm going to leave the room for a minute. Please have a motion. I'll make a motion to defer here. Second. Second, Ken Ligress. Mr. Fortune. Mr. Joyce, would you be the 23rd? I'm in favor of the borough. Mr. O'Ley. Aye. Ms. Don. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligress. Aye. Aye. I too am in support of the borough. Motion carries may have a date, please. Mr. Joyce, when is the meeting? Because they could set a date for August 23rd or September 13th. I think August 23rd would be fine. I will do August 23rd at 1130. Thank you, sir. Well, are there any other deferrals to 1030? Or withdrawals to 1030? They're in no go back to the 930s. On the next case, calling BLA128-047-218-Hendry Street. This is parking for two spaces next to the helm. The violation, Article 65, Section 9, side yacht isn't sufficient. Name an address for the record, please. 1030s-3-0. Hi, if you're on the entry, can you raise your hand? Okay, I do have a hand raise on the top. Emily, is this your... Are you ready? Sorry, no. I can count your box office. I just was taking a call. Did two, 91, just get deferred? I just want to be sure. Two, 91, begin. Yes. Okay. Okay. Let's just move on. Is anybody here for the endries? Mr. Whitaker here? Okay, if not, let's go on to the next case. Only the next case, calling BLA128-3621-118-R. Holmes Avenue. This is directly a new three-file residential dwelling with roof deck and existing rail vacant lot of 4,091 square feet. It proposed 610-3-5. The violation, Article 65, Section 65-41.4 parking in the front yacht. Article 65, Section 65-415-5 parking side maneuverability. Article 65, Section 8. Three F and a two F is forbidden. Article 65, Section 42.13. Two more drawings on the same lot. Article 65, Section 9. A lot of areas in sufficient. Article 65, Section 9. A lot of frontages in sufficient. Article 65, Section 9. The flu and air ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9. The bill has excessive in story. Article 65, Section 9. Array, odd, insufficient. Name it, and address for the record, please. Morning, Mr. Chairman. My name is Anthony Monahan. I am the owner of the lot. I am out of 18 Rock Island Road and Quincy Mass. So tell us what you're proposing to do. So we own a lot that's been needed. I want to make this clear. We're not sub-evading this lot. It's been needed as a separate lot since the 50s. Carly and we are proposing a three-family dwelling, residential dwelling on this lot. There is an easement, driveway easement that's shared with the building in front of it. That is, again, been in place since the 50s. We are just looking to build something on this lot. It's 4,491 square feet. And we like to build something. So this is a 44-91 square feet. What's the zoning in this district? It is a 2,000, 5,000. And you are already below the basic requirement of a 5,000 square foot lot to build one family or two family. And you are requesting a three-family? Yes, that is correct. Okay. So tell us you have a number of violations here. Tell us about how you are going to propose parking and how it's proposed to work. Sure. Thank you. So in the, as you see, the image up here, there's a driveway, a shared driveway with the front. Then there is a, there's three existing parking spaces for the building in the front that are existing. On the line, there's currently events that separate the two logs. And then you'll see, we originally proposed three parking spaces after meeting with the neighborhood extensively. They asked for some more parking so we turned the three parking spaces into tandem spaces, creating six parking spaces for the three family. Okay. And what are the proposed sizes of the units and the bedroom count? So there's three units. We had originally all two bedroom two bath after meeting with the neighborhood. They wanted us to change one of them to a three bedroom to invite more of a family atmosphere. So they're all roughly 900 to a thousand square feet. The first two floors are two bed two bath. The popcorn is a three bed two bath. And one one three bed. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are fine. Excuse me. In terms of the proposal. Can I just ask the proponent one question? Looks like there is a couple of other rear buildings on the street. 104 R 122 R. Can you just just tell me what those, what's this? Are there one family two family? What are those? Those are, I know there's multiple one families. I believe one of them is a two family. I'm not exactly sure, but yes, there are. These, this whole street has rear lots set behind all the, or many of the buildings for some reason. And they, they were there 70 plus years ago and many of the neighbors have built structures in the rear. There are singles and doubles though. I don't think there are any three families come. Any questions, Mr. Domingo? Can you put your concerns on the record? Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Bob and Michael B.T.D. I'd like to request any front yard parking to be removed. And secondly, I'd like to see spaces one and three be removed for safe and adequate maneuverability. So you remove space one and three plus front yard parking? Correct. So what does that, what, what would that in essence leave the proposal with? How many spaces? Let's see. There are two spaces on the side parking number five and six. I think it's four, five, six and eight. It will leave with eight spaces. Okay. Okay. Any other questions to record? Yes, I would like to ask the board to ask questions. Can everybody please mute themselves? Any questions from the board? Yes, just put a three family under 5,000 square foot lot in the rear of an existing lot. Seems excessive. It's not so much a question as a comment. I would like to hear to speak either in support or in opposition. And please, after you've put your comments in, lower your hand. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Denise DeSansouls from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant did me with the butters back in 2021, as well as the Greater Board and Geneva Association a few different times back in 2021 as well. And the butters did have concerns around privacy with the three decker coming up next to them, overpowering as and as well as density as the applicant stated Greater Board and Geneva did want to see more parking spaces and the applicant did, you know, show them that, present them that. And they did want to see a three bedroom unit. There was no negative pushback outside of density and just privacy concerns and affordability at this time. That sounds like a lot of concerns, density, privacy, parking and affordability. Okay, thank you. Anybody else to speak on the record? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Luster and Susan McKenzie. We're from 112 homes avenue. We're butters to that 118. Weird. This property we've been in this property for over 40 years. There's never been anything bigger than a one family. It was zoned for either a garage or one family home for them to want to allow a three family. We're not enough space. There's not enough room. And I have to hear anyone. I was at all of the meetings. They know one aspect of the family. We really didn't want to family. But we know that the determine to put something much bigger than will be appropriate in this lot and in this area. Okay, thank you. I also agree with you. What Luster? You better agree with your wife. We have almost as gentle with many times and there were no requests. There were no requests for a three or a three bedroom on top of the two. Also, we've been here for a long time and there's only one house on the back of a lot here on Ohm's Ave going down to to top lift. We have just one house that have a building behind it. And we explain it and talk about that and all of these objections here. Why that building should not be put there. Thank you. We have a very long agenda. So thank you and your wife for for logging in. Anybody else? Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair, Secretary, one letter of opposition against the three members. Mr. Hampton. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hampton, BPD. We recommended to not without prejudice. We feel that proposal is excessive. If they want to come back with a lower unit count where it's more appropriate for the zoning district, we may entertain that, but we're going to post this project. Okay. Give an order. I have a motion. Please. May I have a motion? Motion is denied without prejudice. I'll second that, Eric. Okay. Mr. Horton. I. Mr. Oleg. Mr. Miss. Miss. Don. I. Mr. Zero. I. Mr. Robinson. I. Mr. Lagerus. I. I. I. Two. I'm in port of the motion. So it's been denied without prejudice. Thank you. Thank you. Going to the next case, calling BLA1315141116 Church Street. This erected three family residential dwelling, the violation of the 5565-1R Street, by the Constitution. The 65-section to conformity existing building alignment. Article 65-65-14.3 traffic visibility across the corner. Article 65-32. This is the neighborhood design overlay district. Article 65-section 9, a lot of areas in sufficient. Article 65-section 9, a lot of width is in sufficient. Article 65-section 9, a lot of frontages in sufficient. Article 65-section 9, a Florida area ratio is excessive. Article 65-section 9, a bill ahead of success of its story. Article 65-section 9, a front yard is in sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Amspitz with Adams and Mariancie with the business address of 168H Street First Floor, South Boston. With me today are the owners Sean George and Scott Kirkwood. This is a proposal to erect a traditional style three family dwelling with two off street parking spaces on a approximately a 2650H Riftwood. This proposal was located within a three F-5000 sub district. The three units will be approximately 1779 square foot each with the total living area accumulated to 3,257 square feet. Unit 1, unit 2 and unit 3 will all marry each other with the layout consisting of a three bedroom on each floor, a three living area, two baths as well. The proposed F-8R is a 1.22 and a 0.5 is what is allowed by the code here. Building height and height is actually compliant at 33 feet. But it's excessive with the stories we're proposing three stories and compliant as a 2.5. As you can see here we've been cited for conformity of the existing building alignment as well as the area with the frontage. But as seen consistent with the neighborhood in the other lots in aligned with the existing other families in this neighborhood is intact. Let's ask you a couple of questions. Is there any occupancy in the basement? No, it's going to be just storage in the basement. Okay, so tell us about the parking, the driveway with and the number of spaces. So there's going to be two parking spaces that are going to be accessed on Newfield Street. The parking spaces are going to be 8.5 by 20 feet and then the second parking space will be 8 feet by 20 feet. The curb cut that's being proposed is an 18 foot curb cut again on Newfield Street. Also something else that I think it's worth pointing out is that we were cited for the traffic visibility on Fifth Field Street. As you can see is on church street no matter which direction you head and that Fifth Field Street is a one way street. So I think it was important to highlight that as well. Okay, and is there a roof deck proposed? No, there is no advantage. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Robinson? OK, ends are good. I think in general the size and scale is fairly consistent with the street. Obviously it's a little bit of a smaller lot. I do have and I'm sure Mr. Domingo will have a question about the parking because there's an extra large 18 foot curb cut on the back to achieve the two spots. But other than that there is no occupancy in the basement. So no other questions for me. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of an opposition of this proposal? Running Madam Chair, members of the Board against the San social mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant did me with direct the butter's back in May as well as the Meeting Hill House neighborhood association. A butter's would like to see a fence alongside the property as well as lighting. At this time of office would like to defer any judgment to the board. Thank you. From morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, jump in the air. Please count so the three biggest office would like to go on record in support. Madam Chair, members of the Board, I say we can have the last mega clarity. Councilor General, record in support. Madam Chair, secretary here, I do have a few letters of support. I thought you have a question. Do you want to get to someone here? Madam Chair, members of the Board, welcome to the meeting will be today. And I'm just wondering, is there any parking where the curb kind is going to go? Madam Chair, is there any on street parking? Is that your question? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the Board, there is no parking on that side. That is too good. Okay, then that's fine. Okay. The Jeff Hampton, you live in a good testimony here and see your hand this way. Congratulations. Sorry, he's got to put it down. But we, well, since I'm on, we're on the record for approval with design review, please. Thank you. Okay, so may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review, as well as looking to see if they can reduce the curb cut at all to be a little bit more pedestrian friendly from 18. Okay. There's second. Okay. Mr. Parchin. Hi. Miss Dalai. Hi. Miss Dong. Mr. Ruggiero. Hi. Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Lagerus. Hi. Miss Dong. I'm sorry. I said hi. I'm sorry. I'm just having our time hearing today and I, too, I'm in support. So motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. On the next case, following the LAA 133 4896 240 NOLL3, this erected two families while I'm on a vacant lot, the violation of Article 65 Section 2 conforming and existing building alignment. Article 65 Section 41, Article 35, Article 65 Section 9, a lot of areas insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, brought with this insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, brought with this insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, 28 ratio is excessive. And Article 65 Section 9, the side guard, is insufficient. A man addressed for the rectification. Yes. Point Madam Chairman is the board of turning carrots small. But this is, if you want, this is address of one doubts and rule. I'm sure we're here today seeking relate to record two families, well, not making that. So they said district here is a three F6000. Our lot size is 2200 square feet. The violation of those follows. A lot area insufficient. Again, we have to be to other square feet, brought with by the punches to requirement is 50 feet. We have to be free feet. FAR requirement is 0.4. We are proposing 0.59. The side yard, the requirement is 10 feet. We have to be close by. And with regards to all street parking, Madam Chair, we are proposing two compact spaces. We are the property. The units are one bedroom, one bath. One is approximately six feet. And unit two is approximately seven feet. Madam Chair, I'm sorry they have both one bedroom. That is correct. One bed, one bath. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The lands are pretty straightforward. The parking spot, the setback is on the right hand side, which is tighter. There is a driveway on the left hand side. Just not exactly sure how to get into the parking spots. But they don't seem pushed back behind the building far enough in the site plan. But no other questions for me in terms of the size and scale. It's pretty consistent. It's a smaller lot for certain. Yes, it's quite undersized. Quite undersized. Yeah. Let's see any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of the proposal? We're learning Madam Chair, members of the board, Denise, the Santos here, from the air's office of the neighborhood services. The applicant did me with the direct the butters back in March of 2022, as well as while coalition a few different times around this. First, we're concerned around the neighborhood development projects being proposed on rural street and they would like to see this sold as affordable units. At this time, we're like to defer our judgments of the board. Thank you. So, Mr. Santos, there are a number of D&D projects that will be affordable. How many do you have a sense in that street? I know there's one D&D project near this specific location that they're proposing at the moment. Derek can attest to that. Okay. Anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? For the residents here, we do have a letter of support from the cloud from able to file coal. Yes, sweet. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So, Mr. Small, have you seen the BPDAs recommendation? I have. Okay. And it's doable? Yes. Okay. Given all this information, may I have a motion? Which part of the year information? The BPDAs proposing recommending approval with provides of a design review with an effort that the existing trees be protected. That's fine. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review for site plans specifically existing trees to be retained. Third. Second. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Erlich. Aye. Ms. Dong. Aye. Mr. Rijiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Lagerus. Aye. I do am in support of the motion to the motion for approval with design review carries. Thank you very much. The next case following the LAA 1322128 74R5 street. The looking to a 16 foot by 25 foot long 13 foot high 4 foot 3 fabricated metal garage. The back yard of the property. The property has a decent driveway reading the rail. The violation of article 669. The way out is insufficient. An article 669. The way out is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. The morning manager and member of the board. My name is Carl Bounton and my fiance Joanna Asabedo. We are here for 74th favorite street in Madagascar. And we're looking to erect a metal garage. Metal shed. However, you want to look at it in the back of the yard yard. Okay. So I see the plans. Okay. Yes. Please. So let's just see where it's proposed to go. Yes. If you look at the top right, this proposed concrete area. That's where the concrete slab will be poured. It's five feet away from the back fence and the side fence as well. And this is a garage for a car or for storage? Both. And this is a garage in a way. And you know, it's no going on. That's have a thing. Okay. Okay. Have you checked out any other options? No. Okay. How are the plans for Sarabanson? Plans are pretty straightforward. One question for the proponent. So just the driveway currently go that far back into the site. It's a hard to tell. So the driveway goes up to you see where right behind the stairs are in the back. Where the fences. It's right. It ends there. So I would have to pour asphalt to connect the garage to the. To where they ask for a line is right now. Okay. Okay. Well, I know further questions. Any questions from the boy? Yes. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Eric James of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for 74 favors street had the butter's meeting on May 18, 2022. They also attempted to meet with the Colorado street. Citizens group twice, but cancel due to it was can to do to technical difficulties. And they also agreed not to visually disturb the community and have provided list of homes in close vicinity to the proposal with attached carriages. At this time, the GM and C has decided not to support. We. Right this time the mayor's office would like to defer its agenda of the board on this matter. Thank you. And Madam, try out the over it's. Just to fortune anything in the record? No, Madam. Okay. We have nothing. Okay. Given that information may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'm going to go against Mr. Hampton's recommendation. I think there should be design review for this just to make sure that. It's adequately screened and offered on the backyard and the connection of the additional driveway is done properly. Is there a second? Second. And I. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. O'Ley. I. Miss. Don. I. Mr. Rijiro. I. Mr. Robinson. I. Mr. Legress. I. I. I. Two on supports a motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the L.A. 131555815 Bell Avenue. It's an addition of a second story over the original, original house of the first existing first floor. The violates the article 56. Section 8. Flood erase shows excessive article 56 section 8 open spaces and precision. Article 56 section 8 array out of the suspicion and article 56 section 8 beside the ad is insufficient. Copy that. Thank you. That's true. Evening address for the mam 0 the library. Good morning. mein name is Timothy berk. The architect for the project and i have a business address of 142 m obviously. And with me are the owner. Of the house, who will be living in house. So, Mr Bóädg.ас. What's being parts. It's an existing one story goat. Knox. You can see the not the lot is kind of narrow. But the owners are looking to grow their family here. They would like to add on a second floor. We would be adding on 942 square feet to provide three bedrooms and two bathrooms on the second level and to improve the first floor living spaces thereby. We're also moving the front door to face the street, which currently it faces the side yard. Okay, and so it's a three bedroom. Any so basement just has a laundry bathroom. What is that space that the real propose in the basement? That is an ADU that the owner has had approved. Yes. And how large is that ADU? I want to remember it's around 700 square feet. And that's for a family member? I believe I'm not sure who. I don't think it's a family member in there, but I don't know. Sure, I can ask them about that. Okay, so is this a one family or a two family? That's a one family with an ADU. Yes. And please, if this gets approved, I would like that put into the minutes, which gets registered at the registry of EED. So we know that it's not a two family dwelling. Okay. Adam Fairb's is Tom. I think when the certificate of audits issues from ISD, who was the one family with an ADU? Yes, but I still want whatever goes to the registry of DEDs to be very clear that this is an ADU and not a two family. Okay. Thank you. And any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, our office posted a community meeting on April 20th, 2022. An additional voters meeting was held with West Broughtts for Neighborhood Council on May 24th, 2022, where the Zoning Committee voted 7-0 in support of the project. We've received no letters opposition, and at this time, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Miss Lacey, do you know if the community was aware of that ADU in the basement? Yeah, definitely. It was addressed at both meetings. I would say for the Office of Neighborhood Services meeting, there was only the director of butter who attended. And it was definitely addressed, and there was no opposition toward that. Thank you. Yeah, got it. Is any, Miss Ambassador, anybody, any more raised hands? Madam Chair, members of the board, all solemn. City Council out loud. Do you two be lack of opposition that come so that you're on that good support? And I do have a raised hand. Aaron Hanson, Ikayla. Sorry. You're the owners. Let's just hear from your architect, be repeal, and support of this. Anybody else, Miss Ambassador? No, ma'am. Mr. Bulk, a couple of questions on the ADU. What's the floor to ceiling height? It's seven and a half feet. Yes. OK. And it has full access to the backyard and the rear. Yes, it does. Through a very nice doorway and stairway, yes. OK. Excellent. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? No. I'll make a motion to prove with the design review, the BPD design review, and confirmation that this is approval of a single family with an ADU unit. Is that correct? Second. Oh, goodness. Mr. Fortune? Aye. Mr. Al. Aye. Ms. Dome. Aye. Mr. Regiro. All right. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Lagerus. Aye. I, too, am in support of this proposal. So motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm going to go back to a case I called earlier on Andrew's street. You know, I'm out of map. Bachelor of Henry Street came on. Henry, I know. Can you raise your hand if you're on for this? Henry? Why? The ONSD know who the petitioner is here. I try to reach out to them just. They haven't responded back to me. To me. OK. Thank you. I'm going to call back to the record calling DLA128-0472-1818 Henry Street. Madam Chair, I'll make a motion. I'm going to put the higher without credit. Second, I'm going to do it. OK. Mr. Fortune? Aye. Mr. Oleg? All right. Mr. Dong? Aye. Mr. Giro? Aye. Mr. Robinson? Aye. Mr. Lagerus. Aye, too, I'm in support. Just for the record, we know that it's 11.5, and the applicant has not showed some motion carries. I call it 1030. Just in case somebody was nominated, the furlough was brought. I'm going to do the 1030 cases, but the furlough was brought. If you have a case, you can give it the address please. Hearing none, I'll go to the first case. Pauling B.O.A. 132, 1013, 41-File Vernon Street. This is renovated the existing three-family dwelling, space into the basement, the new second floor bay window, inspector area addition, and deck at the third level, and erect a roof deck. The violates dot at 62, section 25, roof structure restrictions. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Matt Wood, the owner of the property. This is an appeal for a conditional use permit for a roof deck, which is part of an application to renovate the existing three-family dwelling at 41-Monger and Street in Charlestown, extended living space into the basement, approximately 280 square feet, installed a new bay window in the second floor, constructed a rear addition at the third floor level, and at a rear deck and roof deck. The roof deck requires a conditional use permit. All of the work is owning compliant. I mentioned by way of background that this board approved a nearly identical, but slightly larger application of the version of this application in December of 2020 that approval was appealed by a butter whose primary concern was the size of the proposed rear addition. The litigation was settled in my client degree to reduce the size of the height of the zoning compliant addition, and resubmit his permit application, which is why this has returned to the board. Unit 1 here would be a 1364 square foot two bedroom unit, which would include a partially 280 square feet in the basement, consisting of a bathroom, a laundry closet, and a very small office or a very large walk-in closet, depending upon how one wanted to use it, the ceiling height in the basement is 8 feet. Unit 2 would be a 1250 square foot two bedroom unit, and unit 3 would benefit from the rear addition and grow from its current approximately 480 square feet to 930 square feet also with two bedrooms. Unit 3 would have a zoning compliant walk-out rear deck on the third floor level, roughly 12 by 13 feet, and a similar size roof deck access by HACCH. The roof deck is the sole matter before the board today, as it requires additional use permit for altering the building's roof line. As such, I would pause it. This is an appropriate location for a roof deck, as there are many other similar examples in the neighborhood that adequate and appropriate facilities are provided, and the roof deck would constitute neither hazard nor nuisance to the neighborhood. Mr. Morancy, so this is a second floor, a second floor roof deck? The roof deck is a walk-out on the third floor level, I'm sorry, there's a rear deck on the third floor, we should walk out, and then there is a roof deck above the unit tree access by HACCH. It is the roof deck that requires the conditional use permit, again, not for reasons of access, but because it alteres the building's roof profile. And what's the dimension of that deck? It's not equal dimensions, but it's roughly 13 by 14 or 12 by 14. If we go down to... No, that's a question. Thank you. Yes, she did it. It's about 12 feet, but then it goes out to about 14 feet. And it's about 14 feet in width. Okay, how are the plans for Robinson? Plans are good. You know, it is pulled back from the edge, and it is accessed by HACCH. So, no questions from me on the proposal. Is... Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our and opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Keen Savelton of May's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office hosted a virus meeting on April 12th with the proposal. The applicant addressed all questions and heard concerns from the neighbors. Most concerns were related to summary quality of air and noise during the construction period, all of the other projects happening in the area. The applicant has tried working with the neighbor since the meeting. I received five letters of opposition and the letters of support, but at this time, we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I actually did have a question. I was on mute. The extension of living space to the basement. They move with a floor plan. It's pretty quick. What is the use of the basement? The basement use is a bathroom, a small laundry room. Actually, if... Where was controlling the plan? Let me just... Before we go there, just let's see if there's anybody else to speak. Mr. Ambassador, have you cleared the deck? Yes, I have. Secretary, we do have a vote of the mayor's office. Okay. Please go ahead then. Mr.... Mr. Ambassador. Okay. The day one in the lower right hand corner depicts the space in the basement, which again, as I mentioned, was previously approved. It is a bathroom, a utility closet with a washer dryer, and then what is depicted as an office or again, which, as I say, looking at it is perhaps more suitable as a walking closet. It's about six and a half feet deep. And maybe ten feet in width. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So we have enough information. We have testimony. May I have a motion, please? Mr. Hampton, you're proposing BPDA, proposed approval with the design review. It was for the roof deck for screening in the location, but if Mr. Robinson is fine with the location and it's set back, then we don't need to see it. Okay. So give me a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Alec. Aye. Mr. Dom. Aye. Mr. Regiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legress. Aye. I too, in support, so it's been approved with a design review. I mean, it's been a straight, straight approval. Great. Thank you very much. Good luck. Following next case, following DLA128-886-6997-101 Newbury Street. Let's combine 97 to 99101-Dubry to be known as 97101-Dubry Street. Violations, Article 8, Section 7, uses conditional. Cafe, condition, cafe is a conditional use in the B365 sub-district. Article 15, Section 1, the fluid air ratio is excessive. Article 20, Section 1, the ray guides insufficient. And Article 32, Section 32-4. This is G-Cod, the whole-wheeled district. Ameen, adjust for the record, please. Okay. Hi. Ameen Ryan was, let's second. Ryan, are you here for this proposal? Yes, are you. Okay. Let me just make you a panel of fluidly quick. It may unmute you, but just unmute yourself again. We switch over to panelists. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you. I believe our attorney Lou Miller is here as well. You said Miller? Yes, we were listening. We were just listening. Okay, he said, he said, kind of, well, I just made you a panelist as well. If you can accept that designation, then unmute yourself. Okay. I'll go ahead and start. Once you put your name and address of the record, please go immediately to what your request is and the violation. No, I beg you. Thank you very much. My name is Melissa Miller. I'm with the welcome of Valdena, one federal student in Boston. I'm representing the other. You and while, Mr. Miller. Excuse me? Haven't seen you in a while, Mr. Miller. Nice to see you again, madam. Thank you. Nice to be here. We're looking to do renovation improvements to our existing building into the adjacent building. 97101, New Richmond. Near the corner of Newland Fire and Witchfield, here with Ryan Woods, who's executive vice president of the applicant. And I hope, with John Truffa-Cottie, who's working so hard on our argument. We've been through a lengthy public process with this project. We'd like to thank the mayor's office, representative Livingston, councilbot, numerous spec of the committee. So, you know, we'd like to go. There aren't many people. We're waiting to meet you. Yes. Well, I was quick. Please go right. Tell us about this cafe and tell us what's increasing your FAR. But before we do that, is Mr. Semineleon. Yes, I am. Madam Chair. Good morning, members of the board of Christian Seminele, Boston. We have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well. Secretary, here. Thank you. So, let's go directly to the use and the reason why the violation for FAR excessive and rear yard insufficient to string it. Sure. The use of the grabbing gold out there is no cooking. We're just going to serve grabbing gold. Thanks to people of comments. And so, that we need a condition for you. It's not a restaurant of any kind, right? As far as the violations go. The FAR is basically because of being with bootstrapped from being a preexisting non-deformable building. Because of the amount of money we're putting into the renovation. When our bootstrapped into complying with existing code. Existing code calls for three FAR. I think that our renovations will be something in order of 5.1 F. In fact, we are in terms of what we're adding the existing building. I think it's less than in the architect. I believe it's less than about 2000 square feet. So tell us exactly what it is you're adding so we can understand what the request is. Is John, is the architect John, you want to go to that? Yes. Can you help? Can you all hear me? We can. Please just go ahead. Name an address and tell us what's the proposal. Good morning, Madam Chair, members, the board. Yes. The FAR, the existing non-conforming building is the FAR 5.7. By connecting 97 to that building, we're actually reducing the FAR 5.1. The 97 watt building alone, the FAR, what we're proposing is 3.3. If you look at just the 97 watt, about 647 feet over the zone FAR. So can you please tell us which drawing we should look at to see where the addition is? Yes. What we're proposing is to reconstruct the 97 building. So if you scroll back up, I'm sorry, we scroll back up to the plan right there. Within the red box of that plan is the 97 watt. We are connecting it to the lower plan, which is the 99-101 existing new, New England Historic and Geological Building. So what we're proposing is to reconstruct the existing, to reconstruct the 97 building at that location, extend the lower levels back to the alley to meet the facade to the existing building. So the 99 on both the east and the west side, the existing buildings, extend back to the alley side and are significantly taller than what we're proposing. Okay. Okay. Got it. And the cafe use is for general public, or just for the, for users, people who use the society's space. Well, it will be open to the public, but I don't think people want to build the exact area of the restaurant. It's not at all intended to be a cafe. So it's essentially going to be a cafe with takeout? Is that, or are you anticipating it being sit down cafe? Honest sit down cafe. Okay. Good. That was the right answer. Okay. Okay. How are the plans in Robinson? Plans are good. No, no real questions on the proposal. It's very handsome in terms of the addition, and it is extending back to the alleyway on the lower floors, but I think it's consistent with anything else on the alleyway. So really no questions on the proposal. And it looks quite nice. And Mr. Robinson, does it look like it's handicapped accessible? Yes. It is. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or opposition of this proposal? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, Mayor's Office selected deferred judgment to the board. I said, back our information on the community process as you heard from the applicant, our office held in a butter's meeting. There was just one butter who had some concerns regarding the use of the back alley. So we encourage the applicant to continue communication with that butter throughout this process and improve the continue to work with them. The applicant also met with now the neighborhood association for back bay. I believe they were not opposed. I would like to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters that the Mayor's Office is just going to ask. I think you have two raised hands. I'll start with Conrad. Can you station from the name and address for the record? This is Conrad Armstrong from 439 Marlwell Street representing the new participation back bay. They have been met with us many times. Normally, now we would oppose relief from where we are set back. But we do feel this is a very unusual situation. All the other buildings next to it are already built out all the way to the alley, the curve of the alley. Similarly, we normally would oppose increase in FAR. But as I mentioned, the new combined buildings, 97101, actually, the lowest the FAR. So we do not oppose that. And lastly, we do not oppose the addition of a simple cafe inside this place. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mark. I see your hand is raised. Are you looking to get testimony here? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Mike Lassio. I'm a business rep for the capital of 327 in Boston. And we're in full support of this budget. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. My. Are you looking to get testimony as well? You all said. I'm just in my colleague. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise hands. Thank you. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. Alec. Hi. Mr. Stone. Hi. Mr. Ruggiero. Hi. Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Legress. Hi. I too am in support. So it's been approved. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Following the next case, following the LA 1332-366-53, ramping in way. This is a convert to the existing attic into living space for two bedrooms at a bathroom. Track two dormant. Violation to the attic of 65, section 9 of 48 ratio success. Article 65, section 9 of the bill has assessment story. Article 65, section 9 of the bill has assessment of being. Name and address. Will the record? I'm Margaret Mastigar. 82 Spring Street. And Derek Rubinoff, 82 Spring Street. And I'm not an eye on the architects of the Cronjain. Tell us about the proposal. Sure. We're adding two dollars in the attic level. This is a two family. Remain to a family. And we're adding additional square foot for the second floor unit. And tell us what the total proposed square footage of proposed addition is. Okay. So the attic space will become about 850, 850 square feet. And that's just for the second unit. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. Very familiar with this location. No questions on the proposal. Any any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes, I'm Adam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. George Quinn, may I ask if it serves as at the university meeting. May we hear no concerns? We receive four letters of support from director butters and the letters support from the Columbia Sanbel City Association. And our office wants to defer, judgment to board. Thank you. And chair members of the Board, Jeremy Gephardt, City Council, Frank Bigger's office, and support. Mike, I have no additional raise hand. Did I just see something in past thing that there's a covered portrait or is that part of the existing building? Yes, I did. Okay, got it. Given that information, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. Okay, is there a second? There. Mr. Barcher. Hi. Mr. O'Leake. Hi. Mr. Stone. Hi. Mr. Ruggiero. Hi. Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Lagerus. Hi. I too am in support of motion for approval. Is scary. Bit long. Thank you. On your next case, calling BLA131, 1043, $15 street. This is a new construction three family dwelling of I-Late with Article 669, the fluidity and ratio of success of Article 669, side yards and sufficient, Article 669, usable of the spaces and sufficient, Article 66 and 41.1, conforming with existing building alignment, Article 669, the lot of areas and sufficient, Article 669, the additional lot of areas and sufficient, and Article 669, the front yard, is insufficient. They may not address further actively. I'm sorry, I need to read, sorry, Councillor, one second, Madam Chair, I need to read, who's my sauce list for better. Okay, okay, so I have to tell the applicant that we are a six-member boy, and for approval, you need all five members in support. So you can go ahead or you can request the date, all seven members will be able to sit. We would like to proceed, Madam Chair. Okay, so please put your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz from Adams of Iransi with the business address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. With me today is the owner, Neil Galdon, in the architect, Benachi, from Caso Design. This proposal is to re-wrap the traditional three-family dwelling on a 4,200 square foot vacant block. The proposal was located within a 3F-5,000 sub-district. The three units will range from approximately 1473 square feet to 2623 square feet, with the total living area of approximately 5,570 square feet. Unit one will consist of a three-bedroom, a first floor, along with little space in the basement. Basement height is eight feet. There will be no bedrooms in the basement. There will be two window wells on the rear of the property, one at the size of three by six feet, and the other one three by three feet in four inches for access, egress means. There are also in the basement, you will notice that there will be a build-out of a wheelchair accessibility in order for that to be built out at some future date, until then it will be used as storage. The basement total is- So I just want to be clear, is this anticipated to have a unit in the basement at some point then? No, no, that's just- Because this is new construction, and already everything looks pretty dense, so I just need clarity. Correct, yes, no. There won't be any intentions of having a basement unit in this property. This is going to be an accessible unit, so the shaft is actually just going to be built out to be compliant with the code, just in case if there is a compliance, a tenant that comes in in a wheelchair accessible shaft needs to be built, and it will have the accessibility for it to be done so. So the basement total square footage of the basement unit will be 1148 square feet, and the first floor unit will be 1475 square feet. Unit two will consist of a three bedroom along with the kitchen dining room living and office slash dense face with the total square footage of approximately 1474 square feet. Unit three will also consist of another three bedroom along with an office in a den, kitchen dining living, approximately 1473 square feet. The proposed FAR is a 1.32, and a 0.8 is what is allowed by code. The side yard with the right side is compliant at 10 feet, but the left side needs to be released as proposed at five feet. 1,200 feet of over three feet. So let me just ask you about the side yard on the left side. How does the operating building to their property line? So what's the distance and essence from the existing building to your proposed building? I'm going to defer, so map an entity out of the text here. I'm going to defer to him on the exact measurements from the existing property from 11. I believe you refer to 11 through 13 followers street, from correct. Matt, are you with us? Hi, Gary Lemy. Yes. Hi, Madam Chair and members of the department. I'm not actually from all the design. 17 of all of street, some of them asked. Are you referring to the left side of the building? Yes, you have a left side side yard of 5 feet required. It's 10, what's the distance between the wall of the building next door to the proposed wall here? There is currently a vacant lot on the left side of 15 followers street. On the left hand side. And then, let me just see, Frank, you are to tell us about the rear yard. Rear yard, you meet building co-requirement. Yes. OK. OK. OK. Let's see. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Well, the plans are good. No question that it's fairly consistent with the street. I think the only thing is the parking is right up against the rear property line, so maybe we can have you pay a look at that for a site plan and screening and buffering, but no other questions on the proposed building. OK. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Learning Madam Chair and members of the board, Denise DeSansoul, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant met with Director Butters in May, and as well as the area in Islands and Neighborhood Association, Director Butters would like to see families in these units. And at this time, our office would like to prefer any judgments of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, I have one support letter. B.J. is from Councilor Willow. I would like to ask the head of the team. Mr. Chairman, may I ask for the letter? Oh, thank you. B.J. Oswald, District First and Councilor Brown, we're all in office. We would like to defer judgment to the board. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, J. Sankaman. Can you ask the Councilor to come to the meeting to speak at a meeting so we can meet him? I know being remote makes it difficult. OK. Mr. Vazner, anybody else? No, I'll read you. Go ahead. Can you say to your name and address? But, let me. Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, we're presenting the no problem with the government's cooperation of seven changes to. We believe the good projects, the project that you've got to be done, is the position of our government movement, the amendment's right. And it is creepers' revenue for the security of the government's office, the security of the government. Hope everything goes is to welcome Brad. Thank you for monitoring. I have no additional raise hand. Thanks. Okay. What? Paul Sullivan, the Councilor of Life, Michael Plier, you can come to the meeting. Go ahead. OK. Mr. Vazner, anybody else? OK. I have a motion. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review, looking at site plan as well for screening and buffering. OK. Is there a second? Yes, sir. Mr. Fortune? Aye. Mr. Oleg? Aye. Mr. Oleg? Aye. Mr. Dahlmck? Aye. Mr. Regiro? Aye. Mr. Robinson? Aye. Mr. Robinson? Aye. Mr. Ligress has refused. I am in support. So motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's 1134. I'm going to call the 1130 cases for any deferrals or withdrawals. So if you have a case of the 1130, if you're withdrawing or deferring, give me the address first, please. 20, Hinckley Street. Thank you. Thank you. Will the record? Following the OA125, 8638, 20 Hinckley Street. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the Board of Attorney Jeff Drego and Drego in Tuscany, with an address of 11B, Constreet. We are seeking an possible or short deferral. We got contacted by the councilor's office. He did receive calls from some neighbors that had additional concerns. So we need to meet with his office and those folks to try to address these. We have a motion, please. Motion, I defer. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune? I defer. Mr. Arleck? I? Mr. Don? I? Mr. Rosero? I? Mr. Robinson? I? Mr. Legrest? I? I? I too have in support. The motion for deferral carries. The date, please. Councillor, we do have one open date for August 9th. That's not work. That should be fine. That is the earliest we can get you in. Okay. All right. So August 9th at 11.30. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 11.30s? Yes. Yes. Now, address, please. Five Magnolia Place. For the record calling, V.O.A.128, 04235 Magnolia Place. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Akash Lava, call, owner. Five Magnolia Place. Okay. Is there a reason for your request for deferral again? Is this your second or third? The first. Second. Second. Request for deferral. This is for administrative reasons. Okay. Got it. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll try to deferral. 30 seconds. Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Ms. Dawng. Aye. Aye. Sorry. Mr. Oleg. Aye. Sorry. Mr. Oleg. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Lageress. Aye. Aye. Aye. I too am in support. So the motion for deferral carries. The date, please. We can do August 23rd at 1130. Okay. August 23rd. Okay. So, thank you. Are there any other deferrals that will cross the 1130 hearings? Hearing none. We'll go back to the next two cases. Calling VOA 133-9059-25-Berry Street. There was a companion case. VOA 133-9067-52-Berry Street. This is for 25-Berry Street. To subdivide an existing lot of 6,831 square feet into two lots. A lot of 825-Berry Street with an existing three-family dwelling. So I'll have 3,750 square feet. And a lot of B, 52-Berry Street vacant lot. We'll have 3,081 square feet. There will be a new three-family dwelling built on a lot of B, 52-Berry Street. Violation. Article 65, section 7. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, section 7. The fluid area issue is excessive. Article 65, section 7. The ray yard is sufficient. This is for 52-Berry Street. To erect a three-family dwelling on a newly created 3,081 square foot lot, buildings will be fully sprinkled. The Violation Article 65, section 7, lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, section 7. Lot of width is insufficient. Article 65, section 7. Lot of frontages insufficient. Article 65, section 7. The fluid area issue is excessive. Article 65, section 7. The boulem hydahoeext removed number of stories is excessive. Article 65, Section 7 of the Rheagad's insufficient. Article 65, Section 41, OSTP, Pockley's insufficient. Article 65, Section 41, OSTP, Pockley's design. And Article 65, Section 42, informant existing golden alignment. Amen, Adios for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm trying to get our parts of business just up one doubt to the old entry mass. Madam Chair, we're here today, receiving relief to do something by the past about 35, that I would speak directly to the three family dwelling at two buildings, from the newly created parts. The zoning sub-district here is to three F5,000. And again, the new law created would have a thousand six hundred and a million one-year-old. Let's go out to them. So, I just want to make sure everything is clearly on the record. At the 25 Barry Street, there is an existing three family. Will there be any modifications to anything like parking or anything triggered by this proposed subdivision? Not at least five, but Barry Street, Madam Chair. Okay, and so the subdivision then puts a 25 Barry into zoning violation with lot area insufficient, FAR excessive and rear yard insufficient. That's correct. So, tell us what the rear yard is required for zoning and what is being proposed. Well, Madam Chair, rear yard requirement, the zoning sub-district is 20 feet. We are proposing five as a result of the subdivision. You're proposing five feet for the rear yard. That is correct. Okay. So, talk about the battle movement. Okay. With regard to the digital value, the battle means, because we have 5,000 gone again, the new law happens. The thousand six hundred and eight must be in feet. The violations are follows. A lot with block budget requirement is 40 feet. You've got to have 30 feet. With regard to the FAR, the required FAR is 0.5. We are proposing 0.1. With regard to building height, the requirement is 2.5 stories, 35 feet. We are proposing three feet, three stories, 39 and a half feet. In Madam Chair, that is being measured from the lead, e-grade as the topography of the land slopes. With regard to the FAR, the requirement, the FAR, the requirement is 15 feet. We are proposing five, which is photo to some of the other groups in that area. Side-yard violation, the requirement is 10 feet. We are proposing five on one side by feet, 15 feet on the other side, which includes driveway. The rear yard again is 20 feet, and we are proposing 14 feet. It's time to have... The rear yard is 20 and you're proposing 14? That was correct. Okay. And tell us about how many parking spaces are going to be provided? We are proposing three Austrian parking spaces, two inside the building and one outside of it. And we're creating a driveway on the left-hand side, the building on the Bellevue. Again, the part of the view of the land slopes down, until we park two inside and one outside of the ground. Any roof checks proposed? Not. And given that there's a slope, any occupancy in the basement? No, no occupancy in the basement. And in the three units, we'll consist of three bedrooms, two baths, and a bath, and one thousandths. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Planes are good. I think obviously the only real question in my mind is the subdivision and the rear yard set back for 25. 52 is set, I think about 18 feet off the property line. So between the buildings is closer to 22 feet or something. But no real questions on the proposed layout or scope of the addition or the new building on the other street. So. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anyone here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Denise, the San social and mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, I would like to want to record and state that the applicant did meet with Director butters back in January, 2022, as well as the association, Greater Bold and Geneva. Greater Bold and Geneva at this time would like to remain neutral. Director butters was concerned around just density and parking around this area. At this time, office would like to defer any judgments of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have a raised hand here? Anna, are you looking to get tested on the board? Madam Chair, I'm from the board. Joe McGeck, I'm from the Council of Frank Baker's Office relating all reckon support. Okay. Anna, did you look at the test mode here? Hi Jessica, can you make me a finally sorry? Well, I didn't realize it was you. Okay, please keep it for a moment. And then sorry, I have a raised hand from the church board. Are you looking to give testimony here? Hi church board, I see your hand is raised. Can you? Yes, I'll see you. Reverend John Adams speaking on behalf of the Pilgrim Church. Pilgrim Church carcinage is at 46 Felibus Street. So two doors down from the proposed block. Couple of things, one of which is a very densely occupied area. And where the driveway would be coming out is an abandoned Belvedere Street, right about where Cain Street had since, it will be a more dangerous intersection. Is it congested also the closeness to the butter? The closeness to the butter. I'm also going to mention at this point in time that that area has historically been meeting House Hill Civic Association and has primary neighborhood association for that area for decades. And I did not hear there. Okay, thank you. Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services was me tell us about meeting you? Meeting House Hill does fall into a different cashmere area than this. This is technically greater board and Geneva's. Okay, gosh me here. Yeah, okay. Anybody else Mr. Masler? I have no money, I have no way of paying. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, I have a question for you. You know, this subdivision creates a not conforming law that 25 bury. Any sense of the neighborhood and how many of these can possibly be triggered through these kind of subdivisions because this was a very comfortable conforming law to a 25 bury. And now we have created one significantly non conforming law as far as rear yard is concerned. And then one, you know, three family drawing any sense. Mr. Hampton. Is Mr. Hampton on? No. Do you offer you on? Nope, I guess we've lost him. Okay, given this information, may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. I think there can be some work done on, again, the site planning in terms of the, I think I'm not as concerned by the access point as the gentleman mentioned, I think it's sort of at the edge. It's not directly aligned with Cain Street, but I do think there can be some better work done on the site planning and the screening and buffering between the two properties. So I make a motion to approve with BPD design review specifically looking at site planning of the buildings. That's site planning, okay. Okay, may I have a second? Okay, can I go ahead? Mr. Fortune? Aye. Mr. Oleg? Aye. Ms. Dom? Aye. Mr. Rijero? Aye. Mr. Robinson? Aye. Mr. Legress? Aye. My two women supports an motion for approval with design review with specific attention to site planning and screening and buffering charities. Good luck. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm good to have you. Following your next case, calling BOA131510869 Houghton Street. This is constructed to new two family residential building off of repacking, the violation of Article 65, Section 10-1, the limitation of area, five foot buffer, Article 65, Section 21, on street packing, the new rig, Article 65, Section 65, DASH 14, traffic visibility, point three, cross the corner, Article 65, Section 65, DASH 414, point four, packing in the front yard, Article 65, Section 9, the rail yard is insufficient, Article 65, Section 9, insufficient lot size, Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAR, Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient, Article 65, Section 9, front yard, the side yard is insufficient. Damon Adred, Fuller, I can't play. The afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney John Pogini, on behalf of the applicant, James Baker, and also with us today is Chris Drew, who's the architect from 686 Architecture. 69 Houghton Street. Does the question has this particular property been before this board before? No, it hasn't, Madam Chair. It hasn't, okay, so tell us what's being proposed. Sure, it's 69 Houghton Street and Gouac Chester, the zoning in this neighborhood is 2F 5000. This lot size is 3435 square feet. The proposal is to build a new 2 1,5 story, two unit condo with four OSTP parking spaces on this vacant lot. This proposal is located at the corner of Houghton and Tilesboro Street. As far as the neighborhood, the true mix of ones, twos and threes, we have three families to the left and also more sized lots to this two-family proposal. I'll touch on the violations of Mr. Foruch and Judge Gregg. Lots of nice, it's 5000 is required in zoning with 3435 square feet. FAR 05, we're 0.74. Front yard is 15, we're at 27. Side yard on the right side is 10, we're at 5. That's why it's two, so front yard is what, please? It's 2.7. Front yard proposed, what's requiring? 15. And is that modal? There's a, you know, James Makers with me here, the lots, you want to comment on that? It varies quite a bit, quite a few of the homes are very similar in terms of just set back a few feet. There's no real modal, it varies, the housing stock, it's quite varied. Okay, go ahead. Sorry. Side yard, that I'm cheering the right. 10 feet is allowed, we're 5, but that is actually the street side. And then very odd is 20 required, we're at 18.5. We, obviously, the visibility around the corner, because we're at the front. And then the parking, with the front yard parking, the reason being the access to this property is off of tile grocery. So the parking is in the rear, just, it is, you know, because it's on a corner, it has two front yards technically. The unit, Ron, is 1,458 square feet, it's too bed-too-bath. There is a TV room in the basement with a bath storage, the basement ceiling height is 8 feet. There's no bedrooms or anything in the basement. Unit 2 is 1135 square feet. That is from a free bed and a two bath. And that is relegated to the second floors. And that's it. Okay, and let me just, because I'm just curious about that bonus room, it looks like it has front windows, side windows. Tell us about the, how far about great it is, because, you know, honestly, we don't want to see bedrooms in the basement, you know, creeping into basements. No, I agree, Madam Chair, it is, the window is 4 inches half the floor. It's a fully-aggressed window in the basement. And as I said, it's 8 foot ceiling height. The way the lot slopes, Madam Chair, it's higher in the back and slopes way dramatically down in the front. So in the front, the area of the house, it's a full window full height access, the egress window. And what's your height of the bill proposed building right? We're 34 feet. Okay, okay. How are the plans for Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. Yep, I can confirm it is, you know, there is quite a bit of drop along tiles, or a street. So one question on the access for the parking through the rear. So you're utilizing an adjacent parcels curb cut, and you have an easement to access that. Is that how I'm reading that correctly? Okay, for some reasons. Did you hear my question, Councillor? My frozen. Now we can hear you. I can, John might be frozen. I should add a question on the access to the parking. That's right. And last year, one second, Mr. Robinson, I apologize for that. No worries. Yes, so there is a limit that is already reflected the breads and needs and has been cut. And it's just, it's kind of using an additional curb cut. That's correct. Okay. I'm just going to be existing, the existing curb that we're not adding to curb cut to that. Yep. And the retaining wall on the front, on Houghton Street, I understand this slope grade, that's not sort of setting up a front yard parking access off the home or anything, is that right? With the question. The only access is off the tiles, bro. Okay. No further questions from me on the proposal. Thanks. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the Mayor's Office and the Services, a deepire meaning April 8th, couple residents expressed desire for a single family home in his fewest two parking spots, setting a lot size and traffic impact. Our office received two letters to support in one in opposition. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Okay. I do have a few less hands. Mine, I go ahead. Good morning, my name's Chair, members of the board of mine, our powers with the curb intersreening. We'd like to go on record and support this project. Tim, I send you a request. I'm here, you stay to name and address for the bracket please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tim, Mario, Father, 84 Holt and Street, speaking in opposition. My primary concern is loss of visibility across the intersection of Holt and Tauphotos Street. As I'm sure you'll wear the mercury schools at the bottom of Tauphotos Street, all the buses as well as countless cars pedestrian crossing into section going to from the school, loss of visibility at this critical intersection will surely result in accidents and injuries. I strongly encourage you to deny these variances. I also caution against approval with the VSO for additional design reviewed that resolved these were visibility across the corner. The board did that to the development being constructed currently at the bottom of Tauphotos Street across from the mercury school. The resulting fourth ring of a building quarter did not result in adequate sight lines across that corner. In the overall design, aesthetic of the champion foot first level and Kenna Lee with upper level is his court test. And also just to correct the record, this lot was previously before the board, a number of years ago under a previous owner, at that time there was a proposal for single family residents before that time denied those variances due to the size of the lot. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. No problem. Madam Chief Secretary here, I'm sorry I missed it. We do have letters of opposition. No, thank you. And just cook some stuff. Hi there, my name is Jessica Cookson. I'm at 136, 138, a Ponset ad. And we are in support of this project due to increasing the demand and housing. And we think the design fits well into the neighborhood. Thank you. Justin Buddha? Yes, I'm also a resident at 136-138 in a Ponset ad. And I'm welcome on a few things. One, I trust James Judgement, what he's been doing to this neighborhood to really change. I have a young child. I walk these roads frequently. I feel as though it's been pretty safe even with adding that new development that was at the bottom. One suggestion you could talk about is actually adding another stop sign at Toesboro Corner. That would, I think, make everyone stop at that intersection rather than having it a straight route. If someone had an issue with that, I think that would slow down that traffic on that one road. If those ability is an issue. And again, I'm also a local realtor and full support of meeting more housing in this location. And I think that's it. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? No, man, thank you. Madam Chief, Mr. Baker, just finally warning. Thank you. And I, Bob, Domingo, your hand is raised. Are you going to do you have something to say? Yes, a matter of chair and members of the board, Bob, the NECO B2D. We can work with the applicant to install a proper signage to make this a very safe area. We've done it before. And we'd be glad to do it again if this is approved by the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm here, I speak. Hello. I may have one additional comment. No, no, no. Comments from community, let's have just lost comments from the developer in response to the concerns raised by the community. Can everybody lower your hand please? Madam Chief, thank you for the time. Go ahead. This law has never been on the ZVN. It's just referring to that. OK. It's never been on. We would be happy to work with BTD to try and make sure that intersection is safe as possible. And if this gets approved, I want to make sure that there is a robust design review on it so that it's an asset to the neighborhood. OK. So Mr. Ambassador, can everybody be muted? May I have a motion from the board members? I'll make a motion to approve with design review looking at, I think, the site plan in terms of the parking, I think, abutting up to the adjacent building behind there's a lot of black top there. So hopefully they can do a little bit better job with screening, buffering, and vegetation. And then I think working with Mr. Domingo and BTD on ensuring a safe corner, I think there also could be some site plan issues in terms of maybe terracing the wall down for better visibility at the corner. So I think good site plan review with BTD and BPDA will help resolve some of the issues and design review. There are a second. Second, Lake, and Gris. OK, Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Olic. Aye. Mr. Mizdong. Aye. Mr. Rijiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligress. I, too, am in support of the motion carries. It is now a new time on the nose. The board will take a 15-minute break and we'll reconvene at 12-15. Thank you. Recording stopped. I'm still having to get something. Why do you want to go? I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to to the next. I'm going to go to the next one. There were some vacancies in terms of电 casing. And this was the first of 18 and 9 which was different. I'm going to hit the bottom. I'm going to hit the bottom. I'm going to hit the bottom. I'm going to jump in. I'm going to jump in. I'm going to jump in. I'm going to jump in. This is a reconfiguration of the second floor. The violation of Article 69 Section 9. The front yard is insufficient and Article 69 Section 9 beside the other is insufficient. Amy, add it for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair. My name is Rob. I'm a professor at the 35th Street by the Horizon Construction Island. I'm a contractor. The aforementioned address may be Chesterfield Street, the consultant's vinegar. All as well. She is the homeowner. The scope of work we're just here basically is that this is a car. It's one and a half story home where there's two bedrooms on the second floor. They're families expanding so that you can turn the computer into the second floor to create more bedrooms. So they're looking to increase the distance from you to four bedrooms. So we're looking at going a full height second floor with an added cross space for the age fax is just service that second. Okay, so it's going to be on the exact same footprint as the building currently is. That is correct. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. Very straightforward. No questions for the department. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm sure you're not sure. I'm sure you're not sure. I'm sure you're not sure. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicants completed the community process and they notified all the butters of their proposal back on May 17th. And they also attended the read, they'll watch neighborhood community meeting on May 19th where they did receive full support from the group. Or one testimony in support of this project, which has been sent to the board for review. And at this time, we would like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Secretary here. We have that one letter. I'm sure you have no way to answer the moment. Yeah, and I think we do have some emails that came in and support. So given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I think with BPD's on through just to make sure the proportions of the windows and the addition are good. So that's about it. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. O'Leak. Hi. Mr. Long. Hi. Mr. Rojiro. Hi. Mr. Robinson. Hi. Mr. Ligress. Hi. Okay. I too, in support of the motion for approval with design review carries. unanimous. We good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling BLA 1306699654 coming sideways. This is an interior renovation, recording bombing room and location of existing garage, construction of a new garage. Violations, Article 961 extension of an occupying unit. Article 669, the pollinatorate is excessive and Article 669, the ray, the official. Avin address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Leslie Delaney Hawkins with the law firm of Prince Lebel Ty having a business address of one international place. The name of the committee is Rebecca Ridley who is the owner and operator of Davis funeral home and Edison, Ribeiro, our contractor. What is before you is an existing nonconforming use. The Davis funeral. Ms. Hawkins, just, I'm going to reuse myself from this. Okay. For the record, Mr. Rojiro has refused himself. This is a six member board. So you need five members in support. You can go ahead today or you can request for seven member board. We will move forward if that is okay. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm satisfied with Alice. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. This is only existing nonconforming use. The Davis funeral home has been operating at this location for nearly 70 years with Ms. Ridley operating at the last approximately 20. We're here before you today seeking relief to construct a handicap accessible bathroom in order to better serve our patrons. And what this requires is the relocation of the existing bombing room to the space that currently houses the garage for the hers. And in order to do that, we're going to be constructing a new garage at the rear of the property. The total additional square footage is 395.2 square feet. There are no other changes to either the footprint, the structure or to the operations. Hold on, hold on, Mr. Laney Hawkins. Can you tell us which drawing we should look at so that we understand this more completely? Absolutely. And I know Edison is on as well. I would direct your attention to and let me just pull it up. I apologize. So if you're looking at. On the plans on file page one is your plot plan. And if you go to page three, you can see the existing first floor floor plan. Okay. How about the proposed? So the proposed if you go to page. Five is will show you the new first floor plan. Okay. And then six and seven provide you the elevations, the proposed new elevations. Okay. Eight shows you the changes to the roof. Is that garage door facing the street or is it in the back? It is in the rear. It's in the rear. Okay. Okay. Cool. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. Just one question on the site plan. You have a much larger lot in the back that seems is that off your property or is that your property just a different part? That is not our city of Boston. I see. That is a reason for. Nice. Okay. And you have the use of that part. Is that what? We are in part. We are in discussions. That is not part of where anything is being located today and none of our property, none of our physical structure is on that. And we are in discussions with the city regarding that parcel. Okay. The proposal is quite straightforward. No questions for me. And the garage is on the side. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? I think we are in the back of the room. The mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for 654 comments highway had an affronters meeting on May 4, 2022 and met with the greater matter-pay-nabled council on April 21, 2022. The applicant has completed the process and has full support of GMNC. And with that, the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Okay. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan Frey is here from Councilor Ricardo Royo's office. We'd like to go on record in support of this. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to prove with design on here. Second. Second. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Olic. Aye. Ms. Dahlm. Aye. Mr. Here. Mr. Here. Mr. Cue. Mr. Cue. Mr. Cue. Mr. Cue. I'm sorry. Got it. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Ligress. Aye. I too, my support, to the motion for approval with design reoccurries unanimously. Thank you very much. Good luck, Rebecca. Thank you. On the last three cases, the 10th 30 calling BLA 132 4720 120 Glendale Road. There are two companion cases BLA 130 4395 124 Glendale Road. Case BLA 132 4136 124 Glendale Road. This is the 120 Glendale Road. This is new construction with two family dwelling with four parking spots and curb cut and driveway. The violation of Article 67, Section 9, open spaces and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the side yard and the sufficient, Article 67, Section 12, the mental regulations, Article 67, Section 9, body areas and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the law of witness and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the play day ratio is excessive, Article 67, Section 9, the bill and the access of the storage. This is for a 124 Glendale Road. This is sub-divisodied to two laws being known in 120 Glendale Road. The violation of Article 67, Section 9, the side yard and the sufficient, the fall of 124 Glendale Road. This extension of living space into the attic dormant basement, the violation of Article 67, Section 9, open spaces and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the lot of areas and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the law of witness and sufficient, Article 67, Section 9, the play day ratio is excessive, Article 67, Section 9, the bill and the hand's excessive and storage, Article 67, Section 9, the usable open spaces and sufficient, Article 67, the side yard is insufficient. It's you. Go ahead. Yes, please. This is Pat Fisher. Can you hear me, all right? Oh, yeah. And the amp. No, I'm the amp. I need you from the applicant first, please. My name is Olsen. Losing. Eight Parties, Martin. Okay. So tell us what you're proposing to do. Okay, so there's three things I'm proposing to do here. The first is I was adding a donor to the existing building and which units in that building. That's a two family. It's a two family. So you want to extend living space not only to the attic but into the basement. Yes, me. Okay. So tell us about the proposal to extend into the attic. What is what is the intent of the use of the attic? I was adding a donor. I know, but is there bedrooms up there? What's up there? Oh, yeah. The proposed proposal. What is it? One bedroom up the two bedrooms up there and a bedroom with a small office. So how many bedrooms in that unit? The unit would have three. Okay. Okay. And then tell us about the basement. What's the proposed use of the basement? The proposed use of the basement have two bedrooms and a bathroom down there and a laundry. Two bedrooms and a bathroom in the basement. Tell us the floor to ceiling height and the basement. That's going to be eight feet. I think. Okay. And what's the floor to cell height? The window height is going to be a U.S. What do you think? I get the film architect for that. Yes, please. Whoever your architect is put your name and address on the record. Yes, my name is Pat Fisher. I'm with Fisher Associates Architects, 35 Fisher Road in Weymouth. 124 Glendowers Street is an existing 8500 square foot lot in a neighborhood that is on two F-5,000. And it is a neighborhood of mostly multifamily homes. My client is looking to subdivide this into two lots, one of 4,000 square feet, one of 4,548 square feet. I'm sorry, Joe. So, so when since we are at 124, what's the square foot proposed for that lot? That's 4,548 square feet and that has the existing two family house on it. Okay. And we, and 120 Glendowers proposed as? The two family house, 4,000 square foot lot. Okay. So tell us, speak through through the basement, propose basement extension at 124. Yes, 124. We will have two units. The first floor and the basement will be one unit. The second floor and the currently occupied attic will be the second unit. Okay. So tell us about the, what the use of the basement space? The basement will, and that is roaring. That's drawing a seven if you want to scroll to that. So the basement will have two bedrooms, a small sitting area, and a bathroom and possibly a laundry. Yes, that's it on the left hand side. The lot slopes dramatically from the back down to the street. So we could possibly have all windows that are not egress well windows. I am showing one window. So what are you showing in that story? On this drawing, I'm showing the two bedrooms and three of the windows will be normal egress windows without an egress well. The window and the far back on the left side will probably need an egress well. Okay. So you said it slopes dramatically in the rear. You'd from the rear down to the front. Okay. And if you look at drawing a five, you can see that slope. And tell us about that utility room. Is that just for this unit in the basement? Yes, just for this unit. As the two families, they'll sprinkler required. Okay. So the challenge I'm having is that this is a two F five thousand. And you're taking a lot and creating two substandard lots, which will remove any rights with future owners to do anything on their property essentially without coming to this board. And so, you so there are both both properties now have a lot of area and sufficiency lock with insufficiency, et cetera, et cetera. So we just keep that in mind as you proceed with the presentation on 120 Glend hour road. So the new building at 120 Glend hour road, that's drawings eight through five on the other set of plans. It's the same situation. The basement in the first floor will be the one unit. Here's the basement plan. And I'm going to suggest we swap the rear bedroom in the family room. So we don't need an egress well for that rear bedroom. And that will make those both of those bedrooms. Again, the lot slopes both of those bedrooms will have normal egress windows. So that you know this board is not very keen on bedrooms basement, especially very especially when there's new construction. So please then go ahead and talk about everything else. So this building will also have two units. They will be three bedroom units. The basement in the first floor is one unit. The second and well, third floor attic will be the second unit. In both of these outings are half stories. So they have square footages half of the floor below. But this will again, like I said, there'll be living room dining room kitchen, three bedrooms, two bathrooms. The lots do contain enough parking for spaces for each building. There is some exterior open space. Proctor code egress. Sorry, please tell us how the parking is going to work. Do you have the site plan there by any chance? Please tell us which drawing to go to. It's a different drawing. It's by Boston Survey. Do you have that? Is that the first in the back? There it is. Oh, yeah. Okay, so that's the existing site. Obviously right now it's one lot. That shows the subdivision. It doesn't show the other building. Okay, we still not showing the building. That's not the one that's different. Yeah. That's the first one. Is only shows a driveway. Yeah. Okay, so there's no proposed shared driveway. Yeah, there is. It is a shared driveway, is it? No, not shared driveway. Okay, I have the current plan here. Can you see it on the screen? No, there's no screen sharing on this. Okay, I'm holding it up to the camera. This is the plan. The plan is the last page. The last page is the site plan with both. So it's one of the other parts. All right, thank you. The last page in this package. Oh, there we go. Okay, oh, well, there is actually one that's been done by George Collins. But this is the essence. Yeah, why he drew. There is a so there's going to be two separate driveways, two separate parking areas at the rear. And also tells this that you have an eight foot side yard on the proposed dwelling. How far is that from the dwelling on the other side? Oh, boy. Well, there's a driveway in between that. Okay. Oh, okay. 16 feet tall. Yeah, yeah. Got it. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? The plans are, we just went through. I think they're a little bit confusing. I do question if we can really get full egress windows in the basement as the proponents is sort of. It is a sloping lot, but it's just hard to tell because I don't have that information. In terms of the proposed building and the sub-divide, I don't really have too many questions about that. But I do have a question about how to manage the lower level of units. That's in both proposals. Yes. Yeah. Got it. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yeah, just to follow up on what Mr Robinson is saying, I'm looking at the Google Maps picture. And there's no way that there's a walk out in the front. I think that's the problem. The, the, the grade is. It's above grade, but not all that significantly so that I don't think. And if it slows dramatically uphill toward the rear, that would be even more of a problem. So I, I just, I don't think the bedroom is going to work. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Members of the board. My name is Lucia Nochi and I'm the Ross Lilies. But the mayor's office. We held a meeting for the one for Glendale. The vision portion on April 18th and the 120. Glendale Road Division person on May 25th. For the one 24th, Glendale Road meeting, there were concerns about property lines, but that seems have been addressed by the property owners. So the one funny. Glendale Road person. There were concerns about the property line again. And there were talks of maybe going to an assessing office. There are also concerns over patterns faces. But. We're looking at the plans. You actually ended up creating four spaces because of the driveway. The mayor's office. We need to sign judgment to the board. Thank you. So. Some. I do have a raise hand. Good afternoon. My name is Mark Lucien Paul Schoehner. License real estate. Hold on, Miss Lucien. If you're the applicant, we don't kindly don't want to hear from you. Okay? What you're from in a butter. Sorry about that. Okay. Thank you for the borrow. You have to test the money for this product. I am indeed. Good afternoon. There's a board. None of the chair. I am in a butter 130 Cornell Street in Roslandell. And I am, let's say an ardent opposition to this project. It turned, the so called 120 Glendale Road turns 124 Glendale into, as you said, Madam Chair, a non-conforming site lot. And there simply isn't enough room to shoot one another two family whose foundation would go rather deeply into the ground. It is a great burden to the Aboding Neighborhood 118 as well as to the rest of the neighborhood. Glendale is a one-way street. There's a school just past the intersection with Kitchwich. It is not the scale for this neighborhood to squeeze these properties together on about one lot, quite frankly. So in the topography, yes, we would be handed eight cars on a platter above everything else. So it would be in terms of variances, two and a half feet in some areas between the two buildings. I think you run into some fire code issues there. And it's not a city. This is a more residential scale for Boston. Yes, we do need more housing in Boston area, but we cannot, we cannot sanction greed and opportunism, which is what this project represents. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional raise. I'm sorry, a hand was just raised. Connie, are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? I said the request to unmute you. Yes. Okay. Can you sleep your phone name and address for the marketplace? I'm Constance Borap at 118 Glendale on the immediate butter. And I also have grave concerns about the division of the lot. The house at 124 will be two feet away from the proposed property line. I also have concerns about a two family on 120 because it requires as many variances as the non the request for the non conforming lot at 124. I know, Mr. Lucy and said in one of the butter's meetings that he wanted to build something have the design of something for 120 that wouldn't require any variances. But as you can see, it's many. The other concern I know where I don't know where the curb cut is supposed to go on 120 and how many parking spaces that would be lost because of the curb cut. And I will tell you parking on Glendale almost every space right now is occupied by residents. So let me just ask you a quick question on Glendale is a one way is there parking on both sides of the street. Yes, there is. So that really narrows the passageway them for travel. Yes. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? No, there's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. There's no way What? The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. the basic. The basic. the basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. The basic. Try all of this is the basic, Trigger all of this. Is the want the one. The 1,300 34 and 95 124 II 3 90. Enjoy all. 1,300 413 EEC and 29.5 124 Glendau street 124 Glendau street Page 18 lineup 139 which is month old. rec arrow 127 TH Sorbit File $ Start $ Start挕 What $ Is their emotion to approve this or not is their emotion to approve this or not is their emotion to approve this In my case, to deny without prejudice. To deny all of them without prejudice? Okay, is there a second? I'll second that, Eric. Okay, that makes it easier. Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Ehrlich. Aye. Ms. Dahln. Aye. Mr. Ruggiero. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligress. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. I call the first case to rediscussion, calling VLA 125 5773 753 East Broadway. This would propose renovation to change our from a restaurant with takeout, an office space with restaurant takeout to dwelling units. Violation of Article 68, Section 33, R3 parking. It's insufficient. Article 68, Section 8. Usable open spaces in sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the additional lot areas in sufficient. Avin Adguest, full the record, please. Good afternoon. The Secretary Madam Chair, members board attorney, Cho Hanley, 28 State Street in Boston with me is the owner of the property, Joy Lee. Also with me is Devon Riley, a Marine who is the project architect. May I give you an overview and explain the project, Madam Chair? Yes, and please tell us why you would defer to. Yes, thank you very much. Also we had deferred back in June before the board. We are asked to seek a deferral by district city councilor Flynn to address community concerns with regard to onsite parking. And we're pleased to come back with what we think are some viable solutions for that. To tell us what the project looks like today. Yes, ma'am. So current project, as you'll see, the photo of the existing condition on the left. This is an existing three-story mixed-use building at the corner of L in East Broadway in South Boston. It is an existing nonconforming structure, meaning that it occupies most of the lot. It is located in an MFR LS. And what the project seeks to do is merely to change the occupancy on the top two levels that you'll see there to an allowed residential use. And what is being proposed is two residential units. There are floor-throughs, one on each floor, to replace what is vacant commercial space that due to the pandemic, there's a lot of need for. But more importantly, we're obviously in a residential area. The units themselves. Mark, tell us about the restaurant but takeout. Yes, so nothing proposed there. That's an existing restaurant, the bagel company that is there. No changes to that. So the change of use is for the top two levels and for obviously interior renovations. There is no work to the existing structure with respect to any of the zoning violations. We're not expanding the structure. We have- So sorry, can I just about your proposal to ameliorate the parking situation then? Yes, so the existing lot, no curb cuts, no available parking on site today. And so what is being proposed to address that is the top level unit. This is an owner occupancy proposal that this Lee, who runs is a neighborhood business operator. She runs MoCo restaurant also on East Broadway and she has a parking space there that she uses for herself. So she'll be moving into the top unit. And then we were able to, since the deferral, we were able to locate two additional spaces that we would be able to lease at 655 East Second Street, which is less than 700 feet from this site. And they are de-owned third party commercial spaces that we are able to lease and propose- That's not me. Second, don't be- De-owned third party, what does that mean? In other words, they're not replacing someone else's parking. They are parking spaces within a structure that are owned separately by a landlord that are rented for monthly parking. And- Okay. So I think the question becomes, because I do think that this is a temporary response, because I think you've heard us say before that the relief goes with the building, and not with the owner. Yes. So to memorialize these spaces, the other addresses need to come to this board with a request for ancillary parking, with for ancillary parking. And so because this is just, in essence, a statement by- You know, you as the representative of the applicant about how this is going to be addressed, but it's just- it's just short term, because it's not memorialized really in any place. Any response to that? Yeah, Madam Chair, thank you for that. I understand that. You know, the fact is this is an existing building in a residential zone with vacant commercial space that would not otherwise conform to zoning. This board has talked about creating housing of a scale that would be amenable for families. These are proposed to be three bedroom units each are 12 months. You know, thank you, nice try, nice try. But candidly, I think, you know, you also have to consider that perhaps the most popular best route happens to be right in front of this property. No, I honestly, you know, Mr. Henley, I'm just glad you're not proposing tea passes, subsidized tea passes, etc, etc. But the thing is, this, you know, until the owner at 6.55 each, the second street finds he can get a higher dollar for it, or there's a demand in his building for it, those of an advantage in about a second and a half. And you know, we know that this for now is owner occupied and the owner has a dedicated space I have business, but should she sell her business, you know, then what she's stuck, you know, or should she sell the unit, you know, that new owner is stuck because it's not deeded in any way. You know, so, you know, I would suggest that, you know, if there is going to become a response to this off street parking thing in anywhere in the city, that it be actual, an actual response and not a, you know, a shoot from the hip response, you know, because frankly, I'm okay with that this doesn't have parking because I understand that this is an MFR L.S. But then I don't live in Easty and for at least, I mean, first, in Southeast. So any South Boston resident, you know, needs to think about these kind of deals twice, you know. So I'll leave it there, Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are fine, no real question on the proposal. I guess I'm hopeful that if this is approved, we can get some real design review on the exterior. It's that corner is starting to develop and I think we want to take a shot at making sure, architecturally, this building is sort of preferential to what's happening in the neighborhood. But no, no real questions on the proposed school. Excellent. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak? Either in support or in opposition of this proposal. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Anna White. I'm with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This project was handled by my predecessor, our office held a butters meetings on 228, 2001, and on 414, 2001. I have 34 statements in support of this project from residents of South Boston at this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Anna Calderon from Council President's Flings Office. Council President would like to go on recording support based on the proposal and good faith efforts and compromises to address parking concerns and quality of live issues from the neighbors since the last hearing date. The proposal has come from four units with wrong parking spaces down to two units, one of which will be on the occupied with three parking spaces in the nearby area, utilized by the residents that will be living here. Previously, the board rejected this proposal last year. The proponents of sequently deferred in May accounts of President's Flings request due to outstanding and legitimate concerns regarding the existing parking crisis in South Boston and quality of live issues. During this time, the owner has indicated she will occupy one of the units and utilize her existing parking spaces in the area. She says also secure two parking spaces for the other unit on its second. In addition, she has also implemented a pest control plan at the request of the abaters. Council President Flings understands that there is both support and opposition regarding this proposal. If the board stands from these good faith compromises regarding parking and pest control and also concerns that this is a unique location and another proposal may not be as a alternative to the parking crisis. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, also on the City Council as Michael Platti. Article 68 went through an extensive community process and the council approach of thinking systems reference to that. That said, council Platti liked the acknowledge of the proponents changes to address concerns about the plans. You know that there are times when these variances saw it may be considered a substantial hardship. Therefore, he would defer it to the Board's knowledge of understanding and terms and zoning laws as a pertains to unnecessary and unintentional high chits. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have a lot of support and we do have a few letters of opposition. Okay. Anybody else, Mr. Bousser? We have a few raised hands. I'll start with Richard. Can you state your full name and address for the work, please? Yes, Madam Chair. My name is Richard Ways. I am Director Butter. I'm a very close to what the Chair said about the slide of hands. It's spot on. It's a parent attempt. They try to rescue some of the people who are in the office. They try to rescue some of the people who are in the office. It's a parent attempt and trying to rescue something that wasn't enough of an effort put into it. And you have to question whether or not it was really meant to be an effort and solving the problem or just kicking the can down the road. This doesn't do anything. It's not only that. It hasn't changed the occupancy at all. It goes from four units of six bedrooms to two units of six bedrooms. That is still the potential of six people in driving cars and one of the business areas in South Boston, one of the most hazardous intersections in South Boston. There's already a plan. Thank you. I'd love to be off from everybody. However, we try to give each project the time that it takes. I would like to hear from Director Butter's. Director Butter's. I would like for you to give me new information. If you do not have a new information, please just put your name and address on the right. And tell us if you're in support for an opposition. Okay, I would really appreciate your cooperation. We've been at this since 930. But we do want to hear from you. So be brief, please. Thank you. Lou Ann, go ahead. Can you say she named it address of the article? Lou Ann, I'm Connor, President of City Point New, We're Good Association of which this building lies. Madam Chair, this is all new information. Please, Lou Ann of Mr. Connor, support our opposition. Opposition, but it's very important that you understand that the process, the community process has not been fulfilled here. This has all new information to us. Thank you. Thank you. I have that on the record. Thank you. Thank you. Michael Norton. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Michael Norton, I own 751, 759, 751 East Broadway. And I'm full support. Thank you. Greg S. Hi, my name is Greg Sarrago. I own three, four new little place. I am in a butter. I've been participating in these meetings for a while now. I understand that the original project planned for six bedroom. This goes back to the road. I hope you're going to respect what I've requested after everybody. Yes, I have. Do tell us whether you're in support and our opposition. And if it's and give us new information. Yeah, sure. So I am in support. And I think the motion to do so helps a baby supply constraints in the neighborhood. Thank you. Okay. Okay. I'm calling 781 to 71 to 7. Oh. You have two callers on it. This request I knew you. About a front cook. I can go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, I'm in full support of the project. I think it just I believe it was Greg said it. I think it was a good idea. It adds new places that are of actual value to the community and the size of the apartments for the people that were living there. And I don't think the parking should be in the shape. Thank you. Can you say to address please. 47 gate street. Thank you. One more morning Anthony. I'm going to get the customer here. Hello. Can you hear me? Hi. Can you hear me? Sorry. My name is Anthony Jeff. I'm a reside on East Broadway. Approximately about one block. I'm a time full support of this. What's your address please Anthony? Eight four and I need Broadway. Okay. So this is the water from the property. Okay. And from my experience, most people in the living city point now, but 80% do not have cars. And so they take public transportation. There's two pounds of public transportation right out front on the corner of Ellen east Broadway. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. No additional raise. Okay. So given that information. I'm here. I'm here. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve of the BBA designer. A second. And can we can I add robust design review for the exterior upgrades? Because I think that the vinyl siding needs to be removed and the window configuration. Should be adjusted for the units themselves. I'm happy to accept robust design. Thank you. Okay. So Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. Oleg. Robust. Miss. Don. Hi. Mr. Regiro got you with a robust. Okay. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Ligress. Yes. I too am in support. So motion carries. But this is a note to you. Miss. So it's just to make sure that there's a tool process. And not, you know, not something that's just temporary, okay? Thank you, madam. Motion carries. Okay. Good luck. Calling the next two cases. Calling the LA. 1, 3, 0, 3, 4, 7, 1, 49 to 49, 8, Lindwood Street. And a companion case, the LA, 1, 3, 3, 6, 2, 7, 6, 51 Lindwood Street. This is for 51 Lindwood Street. Up. This is an existing dwelling at 51 Lindwood. This is one of two dwellings on the same lot, the Violet Statical 50, Section Party 4.13, two of the dwellings on the same lot. This is for 49, 49, 8, Lindwood. This is new construction of a two-story, a new building. Detach, slab on grain, garage, studio residents above. This is one of two dwellings on the same lot. The Violet Statical 50, Section Party 3 ought to be packed with insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, lot of areas insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, lot of width is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, lot of frontages insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, the Ray Adds insufficient. And Article 50, Section Party 4.1, 3, 2, 1, dwelling on the same lot. They may not address further reckon please. Even keys 51 Lindwood Street owner, I'm going to defer to my architect, Mike Tavis, he also will state why we defer to some June appointment. Back to noon, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Mike Tavis, architect at a 26-amhill park in Dorchester. This is a, Mr. Keys is looking to add a garage off-tree parking for his personal use and thought that he might want to add to some residents above. So it's basically a 523 square foot, gross square foot, studio efficiency essentially on top of the garage itself. Mr. Chair, there's a backup for a minute. What's the zoning district here? Zoning here is 3F 4000. He is a existing single family. And he has a one family, and let me just get sure I have all this and what's the size of the lot? A 7,285 square feet. Okay, so tell us about this, the detached garage, the size of it and it's, how many cars does it intend to house and tell us about the studio residents above? Sure, so it's about a 523 square foot footprint, they're 17 feet by 30 feet. And it's got a single car garage inside for some additional storage for Mr. Keys's snowblowers, things like that. And it's got a single stair that takes up to the efficiency studio on the second floor, which is kind of a small, again, kitchen net. It's like a two-burner stove kind of thing and small sink and under counter refrigerators. So it's just used for friends or family come over. They want to stay and he doesn't have any room in this house, they can stay there. That's really what the point of it is, a small space, single bathroom shower. And yeah. So Mr. Chavez, you know that the relief goes with the property. Correct. So this is a small, if we want to consider the studio residents, it's a very small space. And you know, Mr. the up Mr. Keys intention maybe for spill over when this company, but should he sell that property? We then have a small unit that is then open to the open market. Can you please just talk us through what protections are in place or if there's a way to get this unit to be possibly, you know, more occupancy friendly? Sure, yeah. So Mr. Keys is forever housed, you stay there. Again, if you had to sell it, however, ideally this would have gone through what Austin's currently working on, which is the additional or accessory dwelling unit, 2.0, which is detached conversion of garages into, you know, like accessory uses to the main house and we would have preferred to have gone through that process but just not set up rest to do that yet. So we're open to having it be an accessory structure to the main house and not having it be a single family home and enough itself. Its utilities will be connected to the main house. Again, it's providing additional options for parking for the different self and it's going to be shared. You know, that's his garage on the first floor. It's not meant for the unit above. So it's really meant, it's designed entirely to be an accessory structure to the main house. It's just that there's not a formal process for it to be called that currently in the city of Austin. So we are open to whatever we can do to make that. Like you said, occupancy friendly for the existing single family home. No, Mr. I just even want to ask in terms of this. So why wasn't it, why wasn't it, why couldn't it be an ADU? Because it's a new construction and currently that only allows for existing garages. I mean, I actually asked D&D about that and if it could go through that process and they said because they're focusing on existing buildings that they wouldn't consider that currently. So hopefully down the road this may be would, you know, had it been a couple more years maybe, but right now it's not that. Got it. I'm sure as any other assurances, I'm a single up store bachelor playing in the Chinese six years, but if I was to sell this property, it's as one. It's one lot, some of us, but for a lot. And I'm not going anywhere for a while. And I live and work in neighborhood. I'm at the only building right now, which I made it so I walked through. Oh, yeah, you know, that's why I thought your name was familiar. I got it. Okay. You know, but, but, but, you know, as a neighbor resident and somebody who cares about the community, we totally understand that you're not anticipating going anywhere, but like me have other plans for you to select it may have for me. And as I am in my forever home, you know, and we need to always as a board, you know, keep that in mind as we look at these proposals. I just, okay. Okay, got it. So how are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. No questions. I think everything has been addressed in terms of my concerns. Any questions from the board? You know what I'm having a hard time remembering if Mr Robinson or Mr. Oley could help me, is what is the size of a, you know, I'm not a microunit, but the smallest studio, one family studio, I would say. Hang on a second, and I'll tell you. Yeah, I can, I also look it up to, for some reason, five, 15 or five, 25s in my brain, but that could be wrong. So I don't have four, 54, a studio. Hang on. Got a micro? No, that's a Metro studio, a unit 625, for a single bed and 850 for two. Yeah, that's, that Madam Chitage, Jeff, that's the compact unit. Yeah. So it falls to the Shindles guidelines. Yeah. And what did the BPD recommend on this? I knew you were gonna ask that. Hold on just a second, please. So we recommended approval with Proviso, just for design review. And at the time, this is when Highland Park became a landmark district. So we may want to kick it to landmarks so that they can take a look at it. But. Okay, it's Highland Park. Okay, got it. Okay, is it the landmarks or? Yeah, it was just, it was just adopted as a landmarks district. Okay, okay. Let's see, any other class, anything else on the board, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Kishis Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. So background information on the community process, the owners met with the butters. So for 49 and 51 Linwood was supported by the Highland Park Neighborhood Coalition and has presented to them multiple times. We just asked the applicant to remain in communication with the Coalition. So we'll just ask the applicant to be able to answer out the process and we can assist if needed. At this time, we're deferring to the board. Okay, Madam Chair, do you have a raise hand here? Are there any other elected officials given testimony, Stephen Fox? I sent a request to unmute you. Can you state your name and address for the record please? I have no different ways to answer. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion please? I'll make a proof of BPD design review. I think it's because it's this network, it's a strike district. We don't need design reviews. So it's approval. Is there a second? I'll second that, Eric. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Alec. Yes. Ms. Dong. Aye. Mr. Rijiro. Aye. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Legrace. Aye. I too am in support. Now I wish you good luck. But do keep that in mind as we proceed. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, everybody. Following a next case, calling BLA 1287036, 1759 to 1763 Washington Street. This is a change of multi-failing residential 76 unit reduced to 70 on 7522. And commercial restaurant use the ground floor. Restore the historic facade and existing building constructed new addition above the existing structure of the 13th laws. And fill the adjoining parcel. Two bottles to be combined. The violations are 50, section 28. Regulations restaurant use is conditional. Article 50, section 29. The additional lot of areas. It's efficient. Article 50, section 29. The fluid area ratio is excessive. Article 50, section 29. The bill and height is excessive in storage. Article 50, section 29. The bill and head excessive in tea. Article 50, section 29. Use the lawful spaces and sufficient. Article 50, section 29. Front yard is insufficient. Article 50, section 29. Side yard is insufficient. And Article 50, section 29. Rear yard is insufficient. Even the address of the record. I'm chairman of recusementness of this matter. So I will tell the applicant that this is a six member board. And you will need five members in support of your proposal. So you can either go ahead or request the date when all members are available. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCasla, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. And with respect to your comment regarding the board composition, my clients are both on. And I would ask them to give me in the board instruction on whether they wish to proceed with a six member board. In light of Mr. Ligris' recusal, Tom or Jazz, can you chime in? Yes, we'd like to proceed, please. All right, so there's the answer to that, Madam Chair. We were last before this board on April 26th regarding this proposal. And just to give you a brief history and to remind the board members where this project has been in the process. So what we would like to do, Mr. LeCasla, schedule for 1130. It's now 115. So we want you to help us save some time. The last time that you would have we had significant comments about the design and the layout of the units. So tell us what has been accomplished between the last time you were here and today. Yes, Madam Chair. On 426, the board expressed concerns regarding the number of compact units and the arrangement and distribution of the IDP units. So we went back to the BPDA to consult with the IDP staff and to change the unit count and to change the mix of the units and to change the IDP distribution of the units. And substantially redesigned the floor plates of the entire building from its prior hotel use to a proposed residential use. And on those specific items, I'd like Darterian Brown, our architect, who was responsible for engineering all of those changes to further address your concerns from the prior hearing. Darterian. Thank you, Mr. Brown. I just want to make sure that Mr. Robinson has the most updated plans. Yes, he does. Thank you, Madam Chair. Okay, then go ahead, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, our 10th and architect from the park. If you may, a forward please to the next couple slides. I can speak exactly to the questions raised. I think if you keep going, please. This is great right here. So comments raised were then around the number of compact units and design of the interior of the building. So the plan demonstrates on the left. What was once approved by this board as a hotel project, plan middle, plan right, show a complete reworking of the core for the residential use that maintaining the exterior facade design that was both approved by this board and by landmarks, which was in going back to landmarks, and that was the first time in terms of keeping the aesthetic of the building on the exterior. If you go to the next page, please. Here you could see up in the upper right what we were at back at the last hearing with 76 units. We had 15 studios 37, 11, 11s and 13, 2s with the reduction in unit count to 70. So we had a lot of the number of studios down to eight, reduce the number of room, one bedrooms, kept the one pluses and significantly increase the two bedrooms. This took us from 33 compact units down to 19. By an addition. So 33 compacts to 19. Correct. So we lost 14 compact units. And I'm sorry, tell us about the compacts. So they're in the compacts. There are eight studios and 11 one bedrooms. Correct. Okay. And then within that, we heard Madam Chair, the question around distribution of the IDP. So we reworked that and went back to the PDM and housing review for this new proposemix, which takes four studios down to two studios. For IDP. We had three one bedrooms. Now we have four one bedrooms. We had two one bedroom pluses that's remained and then we've increased our two bedrooms up to two from one. So against reduce the studios and increased for the larger units. So the bottom diagram, if you don't mind slightly scrolling down shows that even distribution throughout the building. In addition to the hearing impaired. So much more evenly distributed, both by type and location throughout the building. Again, just to reiterate within an entirely new residential core for the building. Okay. Okay. Got it. Thank you. Thank you. Any how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. They definitely reflect as the proponent has just outlined. And I think the reduction in units and the distribution has gone a long way to making the plan a little bit more understandable and consistent with what I think we discussed at the last hearing. And to confirm, Mr. Brown, the units have gone from 76 units down to 70 units. That is correct. Okay. Any other questions from me? Sorry, Mr. Robinson. No, I'll go. Just like, you know, any other questions on the board? Yeah, I just like to say as one of the people who was raising these issues about the number and size of units, I really appreciate the effort that's been done to turn this into a very different project. It's always been beautiful on the outside, the post exterior. So I think this is going to be a really welcome addition to the city's case. Mr. Hampton, did you have something to say? Yes, Madam Chair, members of Board, Jeff, I had to BPD, I just like to go on record saying that the development team was very receptive to the changes that were brought to them by BPD, a staff. And I would like to just go on the record again that we're in full support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? I guess. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Kim Kursioli from Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. Mayors Office would like to defer to the board's judgment at this time. The project has received over 130 letters of support from a butters within 300 feet of the property. 22 letters of support from directly abiding businesses and letters of support from the Claremont Blackstone Franklin and Worcestershire Area Neighborhood Associations. This project has had an extensive public process with 39 public meetings and has made sure the wants needs of the community are met. This project will have a positive impact in the community and will bring much needed life to the area. Again, we defer to the board on this matter. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is John Santiago. I'm a resident on Claremont Street in the neighborhood. I also represent the area for the past four years. I'm standing in support of this project once again. As many of you know, this project has the opportunity to revitalize this corner that has been dormant for decades. And particularly when you consider the potential stretching from Washington in the South end, all the way down to New Beam Square, this can really be a thoroughfare that is going to provide a hoodlum to be economic opportunity for the community. And notwithstanding the fact that two restaurants have closed there in that corner there over the past two years, one of which was minority owner. I'm secondly the need for more housing. I can't say enough. I have someone who's been fighting for more housing at the city and state level. This is what we need. When this project became a housing focus project versus the hotel, I've been on board and really been advocating to get the community more engaged. With that said, the community has been quite engaged. It's been robust community process, particularly since the last ZBA hearing. Folks have been engaged. The proponents have done an excellent job going around meeting with every stakeholder. I appreciate the work and I hope that the ZBA can provide a favorable recommendation. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, Secretary here. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have letters of support and opposition. Madam Chair, Joe McGatchro and City Council of Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and full support of the project. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan, City Council of Lives, Michael Flarey, Council of the Golden Record and Support. Any more letters? Thank you. Madam Chair, thank you. Madam Chair, the Fox on it. Oh, good. Madam Chair, members of the Board, I'm Mary and Marie Me from Council of the Nandest Anderson's office. The vast majority of the fee back Council of Nandest Anderson has received from constituents is in support of the project. While none of the minority of the positions received has come from a butters, additionally, this work well endeavor will contain residential units and kind of which will be affordable and the current entities and I sort of readily use the beautification multi-use. In short, Councilor Anderson readily supports the Alexander development and looks forward to the time. And we're future when the project reaches its fruition. Thank you. Thank you. Is that the Fox? Yes, Steve Fox, I chair the South End Forum, which is the umbrella organization for the Combine Neighborhood Associations of the South End. I was also a member of the IAG for this project for beginning four years ago. I want to offer my unconditional support for this project without belaboring what has already been said. This will bring residential ownership opportunities to the South End, which are really, really missing, which we desperately desperately need. And this project is an example of the best of how to engage the community in a process that ultimately results in a great project. That's all. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Carol Strife. I live at 5, 7, 8, Mass Ave. My house, my front yard is actually shaded by the tower. I want to thank the ZBA for directing the developers to gain more community input. That community input has resulted from over 230 signatures from the Roxbury side of Mass Ave, indicating their opposition to the project for a number of issues, which we've enumerated and written submissions. Having the ZBA having directed that the community process be supplemented, we are now arguing that the ZBA should honor those residents who have indicated opposition and return this project to the BPDA for proper review. We're not opposed to developing the corner. We support it. We simply do not support this particular project at this particular height and with a lack of parking and other issues. Thank you very much. Thank you. I would like to go on record supporting the Alexander project. I've seen it in other form and now in its current form. The United Nations and Roxbury have heard from some of their neighbors and they like to see something there at the corner that will enhance economic development. They've done a good job in reaching out to stakeholders and they try to consider people's needs and desires. And so we would like to hollerly support their efforts to create something there that hasn't been there for 40 years. Thank you. I'm out of trouble. I'll make you go on. Yes, please. Okay. Darius and Trata. Hi. I'm coming for us. I'm going to go on track with the resident. This process, the entire process, the first day of meeting on the Alexander Hotel, it was determined that it was going to be the south end. The BPDA supported that and even though it was Article 50 and it was a Roxbury project, it did not invite the Roxbury Neighbor Council or Roxbury residents to be part of the process. Well, we know that this location needs to be developed. It needs to be developed with the input of residents on both sides of the aisle. I mean, the last attempt on the BPDA to push this through was to say this is a minor modification that they were looking at. And it really wasn't. So that was just an attempt to get this push through as a minor modification. And we know the BPDA is not having a long arms relationship with this person. It's like they are advising them to do things that are incorrect and totally wrong. There is no outstanding need except financial for 13 plus foot building. And this building would be towering over everything else in the area. If you look at the picture they have, this is the only thing that you'll see on the skyline. And Roxbury residents, 200 plus have said that they have concerns about this. And for the process to keep moving along with the support of the BPDA, which has an agenda to get this done, into the ignore the Roxbury residents, which is a part of this. And it's exciting and art of the 50 under the Roxbury is zoning is incorrect. It's wrong. It was not a minor modification. There is no indication that parking would be addressed. And parking is one of the article 50s requirements. And I'm not sure why the ZBA refusal letter did not mention parking at all. But this building is going to go through. There's going to be a hard. And community with the number of units and the height of this building. So we'd like for the ZBA BPDA to listen to the community. Thank you. But after no madam chair members, the board of minor forays represent in the carpenters meeting. On behalf of all of our members, I would like to welcome on record and support. Thank you. Melissa Lisa. Go ahead. I think this is Melissa Lisa. I'm a great Roxbury. I'm a minor favorite. And we're not supposed to insist now. So the work is stated not to over reiterate the smell of minor change. You can go to the hotel. He says not require parking. I'm going to show. In housing that does require parking. Not the areas. And the housing policy is not the most affordable. It is now number of churches, businesses, and housing. The area would be impacted without a comprehensive housing plan. The role of BPDA is to make sure that the public is innocent. Taking consideration. The needs, the needs, the needs, the circumstances, the residents of the area. This is designed and development as proposed with the number of units. You're not taking that into consideration. I'm not sure how to. Thank you. Last person please. From last year. Yep. By the way. Yes. Hello. I'm Bud Laravie. And I live at 617 Massachusetts. I have in Roxbury, Massachusetts. I am in a butter. And I have been here in on mass ads since 1985. I'm also the president of Washington, Gateway, being streets. And with Washington, Gateway, being streets along with this block of the mass ads are wholly in support of this project. Washington, Gateway, has been pro development for the last 25 years of its existence from Sheila Grove all the way through Randy Laythrop, through myself and Mark LeClack, La Cascua, which was former president. This is necessary for, as John Santiago said, for the development and sustaining a business in this area. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So what I would like to say for the residents who live in Roxbury that you should take up the conversation with the BPD and the mayor's office of neighborhood services about what is Roxbury and what is the south end and what is that middle area. This is not a conversation. This board will get in the middle of so we acknowledge all the voices that we've heard. We've acknowledged all the concerns that we've heard. So given that, I would like to get a motion on the table on this proposal. I'll second here. Mr. Horton. Hi. Mr. Oleg. All right. Mr. Mistalk. Hi. Oh, there's a hero jumping begun again. Mr. Robinson. Hi. And Mr. Legress has recused himself. I too am in support. So the project area is unanimously for all the sitting voting members. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Following an ex-case calling BLA 1307395, 25 Godner Street. Just to construct a new 14 unit multi-family dwelling. The violation of Article 51, Section 56, Office 3 parking and loy. Article 51, Section 57.3 traffic visibility across the corner. Article 51, Section 99, Mallardus and sufficient. Article 51, Section 9, thirty of eachiels, excessive. Article 51, Section 9, the bill has its section written stories. Article 51, Section 9, the bill has it's recessive. Article 51, Section nine uses local spaces and sufficient. Article 51, Section nine. The front yard is insufficient. Article 51, Section nine. Sunb Memorial Taxics Member of the votator. MPs exceed the number of following 121C. Act so far supplagados are not surrounded to control the number of ticker-pim Р. So sorry council. Madam Chair, this is a back-to-back for me. I'll be re-tusing myself on this as well. Okay. Thank you Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is George Moran. I'm a attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and self-host and I represent city-reel and the management, architectural services are being provided by Tanya Carrier from College of Design. I do understand that this is a six-member board and that five of the six members would need to vote in order for this project to be approved and my client chooses to go forward at this time. This is an application for a new four-story 14-unit rental building at 25 Gardner Street in Olsen at the corner of Lyndon Street. This is one block up from Brighton Avenue and one block over from Harvard Avenue. The law is 7,268 square feet with an existing three-family dwelling within a 3F-4,000 zoning sub-district which quickly transitions to Harvard Avenue Community Commercial Zoning. Accordingly, the surrounding areas characterized substantially by a multi-family and mixed-use buildings of the 29 nearest developed bots within a 300-foot radius. There are 11 two or three-family dwellings, 11 multi-families, three mixed-use buildings and four commercial buildings. This matter was deferred as it was initially cited under Article 50. Roniously, this is, of course, Article 51, the Austin Brighton neighborhood article was re-advertised as such. My client will be providing 21% IDP affordability rather than 13% required with three of these units being committed as affordable units. The ground floor would consist of three. Sorry, are they all on slide? Yes, on site. In fact, the ground floor would consist of two of the proposed IDP units, units one and two, of 739 and 743 square feet respectively. We're working with the city's designated these as artists live work units. The remainder of the ground floor would consist of secure bike storage and the building's main entrance and elevator lobby. The second, third and fourth floor is what each consists of four units. One bedroom unit of 672 square feet, two bedroom unit of 817 square feet, and two three bedroom units of 1229 and 1351 square feet. Unit nine on the third floor is a 1351 square foot of three bedroom, which is the third designated IDP unit. All units would have access to either balconies. Hello, Mr. Marancy. So tell us how many one bedrooms there are, two, two's, and three's on their average square footage. There are two artists live work spaces as currently designated with an average of four to seven hundred and forty one square feet. There are three one bedroom units with an average, with, they're all the same, 672 square feet, three two bedroom units of 817 square feet, and six three bedroom units with an average square footage of 1290 square feet. The three bedroom IDP unit would be 1351 square feet. Sorry, 1351 for the IDP, three bedroom. Correct. All units would have access to either balconies or patio space with over 18 hundred square feet of open space provided. Ample storage for all units would be provided in the building's basement, where there would also be additional eight bike, an eight bike storage and repair room. The roof of the building would be unoccupied. There would be four off-street parking spaces, taking advantage of the site's postpartumity to go eat green line light rail service, the numerous bus stops. There are originally six vehicular parking spaces programs like during community process. It was requested to eliminate two spaces to allow for larger enclosed bicycle storage area. There are 12 interior and four exterior bikes, parking spaces at grade, plus again, that additional room for eight bike storage and repair in the basement. There's only relief being sawed as opposed to insufficient lot size, which as I mentioned, is 7,268 square feet. Excessive floor area ratio, which is proposed at 2.37 as opposed to 0.8 by code, as well as excessive building height. The maximum height under zoning is three stories of 35 feet while being proposed as four stories in 43.5 feet, which is quite consistent actually though with the existing buildings on the other three corners of this intersection. The proposed front setback is 10 feet while the street modal is actually zero. The required rear yard side yard setback is five feet, it's 10 feet required between structures. Here, the left side setback, which is on the Lyndon street, is substantially seven feet. The right side setback is eight feet from the lot line, 10 feet of separation distance to the building on the abutting lot. The required rear yard setback, with the shallow lot exception just under 20 feet while the proposed setback is five feet seven inches to the mixed use building in the rear. There's a cited violation for traffic visibility across corner. A visibility diagram was included in the submission set of plans, but I believe the site plan bears out that building is very close to meeting cross corner visibility requirements. And there is of course a violation for insufficient off-street parking. Finally, I just want to mention. I'm sorry, Mr. Marancy, you're driving four off-street parking, what's required? Under Article 51, space is pretty well in unit. So there would be 28 parking spaces required, which essentially would convert the, the lock to a parking garage. I have this, there's no room. And finally, I did want to mention that my clients will also be granting a pedestrian easement to the city of Austin, subject of BPDA and PIC approval. In order to allow for the widening of properties gardener street sidewalk from six feet four inches to 11 feet, which will include a new tree pit and permeable paver strip with seven foot clear sidewalk in compliance with complete streets. That'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Okay, thanks for the complete presentation. So there's no roof deck, an artist's work, average of 741 square feet. Okay, I did have a question, but it slipped my mind. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think it is consistent with the three other abouting buildings on the corner to anchor this. I think the landscape is actually quite nice. No other questions. I think that the 21% IDP is also a nice thing that's coming to us. No questions from me on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Mr. Morensi, I just wanted to confirm, is this proposed to be rental? Yes, I did mention that in my introduction, it's proposed as a 14-unit rental building. Okay. And actually, I'm sorry, and just on the parking, there'd be seven spaces. I wish to correct myself. So there is a lift stacking system being proposed. So that seven parking spaces in the four slots, but there'd be seven spaces, one surface and six on the list. And I think the next question is, we've seen a lot of these properties ensuring that they go on the market as rentals during, not during the school year, or peak rental season for students, is there such a thing in place for this proposal? I can, there are my clients representative, Jacob Simmons, speak, or I can represent that my client, the CRM works very closely with all the communities where it has rental units, particularly in Austin and in Brighton on those issues. And this is not a building that will be actively or otherwise marketed to students. And my clients would take all appropriate steps in terms of the timing of the marketing of the units to ensure that the building population is targeting longer term, longer term non-student tenants. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office deferred judgment to the board. Some background information on the community process, our office conducted the butters, meaning on March 30th. There was a resident and a butter and attended to a concerns regarding the density. The applicant went on to have several constructive presentations and meetings with the All-Sitth Association and achieved their support. The civic cited, like the look of the building, and was pleased with the applicant's commitment to affordable housing for artists. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good, sorry. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Mulaney from Councillor Lay's grade in the office. The Councillor, we'd like to go on a matter of support of this project. Thanks. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have a couple of letters that support one opposition to Mayor's Office for a couple. Thank you. Okay, Tony, go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Duzaguro representing the All-Sitth and Civic Association. We'd like to echo all the comments made previously. This project was very attractive to our membership and we would like to go and record and support. Okay, Annabelle. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton-Alson-Frozen Association. We'd like to go and record and support. We are very pleased with the 21% affordable and the work that the proponent put in and working with the community. Thank you. Tony, are you still on? I am. So, Annabelle, you too. What strategies are in place so that this isn't a student-renful building? Well, Madam Chair, all we can do and we've been pretty consistent with the performance on this that when we do have rental housing, we make it very clear that we do not want to see the property being used for student purposes. We've had some good results in the sense that some proponents have agreed to include language in the leases. I understand. I believe up in Mission Hill and the Fenway. I actually thought that was one on Cambridge Street and all of a sudden just down the street, but I may be wrong. Yeah, but I mean, there are some projects where language has been put into the leases and we try to be as upfront about it as possible. We don't need to give the institutions and excuse to continue to increase enrollment and just dump the students onto our community. So again, we push for that kind of restructure. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, is that over everybody? Yep, Jacob Simmons. Did you look in the test monitor here? Sorry. Chair, I would like to thank more Jacob Simmons with the City of Realty, the proponent. We committed at the ACA and the BAIA to no undergrads where our plan is to honor that commitment. Thank you. And I would like to know what you're saying. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Motion with DPD is on or below. Second. Mr. Fortune. I. Mr. Ehrlich. I. Ms. Dong. Mr. Ruggiero. Mr. Robinson. Mr. Ligris has recused himself I-2 in support. So this motion carries unanimously by all sitting voting board members. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the last case of the day, calling BLA 1173599, 535 to 537 B Washington Street. This is a change of article to retail, cannabis, establishment, the violation of article 51, 616. The retail, cannabis, established, reduced, is conditional. Name and address, or the record please. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mike Rorross. I am an attorney for law for Prince Nobel, one international place. I'm here with my client, Kobe Evans, Puro Wases, who has previously appeared before the board and is an equity applicant. We defer this case back in May of 2022, just two minor changes on the plan that we weren't able to get in on time to the board. We could start here. So we are seeking a conditional use permit for the use of a cannabis establishment at this site. It's a straight conditional use permit. There are no buffer conflicts, and it's in an NS1 district. This slide here shows you what the current is closed, but what the previous historic use has been for this site at F-535 Washington Street, was previously Swan Cleaner's a dry cleaning. It sits on the corner of Washington and Fairbank Street, and we'll have a corner entrance. I can actually, you can, a man, a master, you can tell us which, which drawing we should go to to understand operation. Yeah, yeah, man, master, could you go to this slide one please? Thank you. Just focusing on the right there. So it's a corner building, Fairbanks and Washington, corner entrance, separate exit. And in the back, you see four parking spaces. Those parking spaces are going to be for employee only. This is an existing parking area in the back of the building, and deliveries will arrive through the rear of the building. I'll show you that in a moment. If you go to slide three now, Madam Ambassador, I'm going to walk the board through the floor plan. So as you can see, you have about 3,500 square feet total of this first floor. The public facing, you know, retail area itself is right there on the lower right hand corner of the plan. You can see the corner entrance with the arrows, and then you can see the separate exit right there and a mid building onto Washington Street. So let's, you know, we've seen a number of these. So let's go directly to the specifics on this. So if you have four spaces and your employee only, how many staff are you expecting to have at any one shift? You know, Kobe is on the line. Even he can give you a lot more detail. You know, we've submitted that we'll have between 10 and 12 employees at this site. This is a very small site, and even that might be a little bit much. Okay. He's currently operating one of these other facilities, and in the process of opening another one downtown. So he has great experience on the ground. So we're happy to get more into the weeds if you have questions on that. This site here would be very small. There'd be five point of sale stations. How many square feet is this? So the entire floor here, including the rear of house, where the deliveries will come from is 3500 square feet. Okay. The retail area is about a quarter of that. And then all the rest of the space is just dedicated to back of space, back of house space for a small vault. So given that this is a small space, I'm assuming that the bulk of the business will be online then? Yeah, I mean, again, Kobe's the best source for this, but we're going to do that. Please, let's put your name and address on the record, please. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board, Kobe Evans, 434-Lav, Heroicist. And you're the one who runs the open facility that's open at Grovaal, right? Correct. Okay. So I happened to be in the West End yesterday and walked by Ascend. Okay. And so, got a sense of how these things operate in a city environment. I have not had the, I have not walked through your facility in Grovaal, though I do drive by fairly frequently. What I was kind of disturbed about was that that project on Friends Street came in as a minority, as a minority applicant, and is no longer a minority applicant very shortly into its time of operation. So I just want to find out what this, you know, this actually means, and Mr. Pantoros, you may have a deep a die on this, because I don't know what the commitment is to the city and in your host agreement, you know, how long does it need to be a minority owned or minority participant? Yeah, I'm not sure. I was the attorney on another project, and it's all public knowledge. So I'm not giving away any secrets. That was not a social equity applicant, or a Boston equity applicant, as this one is. And the rules are considerably different as enforced at the Boston Cannabis Board. And that rule is specific for a Boston equity applicant. Any changes of ownership have to go back to the board. And in no way, shape or form shall be less than 51%, otherwise they would lose their Boston social equity status. So they're different. Let me ask you then. So a facility is often running. It loses its Boston equity applicant applicant status. But what does that mean? I mean, it's running. It's, you know, what does that mean? You have to go back to the Boston Cannabis Board and it would not be allowed to transfer the ownership without their approval. They have to approve it in order for the license to continue. And so that's why they've created a process for that. And I do not believe that they would, at this point, they haven't allowed any social equity applicants to sell out 100% of their assets. What you've seen up to now is just sales for the non-social equity applicants or sales, like in the case of the folks for the Shavas brothers where they sold 49% of their interest, but maintain that other 51% thus remaining social equity applicants. So there's that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for the question, Mentor. I do want to put on the record. Slides of four is the basement. It's just storage as it has been. Slides five through eight will show you some renderings of the facility just so you can get a field for it. But what I did want to place on the record is all the way on slide nine. And that is the McMahon Associates Traffic Study that was conducted. The engineers went out to the field in October and November and in December. And they looked at two key indicators, parking and traffic. And it was determined by the can associates that on street parking would be adequate for the anticipated volume. They anticipated the volume to be approximately 300 people per day over the 11 hours. We're talking about a 10 AM opening, not shared to a 9 PM closing. So over an 11 hour day, approximately 300 customers. But only half of those customers would be arriving using a vehicle the other half, including 35% would be arriving based on the traffic study on transit. In this slide here, where you're looking at, the green shows the bike lanes. This is a very heavily biked area. And the blue lines show available parking throughout this neighborhood. It's undesignated. It's not listed as resident or non-resident. These are all undesignated parking areas. And we did on the next slide take a look at the historic parking patterns since from all the way back to 2011 to all the way to 2020. These were randomly generated. And they support the findings of the traffic study, which just say that there's capacity at this site. And that's what they found in their analysis. So hold on, Mr. Rossmere. Ask Mr. Evans, what in your hours of operation are supposed to be? I think we are, we are on the closing time to, I believe, eight o'clock. And we're opening at 10 o'clock, so it's 10 to 8. How many days a week? Seven days a week. Seven days a week, OK. And you're anticipating that you will have 10 to 12 employees who will take, OK, and OK, got it. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good, actually, and certainly show what the uponerness outlined in terms of their operations and locations. So no questions, it looks like they're actually also looking at exterior upgrades as well. OK, thank you. Any questions from the board? Mr. Domingo, I notice you have your hand raised? Yes, Madam Chair, lady, members of the board, both the vehicle BTV. Correct me for long, but the parking plan on the drawn portion of it seems to be different than the actual photograph depicting the parking design. And secondly, when I saw the actual parking some time ago, it was a dirt lot. Is it dirt or is it hot chalk? I believe this. So two things. One is it is an existing curb cut. And secondly, there is a considerable amount of dirt. And it seems to be over some sort of base. I don't know if it's asphalt or concrete. So I can't tell you, but I do know from cutting the grass back there, there is a considerable amount of grass and dirt back there right now. Madam Chair, lady, I'd like to reduce the number of parking spaces. Just my suggestion from four to two spaces. And is that for what is the reason Mr. Domingo? Manoeuvrability. OK. And Madam Chair, those were just employee spaces for the reasons that Mr. Domingo pointed out. We recognize that with customers that wouldn't be convenient, but for tandem parking for which parking is not required at this site due to the age of this building. But four spaces would be good for our employees. And we just thought that made most sense. Yeah. And you just have to be cognizant that all the site streets are fairly residential. And you just got to think about community relations. And if that's a smart thing to have all that, everybody park on residential streets. OK. Thanks, Mr. Domingo. Mr. Hampton, what did the BPDA recommend? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm a support Jeff Hant, the BPDA. We recommended approval. Our early provision would be for signage. OK. OK. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Ablehood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office looked at going record in opposition to this proposal. The Mayor's Office conducted two public meetings over the course of a long community process. The first was on April 20, 2021. We had an additional one after they were initially denied by the Boston Campus Board on February 17, 2022. They wanted to get support from the Boston Campus Board. At both of those meetings, overwhelmingly residents that attended were in opposition to this proposal. There was a lot of concerns regarding the proximity to the Mary Lions lower school, which is just outside the five-month-foot buffer, as well as proximity to residential units being right next to it. Concerns with the condition of the road it slightly bends in an arc, which leads to some blind spots, as well as Langley Road, which is a very difficult street running directly into that intersection. Residents felt that there was incredibly unsafe, and it's not suitable. The applicant mentioned a traffic study. A lot of criticism from the community was that it did not take into account the impacts on a lot of side streets, where residents are already struggled to park during certain hours of the day, such as the proposed highest peak of customers attending a establishment, as well as concerns also with the proxy and the elsewhere YMCA. They went on to the right and also an improvement association received opposition from that civic group, as well as letters of opposition from Brett Moran and Brett Poonin, which are the two local state reps of that area. So, Mr. Chairman, what you just asked is, so the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services has a policy of reporting the process, but not taking stand lately. So this is the second project, and if I'm clear, the Mayor's Office is going on record in opposition. Correct. I do want to mention just regarding letters that we've received. They're roughly 75 residents reach out from that immediate area, most of them direct the butters that went on to the position. From the applicant, we did receive 200 signatures. It's in support. Good chunk of those were from Oak Square, with also the remainder being from the broader neighborhood. With that, like I said before, we wish it's going on to the position. Thank you. Okay, so the Lions School is outside of the Buffett Zone, and the YMCA is outside of the Buffett Zone, right? Correct. Okay, so then it means that there is an inherent conflict with what the neighborhood wants versus what the regulations put in as a Buffett Zone. I would say it's correct. Okay, okay, thank you. So it looks like there are a lot of raise hands. I would like to hear from five people, and I need people who are direct butters to the project. So that's besides Annabelle Gomes, it represents the BAAIA. I need to hear from five people who are direct butters. Everybody else, please put your hand down. Thank you. Okay, go ahead, Annabelle. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton Gomes and Law Association, the BAA voted to oppose the project based on the traffic impacts and the lack of parking. Thank you. William Gomes, you say you may not just put the bike in, please? Can you hear me? Yes. This is William Schucher. I'm the most direct butter. I'm ranked in the store at 5.30 and I'm watching the street. Our properties are separated by 30 inches. I've written a lot of emails. I've done a lot of. Please, Elizabeth, you're in support or in opposition? And when I'm in opposition? Okay. But I'd also like to say. That's based on. This is based on, well, first of all, in hearing the presentation today, it's a different presentation that they gave to the BCB and that troubles me. They showed pictures today of the outside of their building and I have sent you. Okay. I'm Mr. Schucher. I just did this. Please be respectful of what I've just said. Okay. What is your opposition based on? And I need bullet points. Bullet points are that is a heavily parked neighborhood by resident. This will take the parking from that. Apparently this will not provide adequate off-screen parking and this will harm the neighborhood. Thank you. Second bullet point I'd say is security. My building is 30 inches away with an alleyway. I sent an email today. I am concerned for my first floor cannons about breaking it and I don't feel that this, I feel that this will attract persons who will use my building as a target and there are many places to hide around it. I'm certainly opposed to this and I've sent many emails. Thank you. All right. You want my rent? Could we have a new yet? No, you have not. Go ahead. For the record, my name is Representative Michael Moran. I represented this community in this district for 18 years in the legislature. I would like to join the mayor of the city of Boston and my colleague, who mostem writing Representative Hone in an opposition to this pure oasis. It is based solely on the fact that the, I saw the pictures that they showed you of parking. I don't know when they took those. It might have been during the pandemic, but I can assure you with Papa John and all the other businesses down there, there it looks nothing like that on a day-to-day basis. We've just learned that they've cut their spots in the back from four to two. That accounts for deliveries and 12 employees and with no spots guaranteed for anybody of the 150 or so per day that are going to be coming there to shock. I want to join my, our butters, the BAI, and many people in the community in opposition to this. And I would ask the board to deny this application. Yeah, no problem. Thank you. Bob Demiko. No, we're done. No, Bob, we have to go. Let's just go. And please, we have heard from whom we need to hear from four people. And then I'm closing half a comment. Only a butters, please. OK. Madam Chair, the Secretary, I just wanted to echo the comments of the Mayas Abbot. We do have those letters of support. And obviously the letters of opposition as well. Thank you. OK, Leanne. Yes, I'm Leanne Branden, 19 Langley Road. I've been living here for 40 years, homeowner. I have to tell you that parking right now is almost impossible after 3.30 or 4 o'clock in the afternoon. The traffic survey and the report seems to indicate there's heavy bicycle traffic. I think I've seen five bicycles maybe a day on Washington Street. There is absolutely no parking for trucks. And one of the things that's not shown on most of their pictures is that there's a fire hydrant right in front of it. All of the streets coming into Washington Street are one way or are so narrow that only one car can go through. Thank you. So we've heard about traffic. We've heard about the residential uses. And the butter has talked about security. Can I hear from the next person? And please give us new information. Sarah? Hi, I'm Sarah Lipson. And I would just like to express my strong support of this. Let's hear a dress please. 151 Brook Street in Oaksquare. And I just want to share my strong support for this as a black owned business. And I think something that would be a big benefit to the community. Thank you. Thank you. So, Williams? Hi, yes. I'm Sleenis. My address is 512 Washington Street. I am in support of this. I think that public transit and walking is still an option here. So, yeah, I think that will still benefit the community in many ways. Thank you. One more person. And then we'll close in a comment. Yeah. Sarah? Senator, I have a question for you. It sounds rude. Hello? Hello? Yes. Hi. My name is Farah. I live at 35 Langley Road in Breiter. And I'm calling in opposition to this to the purer noises. Particularly because traffic and safety issues. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So, we're going to close up comment. Mr. Ross, Councillor Ross, any brief rebuttles, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, we would ask the board to just take a fact-based look at what a conditional use permit requires and whether or not the applicant achieved its burden when it went out and had its traffic engineer conduct not one, not two, but three separate site visits of the location and came back with a finding that there is no nuisance or issue that would be created. Were this to be a variance case? Were this to be a case where you did have a buffer zone conflict? I think it would invite a lot more subjectivity and a lot more opinion-based comments. Like we heard and much more capacity for the board to make a decision based on that. But in the fact that this is a straight conditional use permit, opinion isn't one of the items that the board should be looking to in terms of deciding whether or not it meets the standard. So we would just ask the board to consider that. Thank you. Okay. Okay, so please everybody put your hands down. Miss M. Vastek and everybody be muted and let's go for a motion. May I have a motion from somebody? I'm sure I'll make a motion tonight. Is there a second? There is no second, so motion doesn't carry. May I have another motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? I'll second down motion. Okay, and so is that a design review into this applicant only? Yes, yes. And so there's a motion, a second. Let me just walk down the list, Mr. Fortune. Aye. Mr. Erleck. Aye. Ms. Dawg. Posed. Mr. Ruggiero. Opposed. Mr. Robinson. Aye. Mr. Ligress. Nay. Okay, so there's already three opposition, so it's been denied. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Madam Chair. May I just ask every board member to stay on for a minute. The meeting is now adjourned. Thank you. Recording stopped.