 Good morning. The Board of Appeals for Tuesday, May 23 is now in session. Just a reminder, please make sure all the cell phones are off. In conformance with the open meeting law, this meeting is being live streamed and will be available online. Just a reminder, the Board takes comments from the BRA, from the community, from the mayor's office, all under advisement. We are here to listen to testimony from you. Please try and keep your comments whether you're in support or in opposition brief and to the point. If somebody else has already mentioned your concern, please try not to repeat it because we are here fact finding and the more information we can get the better the decision is that we can make. With that, the rest of the meeting will be chaired by Mr. Arleck. Mark? Thank you, Madam Chair. First, approval of the May 9 meeting. Need a motion? Could I raise one point? And it has to do with still free bring-up. I will fold that to the board members today. I will approve the next meeting. Second. Second. All opposed? Call the first. Case to order here. An extension. We have a motion. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, Jeff Drego with Drego and Disconto. We are seeking a one-year extension of permits if possible due to the flood map changes in this area after we were already approved greatly affected our planning and our building design. We are dealing with the NBTA for permitting because we are above a T station as well as part of this project so it has delayed the project that we are now on schedule. Make a motion for one-year extension. Second. All opposed? All opposed? All opposed? Call the next case calling B-O-A-4130368 Gov Street. It's Gov Street here. Name an address for the record, please. Gov. Name an address for the record, please. 68 Gov Street. Good morning, board of appeals. My name is Wabel-Livas. It's assigned by us and representing my client, Mr. Chang. I requested that one-year extension for the hearing combine lots and a rexx family condos, which is granted on March 15th to 20th. Due to ISD processing and B-R-A processing. Have you had a neighbourhood input? Yes, we have. It's already been approved by the B-R-A as of April, I'm sorry. March, no, no. April 3rd, 2017. Can you need a whole year, you think? I think I need a whole year, yes. What's the plan for the board? What's the three-extend one year? Second. I just wanted to clarify something. So you got your approval in March 15th. And when did the permit actually expire? Was it March 17th? Yes, March 15th, 2017. So as of now, your permit has expired for a few months. Yes. Okay, just the heads up to people, not the chair, but to come to us before the permit expires. There's a motion on the floor to a graphic one-year extension and a second. All those are favourites. All right. I'll post the vote on the ground. Thank you very much. Quality of the next case, calling BCC, 32973, 27-29H Street. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Chair and members. My name is George Moranci, I'm the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in Salt Boston. I'm joined by my client, Steven Turner, and by James Christopher R.C.A. The Project Architects. Madam Chair and members, this is also a request for an extension. This was before the board two weeks ago. There was some confusion between me and my client as to who was going to request the extension. He wasn't here and the board effectively table this. We're back now asking for a one-year extension. Much like the previous case, this is a matter where the relief in fact expired in January of this year. My client has been involved for some time with some site issues. He has been looking for a potential oil tank on the property. There was a change in the unit configurations, a reduction in units from 12 to 11 that had to be approved by the BRA and the Affordable Housing Agreement Green Negotiated. With all of that, he did lose sight of the expiration date of the relief. We would like a one-year extension from the date hereof. He is finally ready to move forward and would hate to lose the project over a minor oversight. Where is the community process that this is? I think the community is fine with this. It was approved originally in January 2013. It was extended. I believe that if board would like to hear from any representatives of elected officials. I'm just asking in terms of the extension whether that will involve additional community processes. No, I'm sorry. I misunderstood the question. No additional community processes. Mr. Arley. I think I'll move. Who approved? The second. One-year extension. The one-year extension? Yes. All those of the members. Aye. All those. Thank you. Collin G. Collin, case BOA 685 280 27 to 29 North Mods in St. I think I've just gave it two cases. I think I'll do that with your question. Name and address for the record, please. I'll pass the case. That's Seymour for 27 North Larding Street. We are seeking relief for Round Bar overlay. And we're presenting a no harm letter that Mr. Simonelli has seen already. Thank you. Come on in, Chair and Members of the Boyle, Tristan Simonelli, Groundwater Trust, Tutor and I, Berkeley Street, Boston, Mass. We do have the no harm letter from the applicant, and they aren't complaints. We don't have the letter now. Okay. Copy the letter. Be provided. Is that the only issue that's the recording? Yes, sir. Okay. We're marching to the board. Closer to the board. Second. All those of the favour? Aye. All the phone. All that. Thank you. Call it a 19. 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Consulate. Address? Yes. 90-102, Tenian Street. Ward 16. Hold on a second. Sorry. We'll be back with them. Well, the record calling VOA 678322 90-102 Tenian Street. Name an address for the record please. Jeff Drego, Attorney for the applicant. With Drego and Tuscano 15 Broad Street. We have been working with the community over a period of time. I know this particular application and billboards in general in this area. The mayor's office in City Council of Assets to defer, continue to work with them, and the neighbourhood on this evolving area. So we would ask for an extension of possible. If there's anything in August, I don't know if that's at all possible. Okay. And there's the motion on the request. Post for the deferral. Second. All those in favour? Aye. I vote. The number 15. All those in favour? Yes. Thank you. I'm also 47-49 Walnut Street in Ward 16. Okay. For the record calling VOA 676738 4749 Walnut Street. Name an address for the record. Jeff Drego, Attorney for the applicant. Drego and Tuscano 15 Broad Street. We have been working with the Port Norfolk Group. We are now going back on their agenda in June. We've made some additional changes to the project like increasing parking and some design changes. So we would seek a deferral. Motion to defer. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Thank you. We have a date of 815. Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Address please. 168 Bigelow Street. Public. Bigelow Street? Yes. Okay. Call for the record. Call in VOA 603585 168 Bigelow Street. Name an address for the record please. Don't you have a current 29th Falcon Street? Turn it for the applicant. Uh, I'm going to put it in. What's the reason for the request? We have been through the community process. We presented that Bright Noth and improving the association got their approval in April. But in the last week it comes out of the attention that there's been some community opposition to the project. And to give us a chance to address that, we'd ask for a deferral. The vote for the board. Motion to defer. Second. All vote in favour? Aye. All vote. August 15th. Thank you. Address please. 612 Northwick Street. For the record calling VOA 659 167 1612 Northwick Street. Name an address for the record. Brush me around the swammy. Um, 113 ha to be in Cambridge and the architect for the project. What is your request? What hero are you requesting of the furlough with roll? Requesting a deferral to continue the community process. And we provide further clarifications for the project. If you have meetings, go already. We are in the process of it. We've had some meetings. We've heard that the community would like further clarification about the program. And we'd like the opportunity to provide that. The motion from the board. The deferral. Second. All of the favour? Aye. All opposed. The bill is on the date of August 15th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that would draw us for 930? Hearing number called the first case. Calling POA 660 49188 to 94 Lincoln Street. This is from Scarlett, new 14 by 48 two-sided electronic billboard on a monopole. Violation, article 11, section 7. Electronic signs have been with 150 feet from a residential district and elsewhere in the city. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Mr. Chairman, that was the board. It's already Derek Small. This is just a 15-broad street, vast mass, 02109. With me today, it's James Christopher, the architect for the project. And Bob Mess here from Dectronics, we did the lighting study, we also do the journals. Today we are seeking relief to erect a 14 by 48, Democratic, electronic billboard at 94 Lincoln Street. 94, the site, Zorn Lincoln Street, which is parallel to the mass pike. The violation, the zoning sub district for the site is an NS1, a shopping district. The rear of the bill, Jane, abuts a 3F 4000 residential sub district, which is the only violation that we have on the city. Primary use of the board, obviously, is for advertising. But the board will also aid law enforcement in displaying amber alerts, public service announcements, and also be to help with the opioid crisis and displaying announcements with regard to that. It's not all to me, I'm sorry, it's a big news. Yes, within 150 of the sub district, that's correct. We remember the community we had meeting with the BAA and EACA, a Z-Policy, not to support billboards. But we do have several letters of support from neighboring businesses and residents. I'd like to see Nick Dose for the record. At this time, we'll pause the work and say anything questions. What is there now? It's a commercial cleaning company in the building that's there now. There's no existing board. And what's the closest, how far away is the closest of the billboard? It exceeds 500 feet, but just outside of the 500 foot radius. It's indicated on the site plan as well. Yeah, you guys saw the site plan inside the packet that was handed out. And the lines show the radius of the nearest billboards down there. Anybody here that speaks of the Bay Road project? Madam Chair, members of the board, Warren Raleigh, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go in record and support. Before I take any more testimony, Ms. Pisani, how are the plans? Rise, Rick. You're here to speak in support? Yes, I am. Andrea Long, Suffolk County Sheriff's Department. Dennis, skill foil, is supposed to be here. We just want to let you know that the sheriff, Tom Kins, is in favor of this for public safety reasons. Anybody here to speak in opposition? Again, we have a number of people here. If it's like you remind the speakers of the previous comments, please try not to repeat what others have said before you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Daniel Blanco, behalf of Councillor Mark C. Young, we'd like to go in record and opposition. We are aware that the BPDA is currently working on rezoning the highway couriers of I-93. We were also not aware of the butters meeting. So at this time, we'd like to go in record and support. Any opposition? Good morning, members of the board. Alana Olson, on behalf of Councillor Anissa Sabi-George, we'd like to go on record and opposition. My name is Paul Berkeley. I live at 44 Alley Street in Austin. I'm President of the Austin Pacific Association. I live on the same side of the term pike as the location for this billboard. There are about 15 billboards along Austin and Brighton's stretch of the term pike. Over the years, we've worked very hard to try to get rid of them whenever the opportunity presented itself. Occasionally, property will change hands and the developer that buys the property is agreeable to removing the billboard. We've got some success with that. But this is just a proposal to put another new one up. And it's contradictory to what we're trying to achieve there. We feel like we've been unfairly targeted for billboards because of our location. The term pike extension went into 1965. And these billboards all went up right around that time. And unless they fall down on their own, there's really no way to get rid of them because they can talk somebody into doing it voluntarily. So we did not support this billboard. This is actually probably the largest billboard that you can put up. 48 feet wide. It's on a monopole that I feel what the height was. I think maybe he said around 60 feet. So you don't have to live next door to this to see it. You just need to live in that community. So as I said, we voted to oppose it. I'm Carol Ridge Martinez. I'm the executive director of Austin, Brighton, CDC. We have a targeted home ownership program in the North Brighton, lower-all, Austin neighborhood, South Waverly is right in the middle of that. We have been trying to create, we've been buying property in that neighborhood, getting it out of the hands of investors, and turning it into owner-occupied property. We've bought two on South Waverly Street that have been bought by owner occupants. This type of a project takes away from the owner-occupied nature of the neighborhood and the way that we're trying to create a buffer on Lincoln Street so that we can finally really buffer the mass pike from the rest of the neighborhood, which has been cut off from Austin and Brighton for years. This is very detrimental, putting a digital billboard up over there, is very detrimental to creating and continuing to create the kind of neighborhood for families that we have been working on. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, they presented to us in December of last year, and we voted completely against it. It is against Article 51. Bill Boards are forbidden, and we strongly oppose this project. Thank you. My name is Zeta Websler. I'm a culture of a homeowner's union of Austin Brighton, an organization that was formed last year, and it's now probably one of the largest civic groups in Austin Brighton. We oppose this project because we believe that this area, where this billboard is changing, it becomes residential. We need to take pride in our neighborhood. We cannot really have digital billboards that shine into people's windows and eyes. It's just inappropriate. And since the city is allowing all this residential development, they're pleased to give us the residential atmosphere for this neighborhood as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Donan Carol Falkens, from Brighton. I oppose projects not opposed, and frankly, reason other than it's a new billboard. The community has a great success of the past few months and having a number of billboards removed. And this does not be placing a billboard. It's actually an addition to the existing billboards and for that reason, I oppose. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Gene Powers. I live on Adamson Street in Austin. I'm about a block away from the billboard. This is actually the first I heard about the billboard. I'm here about something else. So I just want to say I'd rather not have it layering through my back windows. Thank you. I am Dennis Gillefly, I represent the Sub-Country Sheriff's Department. I do apologize that I knew you were in opposition right now. I was a little behind in the scheduling here. The sheriff, I represent Steve Tompkins. And he is in favor of this because we think this is going to be a public safety tool. We want to use it for different elements, a little bit of problems. We want to use it for amber alert. And the sheriff's department feels that this is going to be a working tool for public safety for us. So we are in favor of this billboard. Thank you. The BPDA can tell us about the recommendation. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. As you know, the BPDA supports no electronic billboards along any of the corners. However, with that being said, if the board does look favorably upon this, the BPDA requests that the appellant enters into a license agreement that is stipulated in Article 11 of the Zoning Code. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we have a network of BPDA. We are kind of a two-way licensing agreement. Let's pleasure the board. I make a motion to approve with BPDA design review. With the Life and Sing Orange. Yes. Thank you. All in favor? Aye. All opposed. Motion to help the government doesn't carry. Just accept this report, and I will make sure that I will post. By me? Who was it, opposition? Opposed. I'll go. Right here. Thank you. Have a good day. calling BOA 694 839 89 to 95 bright nav in you. This is a mixed use development comprising 129 residential apartment units approximately 7,500 square feet of ground floor commercial retail space in Austria parking and associated site improvements. Violation tactical 51 section 8 multi family dwelling to be in the 3 F 4000 district article 51 section 8 retail to be in the 3 F 4000 district. Article 51 section 8 restaurant with take out a civilian article 51 section 9. Lot area for additional dwelling is insufficient a 3 F 4000 district. Article 51 section 9 floating ratio is excessive in a 3 F 4000 district. Article 51 section 9 the height is excessive 3 F 4000 sub district. Article 51 section 9 usable open spaces insufficient in a 3 F 4000 district. Article 51 section 9 side yard is insufficient. Article 51 section 9 the front yard was insufficient through the lots 51 to 57 dash 10. Article 51 section 17 usable open spaces insufficient. Article 51 section 16 multi family dwelling unit is a condition use. Article 51 section 16 restaurant with take out as a condition use. Article 51 section 17 the floating ratio is excessive and Article 51 section 17 the height is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Matt Kiefer. My address is 7 Serena Road in Jamaica, plain. And I'm here representing Brighton Gardner properties and affiliate of Eden properties. The proponent here today with me is Noah Maslin, a principal and project manager of Eden properties and David Chilinski of PCA architects, the project architect. This is a revised version, an amended version of a project that came before the board a year ago. I'd like to take a moment to describe how the projects changed in response to what we heard here a year ago. And the reason for the zoning relief that's requested today as the board may remember the there were several issues raised in the community review process many of which were addressed but two of which were of particular concern to the board. One of them was the parking ratio and the other was undergraduate housing. I want to address those in a minute, but before I do that, just back up to say following we had a large project review process and a vigorous public review before we came here a year ago, we've not only rethought the project but going back out to the community and many of the community groups that were involved in the first round to review these project changes. And I think you'll see that we have some significant support here today. The site at 89 Brighton Avenue actually is a little bit complicated from a sort of zoning point of view. It's three contiguous parcels, 33,000 square feet with three street frontages. It's a through lot. It's a corner lot and it's in two zoning districts. So the list of zoning relief is kind of multiplied because you needed in both districts. In reality, what we're asking for here this morning is or are three items of use relief and six items of dimensional relief. And I'll describe how the project is changed and why we believe that relief is justified. It remains a primarily residential project. It's an apartment project above ground floor retail with off street parking and it replaces some combination of not great uses. One of the lots I had a three story building that was a bike store. There was an Avis budget truck rental and a parking lot on these three sites. We would replace those with 129 apartments and off street parking for 79 cars and street funding sort of small format local retail facing Brighton Avenue, which as the board knows, is a busy retail street. I want to review some changes we've made in response to public reviews. Well, I should say one of the things that was raised early on in the community review process was displacing existing businesses. International bike chose to go out of business, but we did assist in the relocation of Avis budget rental car. It's 183 Cambridge Street nearby. The other business that was on the site. There was some concern about home ownership or preference from home ownership. That's one issue we have not been able to address. We do not see this as a home ownership location, at least not yet, but we believe that it is a location for rental housing and housing that reflects the direction that this specific neighborhood is going in and aspiring to go in and reflects the need in the city for housing. And in particular, the mayor's housing study asking for housing, not just housing production, but housing for the middle, particularly for the sort of middle of the market, which is what this project is targeted towards. We've reduced the size of the building a bit in response to some concerns about its size, its mass, particularly on bright and off and on Lyndon Street. We've set it back 10 feet and reduced the size by 1800 square feet, reduced the unit count to 129 and particularly reduced the number of studio units in the building significantly to 51 studio units. Yes. It was 138 originally 130 when we were in front of you. It was proposed at 138, 131 we were in front of you and it's now 129. The price that we have before us are dated 1122, 16. And we should reflect exactly what has been. No, you should have an updated set of drawings from February 7th. It was approved. We, the notice of project change was approved by the BPD and January and we filed for zoning relief in April. Yeah. What we have is the latest site plan is in June, January. You at least have a mini set. Do you have a, well, we have, we certainly have boards available. David, can the boys be taken 16? So I'm sorry, Commissioner Pazani, if I could just clarify here, do you want to clarify the, I think I had the sequence wrong. So Noah's going to clarify the sequence. No, all that we want to make sure is that that which we approved today reflects what has been approved by the BPD and BCD, etc. So yes, I think it does because when we, when we filed revised plans, we also filed a notice of project change with the BPD. Yeah, I don't want to be a dead hush here by hydrangea dating. Yes, it was at the end of 2016 that would begin to process the, the changes and the notice of project change. So the statement that drives dated October 7th, 2014. The 22nd of November, 2016, they're accurate. The November 2016, certainly. So I think that, that other during with the other day, just didn't change. It probably is a, it may be a feature of the project that didn't change. One, one way to confirm this is to if you look at the six floor and to confirm that it's set back from bright and evident. This is the display. So that's the current set that's correct. There's 129 units and it has 10 additional parking spaces, 79 parking spaces. This has been a little bit of an issue and I want to just take a minute to describe what we've done there. We've both increased the supply and reduced the demand for parking. We have 10 additional spaces, a ratio of 0.6. BTD guidelines suggest a maximum and those guidelines are a little old now. Suggest a maximum of 0.75 to 1.25. 0.6 is sort of right in the middle of the trend line these days for apartments in terms of parking ratios. And we've also done an unusual amount of demand management if you want to think of it that way to reduce the demand for parking. This building is targeted toward middle income price point and it is particularly targeted toward people. It's very easy to live there without a car and I want to describe several of the things. There will be a hub by station on site. There will be zip cars on site. There will be rent credits for hubway, zip car and Uber and Lyft free T pass for every unit when you sign up for a unit. Transit screen and the lobby that gives you sort of real time transit information of nearby bus and transit lines. And a very safe and secure bike parking and bike repair on site to make it easy to use other modes. So in addition to making it very easy to use transit, car share, bike or just walking. This is a neighborhood has a very high walk score actually a .93 which is a very high walk score and it's near a lot of services. It will still in addition to that have .6 units, .6 parking spaces per unit. There was also some concern about undergraduates and that given its location in Austin, it would become filled with undergraduates. We've also taken some measures there. I mentioned we reduced the number of studio units. I'm not sure that's the most important factor because students certainly rent larger units as well. But we have agreed to cap the number of undergraduates to one third of the units and to one resident per bedroom across all of the units. And we are going to have a sort of a one strike policy. We're going to from a management point of view certainly be policing lease violations and institute a one strike policy if you violate lease rules on behavior in the building you're gone. So we've taken those special steps as well to address the main issues that we heard. Just practically how is that done? It's being leased out if you get up to that cap and someone identified themselves. Exactly. It'll be the question will be asked in rental applications and exactly right. It will be memorialized in the cooperation agreement with the BPDA which was part of the notice of project change approval. Just a couple more questions. So tell us what the breakdown of the units are in the square footage. The breakdown is 51 studios. We began with 83 studios, reduced it to 54 and now reduced it further to 51 studios. 32 one bedrooms, 27 one beds plus one beds plus a den and 19 two beds. And David. And the square footage please. I'm going to talk about the range of unit signs. Sure. David Cholinsky with Proletz Cholinsky Associates working back through that same list that Matt just shared with you studios average size is 508 one bedroom average size 616 one bedroom den average size 775 square feet and two bedroom average size 865 square feet. And the portables? There will be the affordable inclusionary development compliance will be entirely on site 17 on site units at 70% of median income. To the one resident of bedroom policy those units that are one bedroom plus den is that one bedroom or so what is the anticipated number of residents in that for the for the undergraduate for the undergraduate so it would be only one one undergrad in the one bedroom plus den. And I would say that the one bedroom plus den as a unit type came up during the community process as a as a response to folks who were saying part of what doesn't exist in the market and also is an ability for a couple and a child or to have especially today with working folks to have a home office as well and that's that's the concept with that unit. The other question is related is related to the parking and the steps that you've taken to decrease the demand. We've seen some projects that have come before us with the piece about tea passes and we're not sure that that has been memorialized and it continues to be a policy. You know these units may start off as apartments but may end up as condos. How do we know that these protections will be in place? Building is there. How do we how will we assure that these systems will be in place to monitor that? They will be in the tapah that will be signing. We've been you know through article 80 review, the Boston Transportation Department has been involved and by the way signed off on this parking ratio I think they think it's appropriate and we will be signing a tapah transportation access plan agreement which will have these commitments memorialized. And in addition to that in the tapah it requires annual certification so they review projects annually. So they'll review it for the tea pass allocation and other things like that? Yeah all of these because all of these things are listed in the tapah as mitigation measures. Okay thank you. Just doing a quick math so the 17 units that are afforded a lot of the 129 that's a 30% city policy. Yes. Couple of violations involved. A restaurant would take out. I assume you don't have a tenant for the restaurant. No we don't. I believe we can grant that. Yes yes our policy is not to give you a pocket pocket take down unless we know exactly what the tenant is. Well we are happy to have conditions attached to that. I know the concern sometimes about takeout is that you know particularly the amount of trash it generates on the sidewalk from takeout use and often the board is granted that with provisos about you know trash patrols about you know pest control sometimes it's an issue. I believe granted when there is an applicant who has potential crack record. Right. So I think what Jared said is that it's not a pocket thing that can fill in layers of we would suggest something coming up separately. Yeah. You can do that. This has been actually asked for by the neighborhood. Yeah. That's part of why we put it in the relief is that it was part of the process to get that type of use in the building. No, they haven't come back. Yeah. We understand. Okay Mr. It's not a hell of a drug. Drugs are adequate in the office. All right. All right. Anybody here who's been in favor of the project? I believe there was. That on Jamm's the board. Warner Riley, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and record in support. The applicant conducted extensive community outreach by additional visits to the civic associations. They have the support of the Brighton also an improvement association. They have the support of local groups. I have a letter of support from the Department of Neighborhood Development and they have an approval from the I.A.G. and the BPD. Thank you. Thank you very much. Once again I see a large number of people please ask the key constituents, Regent and Governor P. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mark. Madam Chair, members. My name is Mark C. I'm also Brighton District City Council. I stand before you in strong support of this proposal. I understand the concerns. I believe the proponents have addressed those concerns. I'm a strong proponent of home ownership. I think if you know this area, this site, it can stand the density. It can also, I believe it's an appropriate use to be rental. It's also, I took my first train out of Boston landing. It's a 13-minute walk to Boston landing. It's a four-minute bike ride to Boston landing, which allows people greater access to downtown and points west. So I see this is a real transit oriented development that can take the density. They did recess the building at the wishes of the community. They reduced the density. So I just want to go on record and support. Thank you. Good morning, members of the board. I'm Alana Olson here on behalf of Boston City Councilor at Largenisa, Savi George. She would like to echo the sentiments of the District Councilor Marxiyomo. She's been watching this project unfold through its various iterations and community process. And would like to say that she really feels that this project on its merits respects the context of where it is. It's very thoughtful to both Gardner Street and Brighton Avenue as a gateway into a thriving small business community, which is Austin Village. She would like to go on record in support of this project. And thank you very much for your consideration. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, from behalf of City Councilor at Largenisa, Flarey, echoing the sentiments of Councilor Siyomo, Councilor at the Goenric in support. Thank you, Madame Chairman, members of the board. Phil Cohen, coming down from upstairs, the BPDA board approved this project on February 11th, 2016. And again, on January 12th of this year. In particular, in particular, we recognize the need for more middle-income housing in this area. We believe that the studios in one bedrooms being proposed will be less appealing than multi-bedrooms for students. But we are also very excited to enter into a cooperation agreement where the development team will be required that no more than one-third the units will be rendered up to students. And generally attempting to reduce traffic, we actually encourage lower parking ratios. However, in this case, we do support the proposal to increase the parking for this project. I also received a letter from the Department of Neighborhood Development yesterday. I believe you did as well. And they also commend this project for increasing middle-income housing and see it as an avenue for more ownership in the area. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board of minor batteries, representing the carpenter's union, and behalf of the hunters and members that live in the board for all the studio balls of what I could go and record support. My name is Carol Rich Martinez. I was on the IAG. I work at 20 Lyndon Street, and I live in Brighton. There are three points that I just want to make to you guys that I don't think that I made as well as I should have the last time I was here. This is a very challenging corner. Lyndon Street is one of the most difficult streets in our community. If you do any kind of nightly visits with the police over there, there is a lot of unsavory stuff going on, and this part of Lyndon Street in particular is very, very difficult. So I just want to make it very clear that this is a revitalization project, that the IAG worked hard to design the windows, so that they would look out onto Lyndon Street. The fact that there are going to be much fewer students living there is a stabilizing factor for a neighborhood that some refer to as the student ghetto. So that's number one. Number two, you're going to, rents are starting to stabilize in Austin, Brighton, which was the intent of the mayor's housing plan, was to create more housing, so there was more supply, and that would stabilize rents. So you're going to hear from a lot of investors, I would imagine, in the next couple of months, who are concerned about their rents going down in small properties in particular. They've been able to rent them out, regardless of the condition of the property at very high rents. I would urge you to remember that, you know, housing policy needs to be based on what's best for the city residents, and not necessarily what's best for investors. And then number three, a lot of people are going to talk to you about home ownership on this corner. I would tell you that I have worked in home ownership housing for 30 years, and we need to remember what's happened in the past, and what could happen again in the future when we talk about home ownership housing. This corner is not ready for home ownership housing. We have run a home buying mentor program, we would not counsel anybody to buy a house on this corner at this moment in time. A home ownership housing needs to at least allow for a person to live in it seven to ten years. And this is not going to be able, this is not a place where people are necessarily going to be able to do that. Thank you, bye bye. Good morning. My name is Doug Bacon, and I own four restaurants and pubs within a ten minute walk from this property. One of my locations, the White Horse Tavern, is Diagonal Day Across the Street from this location. It's a very important property, and I've been looking out on it for 19 years. It's dramatically underused when it was a rental truck business. It didn't belong on Brighton Avenue. It also represents a very important link between a section of Brighton Avenue to the east towards Kenmore Square that is almost all residential and to the west towards Brighton that is almost all commercial. This is a very, very important property. This project would bring life and activity and people and energy to this block, and it would be a very important asset to the neighborhood. Another point I just want to make is I have approximately 150 employees all who work in Austin and Brighton. And in the last few years I've seen a phenomena where almost ten years ago, almost all my employees lived in the neighborhood, and many of them walked to work. And I'm seeing this phenomena now where I'm talking about long-term employees who make good incomes, managers, chefs, bar tenders. These are not people who can't afford to live in decent housing, but the phenomena are getting priced out of the neighborhood and they're tired of living in sub-par quality housing. And they've told me we want to live in better housing and we are getting priced out of the neighborhood. We need this project, we need more housing, we need better housing. I hope you can support this project. Thank you. Again Mr. Biden, please keep the comments brief. Hi, my name is Scott Madelano. I'm here to represent the Austin Board of Trade. Our president, Anne Faldetta, couldn't make it. I'm a director of 12 years and past president for two. I live in Austin for the last 29 years of blocking a half from this particular building. The Board of Trade unanimously supports this project. We believe that it provides two of the things that our neighborhood needs the most. One is affordable housing, none of my employees and my business can afford to live in the neighborhood anymore. And Austin is also one of the lowest, if not the lowest, vacancy rates in the city and having nice new retail space is really important. The current property, the previous owners that have fallen to a terrible disrepair, everything from the building to the trucks lots of the drainage and everything. We see this as a vast improvement and a great addition to our neighborhood. The gentlemen who are building the building have been very involved with the neighborhood and the community holding even their own sessions to community meetings to have get more feedback, which they've incorporated in their plans. They work diligently, and tirelessly, and the Board of Trade unanimously supports it. And I've got a letter for you if I can present it to you. It's got all the signatories which are representing everyone from Gen Zine, New Balance, GBA, and on. Thank you. Hello, I'm Emma Walters, the executive director of Austin Village Main Street. I'm here to represent my Board of Directors. We unanimously support this project. And believe that this parcel of land, as it currently sits, is underutilized and ablated property in our district and has been for decades. We also believe that this development will add vibrancy to our business district and can handle density and a project of the size. We also believe that this section of our neighborhood needs, has much needed stability in the neighborhood and is in dire need of better housing stock and resident retention. We also believe that even properties has set a high precedent for community and developer relationships by engaging residents in the process from the beginning and continuing to make changes that are reflected to community needs and feedback. We also look forward to having new commercial space in our district and look forward to working with the developers to make sure that those tenants that fill those space are a reflection are in neighborhood and add better retail mix to our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. We're starting to get repetition of the point's substance. So please, unless you have something new to say, just name it and address that. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton Austin and Permanent Association. We'd like to go and record and support with the changes to the project and the strong communities support in Austin. We support the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you for allowing residents the opportunity to speak on behalf of this project. My name is Jean Powers. I live nearby the site in Austin. I just wanted to say that I have been involved with the community process on this project from the start. I've watched the developers work with the community to make sure that this is a project that really suits our neighborhood and will enrich and improve it. And I hope that you'll consider approving it. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you for having me. My name is Gail and Moeke. I'd like to speak in favor of this project. I'm an Austin resident. I've been for about 14 years and lived in eight different apartments. Finally, I found an apartment that I like to live in. I'm a founder of Common Wheels, which is a 501-C3 charity organization that focuses on bicycle safety and bicycle improvements in Austin and Brighton. I've also been a member of the Boston Bikes Advisory Group here at Seahaw since 2008, since the founding of it under Nicole Friedman. So I understand that there are many challenges to the streets. And I believe that the parking ratio is appropriate for the neighborhood, especially I have lived on Ashford Street. I have lived on Gardner Street. I understand the nature of these blocks. I think we do need more apartment buildings so that we can free up some of the Victorian single and double family homes for home ownership. I would love to own a home in my neighborhood that I've lived through for 14 years. But it's very hard to find appropriate stock. I would also like to speak on the setbacks. Currently, as it exists in the drawings, Brighton Avenue side feels more like a city. The London Street side feels more like apartments and the Gardner Street side feels much more like in line with the nature of the neighborhood, which is smaller, three-story apartments. Based off the setbacks, it will look very in keeping with the neighborhood. This is almost three different facades to a single building. So I like to say that I love that neighborhood. I've lived there for 14 years and I think this will fit in. I also do want to say that the IAG, which I'm a member of as well, was made up of residents, business owners, low-income housing advocates, and others, and me, unanimous to be supported this project. And now that we've come back and there's a revised project, we do think the project is better than it was last year, but we are also unanimously in support of this project as well. Thank you so much for the time. My name is Perry Wasper. I live at a three-kimbridge terrace in Olsen. Just three quick points, number one, that develop various throughout the process of the extremely engaged community I've been involved since the beginning. Number two, I'm a renter in Olsen. As well, I've been there for four years. We need more affordable housing, more supply in the market, tell all of us. And number three, I'm a director of sales and marketing for a startup in Olsen. We're constantly looking to hire and having good housing stock in the area that especially allows for people to live and walk to work is really helpful. Makes it much better for us to hire. Thank you. Thank you. Everyone here to speak in opposition. My name is Paul Berkeley. I live at 44 Oldie Street in Olsen. And I'm president of the Olsen Civic Association. This project went before us last Wednesday. And we did vote to oppose it, but in fairness to the applicant, into all these people that showed up today, it was a fairly balanced discussion. And as you heard this morning, most of the people that spoke in support of this, spoke to the goals that Noah outlined when he presented this to us last week. He talked about improving pedestrian movement, limiting cars to neighborhood streets, captivating retail, new housing opportunities, and relocating attractiveness. Those that spoke in opposition to this had no problem with these goals. They spoke to the building dimension aspect of this, the metrics, if you will. We have a zoning code that we spent six years working on with the DRA and the Transportation Department to come up with some rules or regulations that would dictate where development should fall. Obviously, the very existence of your board deals with exceptions to that. This project went to Article 80 because of its size. Article 80 has no metrics. The Boston Planning and Development Agency has no plan, at least for this area. So in the absence of a plan or metrics, what does a community do when they feel like a project is too big? Well, they point out the violations and the fact that even though this developer required four properties, he still can't meet the setback requirement. They pointed out that in a zone that calls for three stories, this is six stories. In an area where there's no parking anywhere, they pointed out that the number of spaces not only seemed to be low, but they're in tandem also. And they questioned how does that work and the answer is, well, this is an urban environment. People are used to knocking on doors and asking people to move their cars. And thinking about what Article 80 is supposed to do, I went to the BBA website and looked up Article 80. In the very first section, Article 80-1, it says that it's supposed to encourage development that is in harmony with its surroundings and to ensure that new development is concatible with the existing traditional scale and character of Boston. Well, this section of Boston does not have a development anywhere near the size of this in that location. So the neighborhood felt that the goals that he wanted to achieve could still be achieved, but they asked for more respect to the code that governs this and to the kinds of things that make an okay project a good one and a good one a great one. Thank you. Hi, my name is Eva Webster. I have lived in Austin, Brighton for over 25 years. I'm here on behalf of two entities. One is a batter who testified a year ago about this project and opposition, but he's out of the country and he just learned about it that the project would be heard today and he called me from Europe and begged me to come and declared his opposition. His name is Eric Porter. He lives in London, the same street where this project is proposed. And I'm here also in my capacity as a culture of homeowners union of Austin, Brighton. I would like the board to know that there was real, real outrage in the neighborhood with respect to declining, plummeting, owner occupancy in Austin, Brighton. When I first moved to Austin, Brighton, our owner occupancy was 25%. Right now, it's 15%. And I base this number on the data that I got from the BPDA website. We analyzed the census data that's available that's two years old, but in the last two years we analyzed all the projects that were rental cash cows that were approved in Austin, Brighton. And I'm convinced that it's 15% right now. In Austin, the owner occupancy rate is 8%. I think that this is outrageous and not to pay any attention to what is unconscionable. And there was a time when I was coming to this board 20 years ago and I gave up because I wasn't sure if the board was being objective. But then a year ago, I saw the recording of this hearing when this project was turned down and I started jumping up in front of my TV because I felt things have changed. There is objectivity. These people understand we are not opposed to a project on this parcel. The car rental side can go, there can be housing there. And I agree that new housing is a good thing. But it doesn't mean that it has to be 129 unit project that spans from Brighton Avenue all the way to Garden Street. A very, very long block, extremely wide on Brighton Avenue. It will look like a fortress. It would be just this viable project if it was just 80 units. And the other very important thing, a point that I want to make. We hear in the club on TV everywhere that Mayor Walsh is troubled by increasing wealth disparities. That there are the heads, investors, people who get richer and richer. And the regular people in Boston who cannot really get ahead, they don't have enough money to retire. They would perish just living under social security. Let me make this point. The reason for it is because we allow two young guys to create generational wealth for themselves on the back of Austin renters. If they build a condo building, even if that location doesn't lend itself to long-term owner occupancy, it could become investor condo units. And they would end up being short-term rentals, just like those guys want to. But at least 100 people would own a condo that would supplement the retirement income. And we would have regular people getting well off on this pool, not only the people who are well connected, who are sons of developers. And when the presenter for the development said that they pushed the building 10 feet off, they didn't push it off from the sidewalk. They put the, he's saying about the 10 feet pushing it back 10 feet from the curb. There's no room there to plant the trees. There will be that people won't be seeing any greenery. I think we understand you. Look, we need to have respect for other people here. You can't dominate the I know, but the other people were speaking for a long time too. A year ago, a year ago, a year ago. You're being serious. Thank you very much for your comments. They're very well taken. Okay. What's the pleasure of the board? Make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. I second that and would like to impose the proviso that no take out be part of this decision. I'll adopt that. Okay, so this motion with an amendment that's been accepted as their second. Second. I think so. Okay, all those in favor? Aye. All opposed? Motion passes. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's now 10-33. I'm going to call it. There are any deferrals or withdrawals for 10-30. Okay. Call the next case. Following the L8. 696-981-317 Belgrade Avenue. Is Belgrade Avenue here? Would you please take out your comments outside please so we can get to the next case. Thank you. This is the demo of the existing one-story commercial structure, erect a four-story structure to a house retail and parking on the ground floor and 21 residential units on floors two to four. The violation to Article 67 Section 12. The floor day ratio is excessive. Article 67 Section 12. The height is excessive 35 feet is allowed only. Article 67 Section 12. The height is excessive three stories max allowed. Article 67 Section 12. Required front-and-out setback is insufficient on the Belgrade abseye. Article 67 Section 12. The required front-and-out setback on the cross, the fact that the street side is insufficient. Article 67 Section 12. The required rear-yard setback is insufficient. And Article 68 Section 33. Our street parking requirement is insufficient. Name and address to the record please. Which of the vocal and non-subdued carcatex? Just want to give a brief presentation. During the best cloth months, we ask for just one second. Can we take our conversations outside the hall please? During the best cloth months, we had attended several neighborhood meetings prior to the allegory process and during the allegory process. We met and discussed the concerns of the neighbors as well as we see some... Excuse me, sir. Can you please address the... Please first tell us briefly what you're proposing. And tell us about your zoning violations. We will rely on the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services to get to us about the community process. We are proposing 23 underground parking spaces. Retail on the first floor with the vertical circulation for the apartments. And 21 apartment units on floors 23 and 4. The units breakdown is 18 to bedrooms around 158 square feet and three bedrooms about 800 square feet. The parking violations, we started the process with... We are proposing 12 parking on ground parking spaces. We increased that to 24 parking spaces. We also... Building is also located within 200 feet of the Bellevue Commuter Rail Station as well as of Bellevue there which is about five different bus lines of service. Bellevue there in here. So is that... Is an ideal development for... Smart growth. The height we proposed the height at the beginning was 46 feet 10 inches. We reduced to 42 feet which is 10 feet... I mean 10 inches shorter than the parapet of the adjacent property, residential property. So it'll be a unit... I'll be a little bit shorter than the residential building which is nearby. Is that that condo building that on the other side past times? It's on the same side but it's on... It's closer to the Howard Chevrolet project. The floor area ratio, there are several issues with the site. One of them is the shape and the size of the lot which is hard to deal with which raises the construction cost. They also had the building was used for full service cleaners and there's a lot of contamination heard which also causes some financial hardship in removing the soils and the different materials were contaminated. The setbacks we are maintaining the exact setback of the existing building and also adjacent to this the... When I'm trying to say we continue the street line of Bill Gray there. The same size, same alignment as the building on the right side, the same alignment as building across to McGross Street as well as the residential building that we mentioned. The rear setback, the site is next to in the back of the site, there's a bigger factory. It was very hard to negotiate the rear setback to that because it's a sheer easement in the back so basically stay within that easement. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Dan Murphy from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services, I'd like to go on record support with just condition to hike and form during design review to the pre-existing three families that line Bill Gray at F. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Waltrap, White, Counselor, Tim McPathie's office, we'd also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Phil Cohen from the VPDA would like to go on record and support our board approved it every once in a while. We get an easy project, we had one community meeting, everyone is very supportive of this project that we contacted. Thank you. Anybody here who's speaking opposition? Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the board. Motion for approval continuing VPDA design review. Second. And, Ms. Annie, will you take in also the fact that the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services requested that the height reflect that of the three families in proximity? Yes, that will be included with that in the process. That's a motion with the amendment. Second on that. All of the favor. All right. All opposed? Motion for approval. Thank you. Following next, case calling, BOA 670376 1522 VFW Parkway. This is a change auction in existing office space into a residential unit. Violations, Article 9, Section 1. The MFR and CC1F sub district, Article 12, Section 1, lots and two districts, name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm Mr. Boa. My name is James Christopher. I'm RCALC with the business address of 415 to Ponset Avenue, Doreshesta, with Project Architects. I'm joined by Jeff Roach, the owner of the property. This property was before the board several years ago as it needed zoning relief to be constructed. At this time, there was an existing office space on the interior of the building that is not used. So Mr. Roach would like to change that use into a unit and make that unused space usable for the building. We had in a butter's meeting and presented in the civil group, there's no opposition, there's no change to the exterior of the building, the only zoning relief would be the extension of the non-conforming use. There is an exact thing on the LES company. Across from the trailer park. I'm sorry. Across from the trailer park, Madam Chair. About how are the drawings? The drawings are out of the picture. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Officer of Neighborhood Services, and behalf of Jack Dougan, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, the University of Council of Large Medical Flare, Council to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Chair and Murphy from Council of Manomaly's Office. Councilor, I'd like to go on record and support this project. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? And is Paul Faraza, I support that. Here's support. Yes. Well, looks for the record, what's your address? 15, 15, V, N, W, Parkway, West Farcroy. Thank you. Is there anybody here who's speaking opposition? Pleasure to report. Paul Shet for approval, continuing VBBA design review. Second. A little favor. Bye. All the way to the board. Thank you, time. Call the next case. Call the BOA 699-598-289-Wakill Street. This is the raised existing structures combining lots of 283-Wakill, 289-Wakill, 574-Cantaberry, and 576-Cantaberry, 578-Cantaberry Street. Into one lot to be known as 289-Wakill Street with 83,631 square feet of total lot of area. And erect a new four-story multi-family residential dwelling with one level or below grade parking. The low grade parking will provide 147 parking spaces below grade and 19 spaces at grade. The proposed building will include 106 dwelling units with common areas and support spaces. The violations of Article 29, Section 4. G-Prod Apple Capability due to an erecting buildings having a total gross floor area in the excess of 5,000 square feet. Article 67, Section 32, insufficient off-street loading. Article 67, Section 32, insufficient off-street parking. Article 67, Section 8, the residential uses on the first story as a conditional use. Article 67, Section 12, the insufficient rail yard. Article 67, Section 12, the excessive floor area ratio. And Article 67, Section 12, the excessive building height. Name and address for the record please. Morning Chair and Members. My name is George Moranci. I'm the attorney with the Business Address of 350 West Broadway in Salt Boston. I'm joined by Tom D'Alsavio of the Hembarque studio, the project architect. Chair and Members, this is an article 80 large project that was approved by the Beary Board of Directors on May 11th. The Beary Board approved a revised set of drawings, which are the drawings that have been submitted to the Board today, these drawings submit a project that has changed during the community process. And it is now a project which contemplates 106 residential units, apartments of which 12 would be affordable, served by 126 underground and surface parking spaces. The project, known as the Wachill Residences, is located at 289 Wachill Street in Roslandale. The site is made up of four parcels that are being consolidated to aggregated to a single log consisting of approximately 87,631 square feet. The site runs along Wachill Street between Cantiburi Street and American Legion Highway. The zoning sub district is community commercial under Article 67, the Roslandale neighborhood article. The site is currently occupied by a number of floral shops which primarily serve the three areas, cemetery St. Michael's Forest Hills and Mount Hope. There's also a restaurant and a residential building dwelling building on the Cantiburi Street side of the site. I think it's important to note that the Cantiburi Brook occupies an easement that extends along the eastern edge of the site adjacent to American Legion Highway. And the project actually takes a great care to include an upgrading of this very important neighborhood open space area, including the removal of invasive species and creating a passive open space use in the setback area adjacent to the development that will be for the benefit and use not only of residents of the new building but for the neighborhood in general. As I mentioned, the project has been reduced from its initially proposed 136 units. There was a 167,000 square foot concept plan that was introduced in the community in January of 2016. The square footage of the building has been reduced by almost 50,000 square feet during community process to just over 118,000 square feet now representing a cut of approximately one third of the initially proposed density and a reduction as I mentioned in 30 units still served the 160 units as still being served by 122 underground and surface parking spaces which yields a unit to parking or parking to unit ratio of 1.2. Code requirement is 1.5. Of course, as an article lady, large project actual Austrian parking requirements are set by the BRA, the BPDDA during the large project review process. The original building has been reduced in height in response to concerns during the community process. What was originally proposed as a building that buried between four and five stories is now a building that has been reduced by one full floor to a maximum of four stores. Setbacks have been introduced especially along the the walk hill street side of the site where the setback was increased from five feet to 19 feet and corner height of three stories along walk hill further reducing the massing in the sense of that building is massing along the walk hill side of the site. Traffic mitigation is something that came up during community process again and again and the developers have committed to a traffic mitigation plan that includes pedestrian improvements at the adjacent intersections, modified signal timing at the American Legion Highway walk hill intersection and also looking at the creation of a shuttle bus from the site to the Forest Hills cheese station and that would be a shuttle bus again not merely for residents of the building but for the neighborhood in general and the developers committed to continuing to work with the BPDDA and the Boston Transportation Department. In terms of benefits to the community there is initially of course the creation of 12 IDP units and something which is a little bit different with this project is that there's also going to be a payment of $410,000 to the IDP fund and that money is going to be managed by DND and initially targeted at home ownership projects in the Rosalindale and Madapetian communities and the effort is going to be and the intention is that this money would be used through the office of DND to create housing for people in this affordable housing for people in this neighborhood. In terms of the traffic mitigation measures because traffic again was a recurrent issue during community process my clients having committed to public way improvements including reconstruction of the section of walk hill and canterbury streets and accordance with the the sidewalk and accordance with the city's completes streets program. Signal timing of the intersections in the area which are currently operating at deficient levels of surface service. Onside amenities at the project including bike storage space and investigation of opportunities for zip car parking and other ride share alternatives and the shuttle service that I mentioned earlier. Restriping of the dedicated bike lane along walk hill street and also a $50,000 contribution to neighborhood safe streets or similar traffic calming public safety program and finally support for neighborhood traffic planning and capital improvements working with the city which is our belief is undertaking to conduct a traffic study to determine what additional measures might be taken to improve traffic conditions in the neighborhood. Mr. Miley can you give us a unit breakdown and the sizes of the units? Yes I'll ask a raw bill salibio to do that raw. Sure so there are 160 total units in the project there are 59 one-bedroom units. It was approximate size about 750 square feet. There are 43 two-bedroom units the size of those about 1065 so and then there are four three-bedroom units that are approximately 1200 square feet. And of the 106 I believe Mr. Maranth you said that I didn't write that would have the number of affordable units. At 12 affordables Mr. Erleck and the $410,000 contribution. All of the 160 not make the 13% right and that's why the $410,000 is a monetary equivalent of two units. The thought being that those that that will that's money that's going to DND administrative programs to create whole ownership opportunities aside from the 12 rentals that our IDP units. I didn't see by the way in the packet there's that I didn't see comments and the BPM did let through our lady to be. It did go through our committee and it received its approvals on May 11th we stand in strong. How's the drawing just Ms. Ani? Drums are adequate. Okay there's more any other questions to the board? I'm just going to comment that I thought that that part of the community was more family oriented. That's why I'm a little surprised at the small number of three bedrooms. But let's just my opinion. Of course yes on the traffic the entry and egress point of where this complex is going to be on Canterbury. That's correct. So how what was the thinking coming off of Canterbury on to walk hill and it's an impact factor there? Well we did study that we actually initially started with an exit and entry point off of walk hill and that got raised a lot of concern pretty quickly even with PTT so everything was relegated coming off of Canterbury to see another option to get in and off to the site. Yes so Canterbury left or right on to Canterbury and then you can make a right or left on to walk hill. Everyone here is speaking favor of the project. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Dan Murphy from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. After a lengthy and thorough community process the area concerns primary focus on traffic mitigation, parking, green space preservation, public transportation, home ownership, density and height. This process also included a strong community opposition to the as a right aspect to this development of 75 units with the commercial sub-level element element. So at this point the Mayor's Office feels that a reasonable balance has been between the development and the community with regard to the aforementioned concerns so long as the promises made during this outreach process are kept. These include contributions to the neighborhoods affordable housing, the slow streets and the structural needs in addition to public accessibility to their onsite green space, inclusion of complete streets compliance and access to private the private public community shuttle. It's also recommended that the Canterbury Street Street Setback and Hight Barriers as I revisit it during design review. Are those items that you just mentioned part of the discussion with the DPP? Yes they mentioned they touched upon all those during their explanation. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, on behalf of the City Council of Elijah Michael Plierty. The Council recognizes the ongoing community concerns but like to commend the proponent for working with the community in the community outreach efforts thus at this particular point the Council like to go on record and support. Yes Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Richard Heath. I live at 42 Born Street to make a plain not far from this project. I was a member of the IAG. This is one of the most successful IAGs that I ever participated in. Considerable respect and consideration was afforded by the developer which I really appreciate. The units have been reduced 30% considerable reduction in the number of units. Reduction in the massing in the size on walk hill street, setbacks on the sidewalk on walk hill street, setbacks on the upper stories and finally the two other points I think. The concession made to the housing trust fund is very rarely unusual to take funds and put it into the housing trust fund and an offsite home ownership program through D&D. I thought was very generous for unusual and commendable. I also respect the fact that this change of condo to rental. I think for two reasons. One in my neighborhood there's not a lot of rental there. I think the transition from rental to home ownership is significant. I was 45 when I bought my first house. It took me over 25 years. I think that speaks a lot for the neighborhood needs. I appreciate very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board of the bill Cohen from the VPDA. Our board like to commend the development team for a robust and responsive community process. We had six meetings which is definitely a lot and there were many changes made. I have a list but I don't want to reiterate it since most of them have already been said. We also worked really closely with the state representative before we let our support for this project. Thank you. Thank you. It's a chair of members of the board of minor paris, who are present in the carpenter's studio. On behalf of the congress of members, then they won't work for us to do the boss who would like to go and replicate our support. Thank you. No one here to speak in opposition. We'll line up at the podium. Good morning, Chair and good morning board members. I'm the district Councillor for this area and I'm here to speak in opposition. I will tell you it was a difficult decision because this was a robust process involved seven community meetings, six meetings with the BPDA and I was involved with some of those meetings as well. A lot of concessions on behalf of the developer who maybe started off a little rocky but ultimately ended on some great community benefits. We did extensive outreach for this project and because the majority of the residents in the area posed this project, I frankly have to stand with them. I think one of the biggest concerns was obviously affordability and the number of units that are affordable. I think another concern had to do with the green way overlay protection and real concerns about whether or not this developer would honor those protections and then lastly transportation and traffic calming measures. I will say I can't put all that on the developer. I think we have to do a better job as a city when it comes to those issues but at the end of the day I have to say in an opposition to this project. Thank you, Chair and thank you board members. Thank you. I would just ask the council are talking about affordability, green way and transportation. I would ask the people not necessarily what people have said. Madame Chair, I couldn't hear you. I couldn't hear you. Okay, thank you. Madame Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, councilor and East Racerby Georgia's office, echo councilor Campbell sentiments and oppose this project. Thank you. Hi, my name is Ricky Otter. I'm a co-leader of the not-hope-cannabary neighborhood association. The represents neighborhood's middle section of the American Legion right where this site is, this building site. We've been at least six community meetings. Each one, there's been voice press opposition. The letters, all the letters are sent to the BPDA. On this project, 75% are an opposition, 18% support, 10 or neutral. Let's afford a one opposition on this. As I'm saying, American Legion is a parkway. It has green belt protection just like the J way or any other. There's supposed to be a green belt protection review because it's in that zone. One of the grinds that's been asked for, I believe, is to give rid of that overview. It would be a different set of eyes in a different department that would determine whether it's appropriate in greenway. The whole purpose of this, of that oversight of the green belt protection is to help maintain the looks of it. We have 100 trees on either side, having a large building sky up above the trees is not what we need on the parkway. One of the, we have four public transportation. Everyone in our neighborhood, either has one, two, maybe sometimes three cars, not everyone, but most everyone, a mile from here to the orange line. I don't think the off-sreet parking ratio is good enough. The neighboring streets are a problem with parking and traffic. What's going to happen is these neighbors are good for the residents will be parking on the street. I have submitted a report. I'm just kind of hitting the highlights on it. I hope you have time to look at it. We do recognize a hard work that the developer and his team put into this project. We do appreciate their attention restoring the open spaces in the Long Canabary Park and they're planned by the shuttle bus that may help. But we feel this height is still too high and the parking ratio is not good enough among other things. We're also again, but I do I think there may be a solution to this in my last point. The last report from the BPDA we finally found out that the owner of the land of these five parcels and owners is really a little less than two acres. 1.83 usable is asking for $7 million dollars. $7 million dollars. It's assessed at maybe with the buildings at 2.3. The land less than a million. I did some little study. I think the market value is maybe two and a half million. So developer comes to us and he says I can't make it smaller. The numbers don't work. Well, no wonder he's got $7 million to pay off on the land. And the only reason that will possibly happen is if you overlook all these violations, that's the only way this guy's going to get $7 million. If it gets his $3 million, maybe it'll have to be smaller. I think that's an important point. Okay, thank you. Again, we've heard about the height, about the affordability, about the greenway protection, transportation, parking. So just ask unless you have something new to say this is the name of the office and the right-hand office. Well, my name is Faith Gurdler and I live at 73-1 of the street, which is right down the street towards the Hyde Park End. I just yeah, I have to say I'm definitely opposing this measure because to quote the poet Joyce Kilmer, I'm sure I'll never see a condo park as lovely as a tree. And I just hate the thought, this is going to be like this massive fortress in a really residential area of two stories. And I'm not opposed to condos or apartments there. I'm just opposed to the height. The height is what really horrifies me. And there's a reason we live there. We live there because it's low scale. And just to see something this massive, like a fortress looming where there was, you know, trees and parks and one family houses, and you know, that's why I'm just totally opposed. And I also have to say that getting from there to forest hills, it is not a walking distance. It is not. And that's why it keeps saying, oh, you know, it'll be okay because we have the shell of us. No, it's just going to be a monstrosity. Okay. Thank you. My name is Craig Panzer. I'm a resident at 18 Woodborne Road, closer to forest hills in this development. And I wanted to be eyes on the ground to underscore that it is not walkable. I do cycle. I'm a minority of eight residents, my neighbors, that are closer in adjacent to walk Hill Street. Only one other neighbor rides the train. All others drive, especially in the winter. It is not safe on sidewalks and people think that I'm crazy for cycling. Good morning. My name is Eugene Williams. I live a 26-month-old Calvary Road. I've been living in this Rosalindale area for the past 22 years. I want, I'm not going to be repeating the points that have been made before. I'm here to say I do not support this project. And one of my main concerns is the incompatibility of such a structure with a neighborhood as the one that we live in. It's an established residential neighborhood consisting mainly of working-class residents. So in this neighborhood you find triple decars, you find tongue houses, you find single, family houses. And when we have a structure that comes and imposes its presence, it's requesting a variance of 20.5 feet higher than the existing buildings. It causes us, the regular working class people who live in the neighborhood, it causes us concern. So based on the points that have been made before, which I really don't want to repeat, and based on the fact that the regulations have stated that provide vision and clear guidance for neighborhoods like us to protect neighborhoods from imposing structure. And I caught from part C of that regulation with says that the design of any structure must be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. This design in its present form is not compatible with our neighborhood, will not enhance our neighborhood. Therefore I do not support it. Thank you very much. Mr. Marancy, could you speak to the issue of the green belt protection and what applications exist? As part of the project, Mr. Erlich, there is a large setback on the American Legion Highway side. As I mentioned at the top of my presentation, the American Legion side of the property is where the Canterbury Brook lies. Not only have my clients from the beginning agreed to a large, maintain a large open space area there along that easement, but have actually committed to making improvements to the Canterbury Brook removal of a base of species creating passive open space again, not simply toward the residents of the building but for the neighborhood. So there is a great deal of passive open space evidenced on the site plan that is part of the project. On the new season of transportation again, I would point out that there are more parking spaces than proposed rental units here. 106 spaces for the 106 approved units. Nonetheless, my clients are still providing, as is required under a large project review for ample bicycle storage at the property and the commitment to working with the city to implement a shuttle to forest hills. So it's not as if everybody would be relying on the shuttle. It's not as if everybody would be relying on private motor vehicles, but the combination of a 1.2 parking ratio, the creation of a shuttle and the availability of alternative modes of transportation, we're confident of more than satisfy what the transportation needs of residents of this building would be. Motion for approval continue to be our second bill. Second bill. I'll look, I'll look at the member. Aye. I'll move. Motion carried. Thank you. Well in the next case, calling B-O-A, 688-874-7-11-Belina Place. This is to construct three residential townhouse units with three bedrooms and one and a half baths in each. The building will be two and a half stories tall with two garage parking spaces and one exterior off street space. The building will be a wood-frained building. The violations article 60 section nine, insufficient additional lot area for dwelling unit, article 60 section nine, the roof over the front porch, and Bay windows creates an insufficient front yard setback. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Bob Fitzgerald, attorney for the applicant. Goodwin Proctor, 100 Northern Avenue in Boston. In September last year, the Department of Neighborhood Development designated habitat for humanity as the developer for this site to develop three units of housing. We are requesting two items of relief. The first is for a relief from the minimum lot size requirement of just 25 square feet. That relief will allow third unit of housing to be developed on the site. The second is for some minor protrusions into the front yard to accommodate a roof overhang and some bay windows. The project has been received quite favorably by the community. There are letters of support on record with the board and I have some copies of those to be provided as well. The last item I have is just a copy of a certified and stamped copy of the plot plan that I'd like to put in for the record. I'm here with George O'Malley, the senior project director for habitat as well as Laura Moe, this CEO for habitat at greater Boston. We'd be happy to answer any questions you may have about the project. I have questions in the board. Anyone here to speak in favor of the project? Madam Chair, members of the board. Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andrea Campbell's office. We like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board. All solid. I'll go to the council. I have a large micolpherty. Council is going to record and support. Come on, members of the board. George Mayer's office and the board services. I'd like to go on record and support. The civic association, Caden and Square-Nable Council, is in support of this project. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Peter Skerper, and I'm the carpenter. I'm the president of the board. I'm the president of the board. I'm the president of the board. Madam Chair, members of the board. Christopher Rooney, the department of neighborhood development. Dean Dede would like to go on record and support the project. Madam Chair, I want to hear to speak in opposition. Let's flag for the board. The motion to approve with continued PEPA. Continue PEPA. Desire. Second. Second. All of the better. Aye. All opposed. Opposed to the grant. We're going to request the report. We're going to request five minute recess. We're going to really keep it to five minutes. We will be convened at 11.50. The following next case. The following, DLA 694278246 NOLL Street. This is new construction of a six-family residential building located at two-party six NOLL street doorchester. Violation is Article 65 Section 8. A multi-family dwelling is forbidden in the three F-600 sub-district. Article 65 Section 41 is sufficient number of live street parking spaces. Article 65 Section 42.2. The front setback must be conforming to the existing building alignment. Article 65 Section 9. A lot of areas are insufficient. Article 65 Section 9. The floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9. Useable open spaces are insufficient. And Article 65 Section 9. The number of stories is excessive. Aiman Adjust will directly please. Travis Lee, 60 Ocean Street doorchester. Can you tell us about the project please? Yes. Good morning, members of the board. I'm joined today by legal counsel from Klein Hornig and our designers from Place Taylor Architects. Here to propose a new construction six-family building on NOLL street in doorchester just about a five-minute walk west of Codman Square. About a block and a half from the commuter rail, Talbot station, train station. The 16th will all be two bedrooms, approximately 750, 760 square feet each. And we have spent about eight months working with the community have been to over six civic group meetings and have worked very closely to come up with a project that folks are very excited about. In the neighborhood, the elected officials are in strong support and the mayor's office is in strong support. We are committed in this project to very high energy efficiencies and sustainable design as well as rents that are 80 to 85 percent of market rents. So we call this workforce housing, mass housing, the lender has a fantastic workforce housing loan fund that we'll be using to restrict the rents on these units in perpetuity. So like now I'd like to hand it over to Jacob Taylor to work through the variances. So a little bit about the relief that we're requesting. This is a three F6000 sub district in the doorchester neighborhood district. We're requesting relief from Article 65 Section 8 to allow for multi-family dwelling use. As Travis mentioned, the proposed project will include six workforce housing units. The design is a side-by-side six unit structure that will make the project financially viable and allow for the maximization of open space while also enabling the energy efficiency and sustainability design elements. As the architectural team will discuss, they've incorporated a number of design elements to ensure that the project will be consistent with the scale and character of the existing structures in the neighborhood. We're also requesting relief from 65-41 for off-street parking. The zoning code would require 1.25 cars per unit and we're proposing six spaces so that will be one parking space per unit. And we believe that that is sufficient given the affordable nature of the project, the unit sizes and the proximity to public transportation. We're also requesting relief from 65-42.2 with respect to setback. The proposed setback for the project is 15 feet. We meet the setback requirement in table C but we are requesting relief from the modal setback requirements. The setback of the various structures on this site, sorry, on this block, varies quite a bit. The setback that we're proposing is actually consistent with the closest structures on that side of the street but we do still require relief from that requirement. And if you look at the second page of the permit set that was submitted, you can see in the bottom left a diagram that shows the setback of the various structures on the street. We're also requesting relief from 65-9 with respect to lot area. We're proposing a lot area of 7,034 square feet. The lot in question is considerably larger than many of the other lots in Norwell Street and we believe that the proposed project would be in line with the density of most of the structures on that street. We're requesting relief from 65-9 for floor area ratio. We're proposing a floor area ratio of .83. That's higher than the FAR required by the code which is .4. However, the density is needed in order to make the construction of the project as work force housing viable and the level of density is similar to the existing buildings on the street. The existing buildings vary in FAR from about .3 to about 1.45. So we're just sort of in the middle of the road in terms of density. We're also requesting relief with respect to 65-9 for usable open space. We're proposing about 1,840 square feet of usable open space. The design is a six unit side by side building. It was intended to maximize the amount of usable open space. We're incorporating a number of architectural approaches to incorporate light channels and incorporate other elements to maximize late exposure and reduce the perceived density of the project. Finally, we're requesting relief from 65-9 with respect to a number of stories. The proposed project is 35 feet tall and three stories tall with a flat roof. So it complies with the height limitation in the code but the code limits the number of stories at 2.5. So we would be at three which is consistent with the surrounding structures which are mostly two or three stories, mostly three story buildings with both pitch roof and dormers and some flat roof triple deckers. So to summarize, we have one question. What's this project before us this board in the recent past? It was before the board last year in, oh no, 8 or 7, 8, 9, 10 months ago. How has it changed from that proposal? It has changed significantly so the first proposal was two separate buildings, each building containing two units. So total of four units and two completely separate buildings and now we have one structure at six units. So you've actually increased the density under this proposal. We have more bedroom, I'm sorry we have more units but we have the same number of bedrooms and the same amount of square foot building square footage. It's not a smaller total amount of building square footage. So the two bedrooms were 760 square feet each? The two bedrooms were 760 square feet each, yes that's right. Anyone here to speak any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Officer of the Neighborhood Services, on behalf of Flavio DeVega, we'd like to unrecord and strong support this project will help advance workforce housing goals. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andre Cambles, office, we'd also like to go on record and support. We've heard a lot of support from the neighbors for this project. Hello, my name is Debbie Weathers, I live at 255 Novel Street almost across from where he's built in the structure. Now I'd like to say that I've been here over 40 years and a lot has been totally vacant. He came into community, he spoke with the residents about building this, he met with us several times, he's made adjustments and I am definitely for the project because that lot really needs to be filled in and it's you know it just really needs to be done and he's really supported the community, come to all our meetings and spoke with us trying to do this and I really agree with the project. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Luquisa Burke and I'm the president of the Wild Coalition, representing streets Novel, Spencer Park, Dane Millett and Atomall Streets and Travis has been coming to our community meetings and presenting his idea to us and we are in support of his idea. We do like the fact that he's coming in trying to beautify the neighborhood bringing in a new unit. He is willing to offer affordable housing on some of the units which we really did appreciate the fact that he's able to come in and offer these things right across the street from the community rail. We've been really grateful to work with Travis and the fact that Travis has been very transparent with us and also been able to answer any questions that we have had going back and forth and making adjustments to kind of work with the community. We really appreciate him and we are in support of this project and we would like for him to bring this project to our neighborhood. Thank you. Members of the board, my name is Karim Lindsay. I am a resident on Novel Street as well as a member of the West of Washington Coalition. From the beginning, Mr. Lee has met with us. He has shown us any proposals he's had. He has been willing to listen to all the residents of the neighborhood, of the community, of any concerns that we have and our approvals, a disapproval and have been willing to work with us at every point of it. We definitely support and agree with everything that he has proposed to us. He has consistently been in communication with us to see if there had been any opposition to anything and I can definitely say as a developer, it is something that is rare that someone listens to the voices of the community and is willing to work with us and for those reasons as well as his effort to put in our street park in which is a big issue along Novel Street and with the near area, we support him fully. Make sure that in design review it reflects the articulation of the buildings surrounding it. Following the next case, call the BOA 695-067-21 to 21C Chickatobits Street. There's also a companion case, BOA 695-072-23 Chickatobits Street. This is to combine POSL and existing three-family with POSL of 14,560 square feet, with POSL of 7,298 square feet, total of 21,888 square feet and subdivided to a lot known as 21,281 B and 21C Chickatobits Street. This will consist of a four-unit building. This is for our 23 Chickatobits. This is to combine POSLs with a total of 21,888 square feet and subdivided 14,830 for 21 Chickatobits and 23 Chickatobits for 7,328 square feet. The existing building is an existing three-family and will become a two-family. The violation of the articulation of POSL is 65, section 41. Pocchio location must be on the same lot line. Article 65, section 9, excessive FAR. Article 66, section 9, excessive number of stories. I think I called the violations on that one. Sorry, I'm going to go back and just call the violations on 21,26. The violation for 21, 21C Chickatobits, the articulation of the 65, section 65-41.4. Pocchio location must be located on the same lot that the parking is serving. Access is by a separate lot. Article 65, section 8, four families of the business and two F6000 sub-district. Article 65, section 9, insufficient minimum lot frontage. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, my name is Chair and I'm the board. My name is Patrick Mahoney. I'm from Ames and Marancy. I'm covering today my colleague John Paul Gini of Paul Gini in Norton and with me is the developer Ted Ahern and owner and developer of Chickatobits Street. Certainly addressing both projects together it is two separate lots on 23 Chickatobits and is behind it has been identified as 21. A lot of being combined and then subdivided again the existing building that you see on the easiest plan I think is AB 1.0 and it's an existing three family building which will be converted to a two family dwelling each three bedrooms approximately 2200 square foot units and a lot will be then subdivided to be approximately 7400 square feet leaving a lot to the rear and side with frontage also on Chickatobits of approximately 1450 560 square feet and that would be four proposed townhouses with two parking spaces each three bedrooms approximately 1300 square feet and then in some is the two projects. The parking is located at the rear of the site all on the four unit townhouses there are eight spaces and two spaces off to the side. So and this is meeting the parking requirements for 21 and 23? It does yep that's correct. How will that look? It's to ensure that both parcels are taken here politically filed at the registered needs. Yes yes they will. And one of the conditional use violations for parking location I believe was related to the parking on the other site. At least for sale or? The Fassil. Yes. Um because I don't know how the drawings are adequate. For some reason I have more cover sheets all with 23. Is there actually cover sheets that must be one? No I apologize Mr. Bazzani one of all of the covers sheets are for 23. The information actually does is different and the plans for 21 are on the incorrect cover sheet. The same zoning and the outs for 21 is they're very similar. There are any other questions on the board? Do anyone here to speak and say with the project? Madam Chair, members of the board John Ellison mayors office of neighborhood services on behalf of Dave Cotter. We'd like to go and record and strong support. We understand this project has support from the civic association as well as the abutters and they are saving the facade of the historic building. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board Amanda Carly, Councillor Baker's office would like to go on our current support. Madam Chair, member of the board Karen Foley, and East Rassavi George's office. We echo the sentiments of the mayor and Councillor Baker's office in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board all Sullivan of the Office of the Council of the House of my Complarity Councilor Deol Rekit's support. Anyone here who's making opposition? What's the point for the board? Longing for approval, BPDA design. Exciting. A little favor? Aye. All opposed. All set. Thank you. I'm going to go back to 10-30 hearings. Have any deferrals or withdrawals for 10-30? I think we have 11-30. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 11-30? Address, please? Go up to the podium. Address? Address? 192 Belgrade Avenue. For the record calling, DOA658690192 Belgrade Avenue. Name an address to the record, please. You can stay up there. Yeah, you can. John D'Angeles, 172 Key to Edge Street, Boston. I'm looking for a referral or withdrawal. I was the furter. There was a question regarding the height of the... You're looking for a deferral. No. It's an appeal. It's an appeal. We're going to call those cases at 11-30. These are only deferrals or withdrawals. Okay. That... Address? 173 Indicott Street. Record calling, DOA666196173 Indicott Street. Name an address for the record, please. It seems Patrick Mahoney with a business address at 350 West Broadway of Adams and Marancy, along with Attorney Daniel Tuscano at 15 Broad Street. Requesting a deferral for 173 Indicott. And we would specifically like a date if approved after November 7th. Ideally the second hearing in November. Welcome to the reason of the deferral. We're very close to a design change that we believe would meet most of if not all of the neighbors' concern. And we thought it would best. And it was been suggested that it would be better for the last weekend hearing of November. This is now the second deferral. It's correct. The issue is are you any closer to getting resolution? Will you be any closer to getting everything we can add to the webinar? I believe we are. We're just undergoing one or two minor design changes to appease the... Okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Second. No, no, it's in favor. No, I hate it. I hate it. You've been saying this, but no, November 28th. It's perfect. Thank you. Okay. Perfect. Good. All right. Okay. Are there any other deferrals that withdrawals for 1130? Any ring number? Go back to the cases. Calling BOA 691-500-1493-1501-Dochester-Ravenew. This is changing from a retail store. I can see it's a HIsalon, I can see. The violation is identical to 65, section 15. HIsalon is a conditional use in a sub district. Okay. It was pretty straightforward. Yes. It's an address for the record please. It's had a herring 100-allistered Dochester's the mass. Okay. Any comments on it or... It's an existing retail space that we own the building and they just want to put a HIsalon in. It is... It was an empty retail store. I'm here. Is that any help with drawing? Roger. It's the other one here in speaking favor. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services and behalf of Club and we'd like to unrecord and support. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Sean Cheedham, Council Andre. Campbell's office, we'd also like to go unrecord and support. I'm here to speak in opposition. Just one question. Is other ratings on the front of this building? There is none. All right. Closing the board. The crew. Second. All the way to the board. Aye. Aye. All opposed. No, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Calling BOA 688 675 110 Lawnsdale Street. This is a new heating electrical work to be done on the first and second floor. Remove low bearing walls, new bathroom, new kitchens and extended living space into the basement. Violation is article 65, section 65-8, the floor to the area of fuel is excessive. Name an address for the record please. My name is Michelle Flowers and this is my husband, Christopher Mitchell, one ten, law's left three, the one chess the mass, 02124. You briefly described what your plans are. The proposal is to extend living into the basement so that me and my husband can have a room down there. Basically, we need this extra space because my eldest who is married is moving back home because she can't afford the rental and the master's degree fees that she has upon her and will let them stay there for a few years until they can afford their own home. Basically, I was born and raised in Dorchester all my life. I work for the city. I attend my community meetings regularly. I'm blessed to have the family growing and we cannot afford another home so we decided to do it. We can to utilize the home that we have. What is the height of the basement floor to see my- The basement was 70, I don't know exactly. It's on the plans, right? I have a little bit of space. Thank you. Yes, President, how was it growing? Prime private, is this a single family residence? No, it is actually a three family. Okay, one of the concerns is that the means of entrance to the basement is how? There are three means of eagresses. One of them will be an emergency window that they put in already. There's physicality in the family. Two ways. You can go up the stairs or you can go through the back with the utility room. Okay, where is the stair that is within your unit? Within the stair? In the whole of the unit? Yes, they put up a wall. There is. And that's the stair off the kitchen? Yes. Any other questions on the board? Anyone here who's speaking favor to the board? I have brought some on notices, actually. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, office of neighborhood services. On behalf of Dave Carter, we'd like to unregard in support. It's our understanding that does have support from the civic association. Madam Chair, members of the board, and me and the Carly, Councillor Baker's office, we'd like to unregard in support. Madam Chair, members of the board, all Sullivan, we have some concept of legitimate conflary. It's like you unregard in support. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? Any further questions on the board? I'd like to make a motion. I just would like one further point of part. Again, how many units are in this house? Three. I make a motion to grant the relief requested to extend into the basement. And also, I'd like to provide some on that this basement unit, space is never to be used as a separate unit. Has a catch on, because it does have some separate needs to be used. I do. All right, the most remaining second, all those favour? Aye. All opposed. They're all set. Thank you. All in VL8. 6-9-123-3-11-Galvan Boulevard. This is a constructing new three-family home on a sub-divided lot. The violation of the Article 65 Section 8, three-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65 Section 9, the Flood Air Ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9, the height is excessive. And Article 65 Section 9, the side yacht, is inefficient. Name and address, and the record, please. I need to see Patrick Mahoney with the business address at 350 West Broadway of Adam's Immorantium. I'm here with my client, Peter Levin, in an owner of 3-11-Galvan Boulevard. We do have some handouts. It could just be one second. Thank you. On a quick look at this ground. Pardon it. It's Miss Rillick, the proposed project, and I will make one quick note. It has changed as early as a few minutes ago, and I'll go through that in one second. It's the erection of a three-family dwelling with five parking spaces to the rear. The one of the pieces of zoning relief that we were seeking was a side yard violation, and the proposed side yard is shown in the plans as nine feet. And that is the change specifically that I'm talking about. It's been the whole building will remain the same size. It will be relocated or rather erected 10 feet from the neighbor to the left, which is the consistent. Thank you. From the neighbor or from the law line? The law line, Mr. Zahni. Thank you. Yep, 10 feet from maintaining a 10 foot side yard, and the developer has also agreed to remove a tree, erect a six foot white vinyl fence, all his own expense. The three units through the neighborhood process have been reduced from three bedrooms to two bedroom units. That was important to the neighborhood association, whose support we've received. So currently it's approximately a 1225 square foot, two bed, two bath unit. Each, all three of them are of the same. Is this currently vacant? It is. There's a garage on the line. All right, Mr. Zahni, how are the groin? You're in charge of the adequate. Any questions on the board? Can anyone here speak and favor the project? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors, opposite neighborhood services on behalf of Dave Carter. We'd like to unrecord and support this project does have support from the abouters in the civic association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Amanda Carly, Councillor Lee, because obviously we'd like to unrecord and support. The strong handicap access? It does. The drawing submitted. The full set of drawings should have a ramp. On the front, right? Anyone here who's speaking opposition? Any other questions on the board? Make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Second. I will be favor. Aye. On the post. All set. Thank you. Building VOA 667-468-35 Melbourne Street. Melbourne Street, yeah? Yes, that's me. On the page, yeah, I'm sorry. This is to remove roof and add a third floor addition and no change in occupancy to four families. Violation is Article 9, Section 1, extensive and on conforming use, and Article 65, Section 8. The MFIR is forbidden in a 3F sub district. Name and address for the record, please. Patrick Mahoney of M. Somerancey with a business address of 350 West Broadway. The proposed building is, as it stands, is an existing four family building. And with each of the bedrooms, I won bedroom units, and the proposal consists of adding a floor, still 10 feet below the allowed building height, but because it is a non-conforming use, and it is an extension of more than 25%, we were cited as a variant standard, as MFIR being not allowed. In essence, the first floor will stay the same. I didn't just hand some flyers out or excuse me out. The summary of the plans. And the top floor will become two two bedrooms, having living space on the first floor, kitchen and living room space, and then two bedrooms above. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors office, neighborhood services, on behalf of Dave Cotter, we'd like to honor record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andre, Campbell's office, we also like to honor record and support. Anyone here who speak off of the kitchen? What is the board? The proposed floor will continue to be the same. Second, a little bit better. I hope both of you, for all of the sudden. Calling BOA 685-030-51 Wilson Street. This is direct a three unit residential dwelling with three off three parking. The violations, Article 60, Section 40.1, conformity with the existing building alignment. Article 60, Section 9, a lot of areas insufficient. Article 60, additional lot, areas insufficient. Article 60, a lot of frontages insufficient. Article 60, a lot of width is insufficient. Article 60, floor the areas shows excessive. Article 60, Section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 60, Section 9, use the law open spaces insufficient. Article 60, Section 9, side yard is insufficient. And Article 60, Section 9, the ray yard is insufficient. Name and address of the record please. Good morning, Stuart Shrier, 1-005, Dorchester Avenue, and Dorchester. With me as Saivou, who is the owner of the property. Go ahead, Mr. Vowe has already built three new houses on the corner of Wilson Street and Verol Street. These were in fill where houses had been and houses were torn down. It's been quite a change for the street because a lot of the houses were in need of repair. His stepping in and building already three new houses in that area have spurred a lot of other people to step up and fix their homes up. He's building a traditional three-decker. It's just a reproduction of the three-deckers that were there before. Again, he built one at 51 Wilson. He built one at 39 Wilson. And he built one at 16 Verol. The call was change and some of the fit and finish change. But the designs are a traditional three-decker. With front and back couches, with ramps as necessary. He's doing the rental. They're rentals. And he's in the neighborhood and the people are happy that he manages his property very carefully. He's actively involved in the day-to-day management. These are 1,250 gross square feet. The apartments are just under 1,200 net square feet. They're free-vegium apartments. They're suitable for rentals in the neighborhood. They're family-oriented. I hear a lot sitting here today of 50 and 100 studio apartments. Studios are necessary for people starting out, single people. But there's not sufficient apartments for families. And this is what this is. This is a family housing. If you have any questions. Just try and have you seen the VRA recommendation? I have not. He certainly will conform with the building alignment. We do know that the violations exist. Oh, just talking about building alignment, I don't know how that became an issue. He's built three other houses and he's conformed with the building alignment. Yeah. You know, it was one of those things where we were the planner for George Huster wants everything to be lined up. Now, I know our recommendation is to not without prejudice, but that's something that we can work with, we've decided to review. So I'm not really holding a hard line on this recommendation. Dr. Arnequist. No one here has taken favor from us. Madam Chair and members of the Board, it's George and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go and record and support. There was a community process in it, it was well accepted among the neighborhood. In addition, the property owner owns other property in the neighborhood, and the abutters of those streets also have applauded his work, that he's done in keeping the fabric of the neighborhood and having these developments look like what's already in the neighborhood. In addition, in going out of his way to clean up during snow removal and just helping out throughout the neighborhood, we would like to go and support. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board of the Walter H. Way, District 5 City Council, Tim McRod, these office would also like to go and record and support. There were here in speaking opposition. Any questions in the Board? Washington, approval. The audience, nine seconds. Second. I'll look into the room. Aye. Aye. Calling B.O.A. 699-1907-47, follow the street. This is off-feed pocket for one residential vehicle. The violation is Article 10, Section 1. Proposed pocketing is within five feet of the side yard, lot line. Article 60, Section 9. Usable open spaces and sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Hi, good morning, Madam Chairmen and members of the Board. My name is Shirley A. Jones. Yes. Can you tell us what you're proposing? I'm proposing to complete the driveway. I got the approval and I wasn't under the understanding that I had to do it immediately at that time. The curve cut has been done. Okay, so the curve cut is that you're requesting approval. I'm sorry, that's already been done. Yes, and I've had prior approval already. I have those documents with me for prior approval. I looked like your approval was in 2000. Yes. And so you've waited until now to complete the project? That is correct. Okay. Okay, so you're coming to us because that approval is fired and you're looking better to see but the same. The approval for the same. Yes. And I wanted to make sure that I updated it and have everything correct. How did you want to do it, Madam Chair? They're confused because it has to be become fronk out of the parking. And the question really is what was approved? I can't believe that we approved the fronk out of the parking because the jury is no one, it's on the one top. The general not grant is on the list for a parking for one vehicle. Sorry. Do you have a copy of what was originally approved? I do. We have it. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes. And if I can say so please the parking will not be in the front yard, there will be sufficient space so the car can be moved down. It won't be near the curb cut, it won't be near the sidewalk at all. Is this the one or two family? It's a three family. It's a three family, darling. Yes. This is the only parking on site. Yes. How many cars are parked there now? None. But the driving curb got far in. Yes. So why is no car park? Because I didn't put the asphalt down. And again, I just wanted to make sure I was doing it, right? But again, it's clear that we approved something in 2000. So this is parking that is red brick that's right by the front stairs. We just want to make sure a red mulch that we are looking at the right building. You're looking in the right building, 47 fallistry, but I have enough space to move the car down. There's adequate space there. So it won't be near the door, it won't be near the sidewalk, it won't be near the curb cut. There's sufficient space there. On the left side of the house, we're looking at the house, you look at the left side of the right side. The right side. What kind of car is it, man? It's an Acura. It's an Acura. I know it did. Very small ride at my point, and then how you fit the vehicle in there unless you're on the sidewalk. No, it won't be on the sidewalk. What I did, Joe, I had someone to go out and do the measurements, the company that I wanted to hire, that I would like to hire to do it. So they went out and did the measurements. I have that with me. So I'm just curious, how did this come to ISE's attention and the hands? Oh, because I brought it back to the attention, because I finally wanted to put the asphalt down. And again, I just wanted to make sure that I was doing the right thing and falling the rules. I'm just going to open it up. Yeah. Oh, have you had a chance to look at the plants? Madam Chilli, the members of the board of the MECO BTCD. There is packing on this side. So if you give one car to this application, you're basically making it a private parking. And there's no room for more than one space. And it's also find out pying. So based on that, the asphalt, the ISE, have to be posted just in the request. So, the point that was submitted, it is, it's not for any other parking to the side, but you're right, it's only one car because it's a ball window that comes out that would block any additional space. But it's only one car which means you will remain one space on the street and you will find some one in the space. I can't speak with the crew cut. I have no idea how it went then. But according to the plans that I saw, it would never fit out quite seriously. But we're in the somewhere that can underhand because clearly we approved something in 2000. Well, it's 15 years expired, so policies and thought processes have changed. When was the current crime action put in? Um, D.P.W. 2000. When I got permission, I got to permit. They put it in 2004, but... Is there anyone here to speak in favor of the post? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andrade, a Campbell's office. We'll actually go on record and support. Anyone here who is speaking opposition? I want to put the pleasure of the board. I want to make motion for it to prove that, since we already have a land to be at that point, the appellance testimony is that the curb has put in in a timely fashion. I don't understand why. You can just stop parking the defile. Second. Second. A little favor? Aye. A little close. I'm a post. Calling B.O.A. 693. 949. 1785 Columbus Avenue. This is to combine three apostles. Is Columbus Avenue here? Yes. Okay. This is to combine three apostles into one site with the address of 1785 Columbus Avenue. Ninety-Amy 1337 Columbus, 1785 Columbus, and direct a new 206,500 square foot building with 139,230,930,200 square feet. Takeout, restaurant, and office. The 67,300 square foot parking. Buildings floor, 7 plus one best basement level, and two levels of parking, 157 spaces. Community uses of daycare center, takeout, restaurant, and office. The building height will be an average of 95 feet. Violations, Article 55, Section 22. Takeout, restaurant, and additional use. Article 55, Section 23. The Florida A ratio is excessive. An article 55, Section 23. Height is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Lee Goodman, 1705 Columbus Ave. Cape Bering, 1705 Columbus Ave. Dark 10 and Brown, architect from Embark, studio. 12 Goodman, 1705 Columbus Ave. Please drive, I'm probably pleased. Sure. Good morning, so my name is Lee Goodman, and I'm the president of the Department of Development, and this is a joint venture with Horizons for homeless children, represented by Kate Barand. We're currently the landlord next door to Horizons as our tenant, and they're expanding with us into the site next door. So it's a great project. It's a social service-centered building, so it's all going to be either nonprofit, or like department of children and family type uses in the structure. It's a community support period, a unanimous support throughout. There's also going to be a cafe at the corner of Dimmick and Amory Street that the BRA asked us to implement, and that's going to be run by a local business group that runs Chilicatez and Jamaica Plain. I'm actually going to let Kate talk briefly about Horizons and their mission. So, Horizons basically is an organization that serves homeless children, so inside of this. So, let's talk about the violations. Because there are, I guess, three zoning violations. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but we do know what the organization does. The project is before us for appealing the violations. So please, can you, can somebody on the team talk about what is required and what you're proposing? Sure. So the three violations are height. FAR and a takeout use. The takeout use was for the cafe space at the corner. That the BRA was looking to get some kind of street life involved in that corner of Amory and Dimmick. The FAR and the height are just the result of a formal industrial area being essentially re-zoned through J.P. Rocks. And we're a little bit in front of that, but we're kind of piggybacking in the spirit of the rezoning. So there's actually going to be allowed uses of these heights and FARs essentially up and down that corridor. So we're just out in front. It's three parcels, so it's the parking lot. It's the old blue warehouse that was a storage place for economy, plumbing, and heating, and an emotion auto body, a small auto body, who's moving down the street. What is the height required and what is the... So currently the height requirement is 35 feet because it's an IDA zone. J.P. Rocks has re-zoned the area and encouraged more density. And so what they've done is encouraged the density bonus for affordable housing. So while this isn't a housing project, it doesn't have that density bonus component, it does fit in. You're going to start to see 14 story buildings next door. So we're just kind of right about halfway up. J.P. Rocks, what would they allow? Well, they would allow anything you want, as long as you're willing to do the density bonus to it. In other words, you don't want fit there. Exactly. We're all commercial. So this is a straight zoning variance as opposed to a density bonus variance. And your proposed height is what? 92 feet? A base of average grade, it's 88 feet, six inches. So this is... So you're high rise? Yes. So it's more than twice what's required from zoning. Yes. Current zoning is IDA, yes. Is this an article, maybe? It is. Large, large, small. Large project review, it's been through BCDC, supported, support through all the community process, ONS, the BRA process. It's had strong support from all the butters on record. And the BPA looking for the... Close the... I think you've been... Right, so thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Jeff Hampton, Deputy Director for zoning. I want to make the record clear, although this plan, the BPA is in strong support of this project. I'd like to make the record clear that no zoning changes have been done to this area that have been incorporated entirely in 55. It does meet the spirit and the guidelines of the plan. However, no zoning changes have been done as a Viettion Article 55. So I don't want anyone in the audience or on the board to be confused about bonus densities. Because it hasn't been incorporated yet. We haven't written it yet. So the zoning that is before you now is the zoning that is still in place. It does meet the spirit of the plan. But again, no amendments have been done in Article 55 to be flipped. Last year, in the area before we approved the project on English Street at the corner of... ...Colomba City, Columbus and... Yes. ...Centre Street, but it had English Street address. You remember what the height of that was? I don't think it was this high either. Yeah, I'm not... I used to really... ...it has been so vetted in terms of going through the EPA, Article 80, light project and ACD. But the question comes about is where is the height of the relationship with the real estate place? Is the... It's the right thing. The J.P. Rox is... ...get to 98. So, I just mentioned quickly that the reason the height appears so high is it's being measured from the average grade. So... I understand exactly what that's meant. Just to mention, Anthony, from Columbus, to Amy, there's a 15-foot grade drop. So part of our parking, two levels of our parking essentially is tucked into the hill. And we've worked with the BPDA to do major step-backs and setbacks along DIMIC. Currently, there's a five-foot sidewalk. We've worked together 12-foot sidewalk. We've pushed the building back in additional 25 feet on the DIMIC side to open up the air for both for the pedestrian access along DIMIC, in addition to playgrounds for the children. What is the setback on Columbus? The setback on Columbus. I'm going to describe the controls. Sidewalks being shaded 4 feet. The current sidewalk is in, we're expanding it 4 feet. So you want to come into 12 feet. Correct. 12 feet around the whole building. How about the drawings? So, this is essentially creating a new street scape for this area of Columbus. Because as your drawings indicate, the property on the other side is essentially a 35-foot, maybe 40-foot height. You talking about the commercial building next door? I don't know. It looks residential to me. And I know there's a string of them on that side of the street here. Right. And then the academy is not, if what, 35 feet? If that? Yes, so it's important. It's true. So what happened in J.P. Rocks, although it is an issue yet? Right. But we just have to focus on what it is now and what? So what it is is there's 35 feet row houses. And then the way we designed it was to take the architecture of that brick and bring it across and then have our building step back to begin the new street scape as you describe it. And I think the expectation is as we go, they're going to get higher next to us. So we are the first step. But it's trying to be a bridge between the two. Yes, but what's the benefit? There is no benefit all you're asking for is just straight plain relief from the zoning. What's the benefit for the community? Yeah, I think so. One of the, because this isn't housing and there isn't affordable housing, it's why we wanted to talk a little bit about the uses. It's a school for homeless children and it's also a social service center, a job center. So you're talking about what's the job center? Let me, let me articulate what we're doing here. So the idea of this building is we have 200 children on our wait list. We want to serve more children. We have to open more seats. We're going to have 225 homeless children and their families who are using this building. We're going to be bringing in agencies who support our families so that there's one place that all of these families can go. And they can access what they need in the community, like food stamps, other services, early intervention for their children. So that this becomes a hub for this community where their children's needs are served and their needs are served as a family in one place. So is this in perpetuity or is this just a use? Do you have a lease or is this in any way set in perpetuity? Because the building is there regardless of who the tenants are. No, no, they're owners. We will go now. The applicants. Correct. Where are the services currently being delivered from? So right now in the White Rock Building next door we have a very small center of 50 children. We're going to be bringing our other, we have two other centers that operate in Dorchester and Jamaica Plain. They're all going to come together here. So it'll be a job center for teachers as well as it'll be our headquarters and all of our capabilities will be inside this structure. And the entire building is devoted to the mission of the organization. So our hope is that the tenants that go into his space will be people who service our clientele. In other words, government agencies in some cases that serve our families and other providers who serve our families. So when you say his face, what percentage is the origin of his face? 6040. So Horizons has the first two full stories. We have the upper four or three and a half. So we do have commitments from Department of Children and Families. To date, we're talking with another large nonprofit. But all the tenants will be of this type. And this is what you see up and down Amory Street. Community servings, AIDS action is here. Ethos. So if you know this area of Amory, it's all large nonprofits right near the Orange Line stations. So we want to continue that use. So your hope is that all the uses will be nonprofit. But what's the commitment to that? Well, the commitment. Is there something in the deed that restricts the nonprofit? It's just that on Amory Street and we do it on other property. That's the tenants you see. There is no Reebok, no fidelity coming to Jackson Square work. But you know, it might. And then we just need to know what happens with the relief we grant. You know, because essentially Horizons is limited to two stories. The rest of it could very easily become fall profit. You know, market rate uses as the environment changes because we are seeing a change. And seeing a change in the environment. Yeah, and we're committed to that use it. I mean, I don't know how you want us to word it, but we already have letters of intent in place from those type of uses. And continue the discussions with similar uses. That's all we're renting to. There is no over and stay at all. No. No. No. Yeah, I was just going to re-emphasize that we do a letter of commitment from the state for one floor plate for Department of Children and Families. Or in the conversation, there are also interested in more space, which we're discussing with them. That would be one and a half stories out of the three and a half that we have. Or meeting tomorrow with the mother of major nonprofit who was having to relocate from Somerville that has youth programs as well. And we're in conversations with the Department of Transitional Assistance. No one's question looked at the value of this work of administration. I think the year has been sirenous. What happened in five years? What happened? Ten years when we ran relief interference and the markets changed. And the patent tenant. You know, I'll do it. Unless you are locking people in the point of police. Well, the police, for instance, I mean, the leases are released at the stage, it's ten and ten. So we're twenty years out there. And these people also have the responsibility of fitting out their own space. It's a major economic investment. I don't think they do it casually. If this was residential, we would ask how many bedrooms you get a census to with the population. Right. Like you did your occupancy study of the building. What is the maximum occupancy of this building? The maximum occupancy of the building. So I'm just looking for the exact number. I think it's right around 600. What is the total number of parking that we have to consider the size of the building? Twenty seven parking spaces. And if it is a commercial, what would the parking ratio have to be? Two per thousand, three per thousand. It's .75. For a large project review. What time ratio? 1.75. Per thousand feet. So three quarter-carth, per thousand? Okay. I want to hear your speaking favor in the process. Madam Chair, members of the board. John Allison, mayor's office of neighborhood services. On behalf of Alex Feldes, we'd like to go on record and support. This went through a very good community process. And we'll facilitate the expansion of the homeless facility. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. We have two of the boards. And Maryfee from Councillor Mano-Malley's office. Councillor Lightes, we'll go on record and support of this project. Madam Chair, members of the board. On the board, we have Councillor Gordon's floor. Mr. Chair, we're members of the board. I'm on record. My name is Carolyn Royce. I'm at 19 o'on the street. I'm here speaking personally on the project. And I also have been very involved with Plan J.P. Rocks and I appreciate the questions from the board in that regard. Even though Plan J.P. Rocks is not encoded in zoning and it does represent the community standards, I think, for how to change industrial lots, how to change the use height and density of the industrial lots of which this is a really good example. So I wanted to just say a couple of things. The height that's designated for this in Plan J.P. Rocks is 70 feet. So they have exceeded that height. I can still support the project despite that because that frontage, the place where it's the highest is on Columbus Ave, which is very, very wide and has a median strip three lanes in each direction. Also it was very important that to me that they acknowledged a goal of wider sidewalks for better pedestrian experience. All these lots involved demolition and new build. There's no reason those buildings can't go back 12 feet to give a better pedestrian experience. And they did that on this project and they did it on Demick Street where it will make a very big difference. That's a very narrow street. The other thing is that they honored the J.P. Rocks guideline which is when you're the abutting apartment buildings which you correctly said were three stories high. They've those belonged to Urban Edge. And J.P. Rocks guidelines call for a step back when you're next to three story buildings and they did that on Demick Street. So I do appreciate that. The place where they don't meet the step backs and setbacks is on Amory Street. They don't have as much step back as would be required. Namory Street is a little narrower street and across the street is a three story building. I just ask if you could ask when BPDA does their design review that they would please look at that again. Those are BPDA guidelines so if they could just give that another little emphasis. But happy that Horizons for Homeless has a home for themselves, for the long term and personally like the office use and nonprofit. Thank you. I still am coming up on this idea that the zoning requirement is 35 feet. J.P. Rocks is the guidelines opposing 70 feet and you're coming in at 18 feet above those guidelines already. I would only note that I know J.P. Rocks isn't built yet but I think if you look closer at what J.P. Rocks is proposing it's actually 14 stories adjacent to our site and the reason they did 70 feet was because they expected six story podium apartment buildings. This is a use that no one really expected here because they all you're seeing in Jamaica and the main thing right now is these massive residential six story podium projects. We don't think that's a good use for this site because this allows something different. It's a job center. It's the expansion of Horizons for Homeless and we needed that to create the parking to make the building function. There's two stories of parking set into the hill and since the hill grade changes it makes it bumps the height up into that number you're talking about but again it's just a function of the use of the building. How much space is available after Horizons and youth and family? How much open space is left there? To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. To rent. Those are all playgrounds for the school you know it doesn't much matter but the design is just implemented to create a school function. And one of the questions might not be my only question but I have another question. Do you foresee any time in the future where Horizons would grow and rent some space in this building? And see if they may be extension to our program. You don't have a tent for that right now. We do have a tent. I don't know if anyone is from Jamaica plain, but Chilacottes, they have two Mexican restaurants in Jamaica plain and they have willing to expand into this space as the third. He actually grew up a block away, so I know my whole life. But it's not going to be a third. Chilacottes, it's a similar use, but he's a local guy with another restaurant on this street. The BRA was adamant that there would be some kind of street life on this corner. I know that I think the question is, we don't grant any good jobs unless there's an app. It's a specific use tie to a specific restaurant tour. Okay, any other questions? Let's plug through the board. Can I make a motion to approve with continued BPDA design review and just special attention? I don't know if we can do this. I guess it's really not enforceable to say that we can make the tenants. We want to hold your feet to the fire, basically, so you guys continue to put. I will hold his feet to the fire. It's all on that one too. Yeah, because I think that the spirit of the building is awesome. I think that the design is awesome. From my perspective, I think that we need that there. I just definitely, we don't want to see, you guys have a great reputation. We don't want to see anything where, or I don't want to see anything else before myself where we believe that you guys are doing something and something else changes. I'm in favor of that. I'd like to second the overall approval by Anna Proviso that as part of BPDA's design review that they take a very hot setbacks on the other streets. And I think we want to make that a condition that has to be a setback on the other streets. A setback on an upper floor, is that what we mean? Well, above the second floor. I'll think that as a amendment. Okay, the motion is made. Will the amendment second that all of the favour? Aye. I'm not opposed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Following BOA 774, 638, 162 to 172 South Street. This is the change of action from a store to a floating spa. An interior renovation for ten to fit out to include interior petitions and finishes. Violation of Article 55, Section 8, a floating spa was forbidding use. Article 9, Section 2, changing and nonconforming use. Name and address of the racket, please. Michael Volok, 162, 172. Moons, do you make a play? Do you see the standard project? I see. We're doing existing building, dividing into five to ten details. Play a little bit. Thank you. Five to ten details, basis to space. Was it convenient store? Yeah. Where have I got to go? Here. I have to go here. I have to go here. I have to go here. I have to go here. I have to go here. I have to go here. I'd like to see a bit. It's an empty space right now. It's approximately 1,100 square feet. One of the key petitions for rooms for floating spa, retail, type of space. Okay. So this is a change of nonconforming use. Right? Like the following use. That's why you're here. Yes. I have a plan. Dr. Anger, what exactly is a floating spa? I have these. Yeah, these go sure as I'll give you right now. It's a top that you can close yourself in about 10 inches of the water and out. So basically floating, the flow spa is going to have these flow pods which contain 10 inches deep of water, 1,000 pounds of epsom salt. The salt contains magnesium, is healing for the body. And then with the sensory deprivation, you're basically, you know, you're depriving yourself of, you know, your senses which gives you great stress relief and triggers your body's innate ability to heal. So, yeah. So the salt can be floating in the catch of one. Yeah, because there's so much salt, 1,000 pounds of epsom salt, you float effortlessly. So, yes, it's very safe. Noise. I heard of this before I was curious. Actually, the good thing about in regards to noise is that the whole spa is surrounded by, you know, it's based on being, you know, as quiet as possible because we want people to have a good experience. So, there's actually a lot of sound proofing that's going to go into the construction. So, it's, you know, very quiet. And that's the way you're supposed to be. You have to be the way you're supposed to be. But I'll give you the closer. OK. One question. How do you use accessibility? Accessibility? Well, I believe this is going to be handrails, right? Well, there's an accessible, that doesn't show it in that brochure, but there is an accessible talk. I'm looking at the one concerning, you're looking for a lot of accessibility. I mean, there's a small little vestibule, but it's, you know, there's not have sufficient dimension for someone in a wheelchair. So, that's existing in the building now. We weren't changing that part of the... I mean, changing a renovation to the open, why I took the money out of the door. Stand, I'm sure. I as we should get that out of the floor, I as we should get the room, but just something good might. OK. OK. Anyone else speak in favor of the project? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Ellis and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Alex Valdes, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Chair and Mayor Feverham Councilor Manomali's Office. The Council, I'd like to go on record and support this project. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sullivan, we have a seat of Councilor Lodge on Michael Flarey. Councilor Goen records. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? What's the play for the Board? I'm going to move to the second. From the only first or any... No, I'm changing the existence to the side. I'm going to move to the third. All those in favor? Aye. All the both. OK. Going to the 1030 hearings. Going BOA 665307 15H Mount Vernon Street. This is a covered deck to the second floor unit. Violations article 65, section 9. Side yad is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Kelly Kennedy. The 15 and a half Mount Vernon Street. OK. I'm waiting for the closing list. Yes, so I'm just looking basically to restore a deck that was already there. This is a triple decker in Dorchester. The other residents are interested on the second floor, so it'll just be a covered deck in the same size it was before. Did the original have the cover? No, well, nobody was a triple decker. So, yes. How are the drawings of the dining? The drawings are adequate. Is everyone here to speak in favor of the project? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison, Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to join our current and strong support. We did hold an on-site of butters meeting. There were no objections. This will be consistent with the rest of the street. Thank you. All right. One of your opposition. Let's put it before. The final approval of the BBN's on the second floor. Hello, Senator. Hi. I'm Paul Bowe. Calling B-O-A-684-275-102-102-H Street. This is an installation of a new 13 by 24 roof deck and installed by real estate from the existing red deck to a new deck. Violation is Article 68, Section 8. The RAF setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. My name's Henry Miller. I'm a registered architect here in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. And I'm joined by Chris Travata, who is the owner of one or two H.F.2 floor. It's an owner occupied unit. They live on the second floor. We are here to seek relief from Article 68, Section 8 regarding the REAR setback. The deck itself that we're building is in compliance with the setbacks. However, there's an existing stair out in the backyard, which is a nonconforming structure. The building itself is also nonconforming. It's only 10 feet from the property line. There's an existing deck off the back of the building and an existing stair to access that deck, which we would like to build on top of. So we're not making the setback any closer to the REAR setback. But we'd like to build on top of the existing spiral stair with another spiral stair identical to the one below so that we can then access the deck. I can hand you a smaller version of what you have. I believe there's one on sheets. I also have actually, which might help you. I have some street elevations in this packet here, which indicate the deck and how it would be viewed from the street. Okay, there are eight copies of that. All right. Let me see what we're doing. I'm sitting here to speak in favor of the project. Anyone here? Not the bid. Mr. Chair, members of the Board, John Ellis and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and opposition to this project. It is within Article 68, which is the new zoning district. And we've taken a position of not supporting any variances to Article 68. Additionally, I have heard from a few of butters who are in opposition. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the Board, Lauren Miller, City Council of Bill Lennie-Henz Office. We too, wish you go on record and opposition. Thanks. Mr. Daly, any invite to have a meeting with the other members? Yes. The issue is simply whether or not with a brand new zoning, whether a marriage issue is granted. What can you do, Dexas of Rights? As of right, you can build within the contact or the confines of the house itself. So you can go up within the house itself. The footprint. Yeah, and for the house in question was built in 1890. And it just won't allow for that kind of access. We simply don't have. But this can't leave right out over this. Yes, that's correct. The reason you had to tend to leave route is to restrict the access to the debt to the one unit all. And your unit is not the top floor. But his unit is the top floor. Okay, so why can't you just go up with a hatch of the graphic to the debt? The way the house is structured and framed on the top floor has got two by sevens, which are nominal or actual two by sevens. But I know all we're talking about is a little bit of money. Well, I guess, I mean, the problem is that it's a family. They only have two bedrooms in the back. So there's really no area for them to put this into your state. We'd need a five foot diameter spiral stair to go up through to the roof. That just isn't, we don't have the real estate in there to do it. And our hope was that because there's an existing nonconforming condition that we're not making wars, we're just simply building on top of. And the deck itself is compliant. It's only the stair itself and then the cantilever that leads from the deck. And the hope was that the reason I had that cantilever, the reason we put that there, was to keep the piece that was nonconforming as minimal as possible. What's going on here? There's no way from you don't have a real deck. There is a rear deck. From the rear deck you can guess what it is. Yeah, that's what the stair does. It goes, there's a rear deck that exists now. It's also nonconforming. And there's a stair that accesses that rear deck. We're building on top of that stair to go from that deck to the roof. And again, our stair would not be any larger than the existing stair. It would be the same size. And we're very familiar with that. If there are design solutions that would not, that would be at the right. Again, the only thing we could do as a right is if we built within the house, we simply don't have the space to do it. And it would require a fair amount of structural stuff. Again, the house is built in 1890, so the choice of there is small enough as it is. Is there a motion for the board? Yeah, I have reluctantly, I'm going to make a motion for it in Iowa, right now. I think the project on the space is a very good project. But the notion of immediately violating the new zone regulations and just have a hard time doing it. Second. Which means that you can re-work and come right back. Okay. Hello, good afternoon. Hi. Hello, hello. Thank you. Following BOA 697-078-11 Fayette Street. This is the correct violations for permits. A new reapportico has been built and the rare entrance exit on the first floor level with other permit or inspection. Along with the installation of offence and the rare yard of six feet over, over six feet tall. Change the argument from a single family to a two family. The violations, Article 32, Section 9, the G-Card, the enforcement, Article 63, Section 8, Fayette is insufficient. Article 63, usable open spaces insufficient. And Article 63, Section 9, the density limitation regulations. Name and address for the record, please. Good. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary, members of the board. Attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28th State Street here in Boston. With me today are the property owners. Frank Moore to my immediate right in Gustavo, Dejo Suarez to my far right. Here before you today for conversion to a single family to a two family, basically to legalize a longstanding actual occupancy of the building. And to properly permit a rare portico that was mistakenly built at the rare entrance exit on the first floor level without a permit. The rare portico triggered zoning relief required for rear yard and sufficient and groundwater review. By way of a little bit of background, the family has owned this property and is building for over 20 years. It's been inhabited as a two family ever since they've, before they purchased it. For some reason, the occupancy was never legalized despite various efforts to do so over the past few decades. We're here basically to obtain approval for the two family. The city assessing department for what its worth has had the property listed as a two family since 2005 for over a decade. So it's a very narrow lot. It's only a thousand square feet. The majority of the property is covered by the existing building. The lot is only 13 and a half feet or so at the rear of the property. 16 and a half feet at the front. And the violations are basically kind of bifurcated and that two of them are due to the zoning, the legalizing of the two family. The usable open space because we are technically adding a unit per the zoning code as well as the density regulations in the rear portico triggered the G-Cod enforcement as well as the rear yard violation. So a majority of these are due to existing conditions at the property and that we are just legalizing today. So what would be one of the two of the G-Cod and two of the firsts that we're going to get back to that for a few minutes? The Chairman and members of the board, Christian Seminole, ground water trust. I've had some conversations with the applicant over the past couple of weeks. So you were looking for some additional clarification on the G-Cod trigger. ISD is providing them with that. However, they have yet to submit plans to water and sewer. So at this time I do support a whole for signature. The applicant has committed to installing a recharge system but the plans to have not yet been submitted to water and sewer for approval. They have not been but the applicant has committed to a system. So is there a reason why this office was brought on board about 10 days ago. The applicant just did not understand the requirement and that's the reasoning. We've provided a letter today to the board for the file from the civil engineer who has been hired, who is on board and does have plans in the works for the recharge system. But frankly, the applicant just wasn't aware of the requirement of the time. Hence, the last 10 days we've done as much work as we possibly can. And we appreciate Christian's patience in all the frantic calls that we've made. But we are working on it. Did have some back and forth with inspection services in the applicant. There was just a missed communication between ISD and the applicant. The question that I had to ask is, what are the actual square footage in between units? One of the square footage is of the two units. The lower unit is 1234 duplex and the upper unit. All right. All right. I'll give you time to take it. Three. Yeah. All right. All right. All right. A smaller, a bigger. Larger. It's around 16. Yeah. The question in the art experience, how long will it take to get the stamp? I'm going to approve the plan for water and sewer. Typically, with their workload, it can take anywhere from two to four weeks depending on where they are with their caseload. So somewhere in that time frame. All right. Because the question is, how do we simply sit on those two to four weeks? In fact, we should send the deferred so that the bill of plan catches up with that. If I may, Mr. Pazani, the next hearing is not for three weeks. There is not a two week hearing. It's not for three weeks. With the plans already being worked on, I don't see why we would not be able to have that done by the next hearing. The reason why we strongly urge not to be granted a deferral is just because that will cost two to three months of time. I just don't think we need. I'm not going to be like in all fairness. I mean, you listen to me in this state for a decade. No, the trigger for G-Cod is the rear portico, which was only installed recently. Look, we understand to make a meeting for you where you can ask the board to see what I'm not following properly. No. I understand. No, no, no, I completely understand. And that was not my suggestion. What I would just say for clarification is the rear portico was what's triggering G-Cod. And that has not been in at this building for more than a few months. We don't have a decision to answer from water. No, yeah, no plans. No plans. It's been submitted. The applicant has had. I want to make much of the deferral. Okay. Okay. Second. All the papers. All right. All right. Okay. All right. Now we look at the date. You're going to do it soon. Well, we can do it soon. We can try to fit it into June 27th meeting. I have a new office ready by June 27th, will you? That's some, I mean, we were just told that it takes anywhere from two to four weeks. So if the plans are submitted this week, I should have something by the 27th, yes. Like we would meet again until July 11th. We're not meeting up for as we could July. Okay. And that's why we're allowed to be. Do July 11th. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Following your next case, calling BLA 687-435-22 to Faudi-Chancey Street. This is a change of opportunity from a business office to trade professional school for the Boston Academy of English as an existing tenant located on the 8th floor at 38 Chancey Street. No work to be done. Violation is odd at the late section 7th. The professional school is a conditional name and address to the record place. Richard Ryan, Beacon Architectural Associates here to represent the client who was a tenant at 38 Chancey Street at the 8th floor. They are Stafford House International who run the Boston Academy of English. They had a fit out back in 2012 under that permit. The occupancy was listed as business. We're now looking to revise that occupancy to correct it to a trade or professional school. Okay. So there's nothing but an okay. No change. No work being done right there. No work being done right there. There's nothing what he wants to speak of favor of the board. Mr. Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayer's office of neighbourhood services. We'd like to unrecord and support unfairly against any change. Any money here to speak in opposition? Your motion. Second. Opposed? I have a vote. Thank you. Following POA 692-060, one-merimax tree. This is an extension of a conditional use permit for the commercial parking lot consisting of 16 license parking spaces on one-merimax tree. The zoning board of appeals decision signed on March 10, 2015 granted the extension of the previous conditional use permit of the site for two years expiring March for our 2017. No work will be performed with this permit. The violations are Article 14, Section Article 45, Section 14. Parking lot is conditional use and Article 6, Section 6-3A, additional condition and restricted parking district. Name and address for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Members of the Board, my name is Jonathan Burke, and it's turning with the business address at 50 Milk Street in Boston. We're just here seeking a continuation essentially of a variance that was issued two years ago at the sport for parking on the property. There's no changes to be done. It's the same operator who's operating the spaces and there's no work or changes to the space. The retail use is continuing to be used as the same coffee shop and ATM and 16 parking spaces will be used on the lot as well. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services, and behalf of Maria Lanza. We'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Can I just make a comment? Sure. So this is like the third time today we've seen this with the permit is expired. Can you make an effort to get refiled February 2nd with ISD? This is the first hearing data I could get. Just ask the question. I apologize. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I will make a motion to extend for two years. Second. Hello, Senator. Hi. All opposed. Thank you. Calling BOA-693-343-19 to 21 short street. This is a building new deck using 2x12 BT loaded on a triple 2x12 beam deck. We set it on a 6x6 post. Violation, dynamical 62, section 8. It's a fishing radio set back. Name and address? For the record, please. First, the project is a project. The project is a contractor to extend my existing deck in the rear of my building. This was in May of 2016. During construction, this deck is already built to suit everyone's aware. In my construction, there was a permit displayed in my window. Project was completed in August of 2016. We awaited final sign off from the building inspector. I kept getting the run around from my contractor until all the way through the fall, saying it was coming. He then disappeared through the holidays. Got back in touch with me, saying it's coming after the first of the year. And again, disappeared for over two months. I went down to 1010 Mass Ave in February of this year to find out he had initially pulled a short form permit, the incorrect permit, because we were extending the deck, not replacing an existing structure. At that time, I just wanted to do whatever was right and had in a butter's meeting unopposed, found out that the long form that he did submit with plans was denied due to the setback violation that I'm seeking a variance for now. Okay. So, this is now built? This is built and has been for a year. Okay. And when was the indication that there was a setback problem? The first I heard of it was February of this year. The denial letter actually expired. So many months after was built? Yes. It's six to seven months after was built. And what's the required and what has it been built to? So the required setback is 15 feet from the rear property. The deck actually runs away from the property line. So at the closest point to the setback property is 11 feet, six inches. It is in compliance within two feet of the deck, because the property line and the deck run away. It's three and a half feet long. Correct. At the closest point and then within two feet it gets to 15 feet. Now the problem is it reflect exactly that. Now this is in child's time, right? Yes sir. I do have letters of support from anyone here who's eating fish. Good afternoon. Members of the board of appeals, Salud Soul, Lomitina, City Council, representing child stop. I want to go on bracket and support. As Mr. Sackle said, this has been a long process for him. With his contractor, he has full support from his neighbors and the Abudders. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and behalf of Chris Prin. We'd like to go on record and support. This project has been through the community process. Our office did hold an onsite of butters meeting at which a few neighbors attended. There was no opposition. Additionally our office has not received any opposition to this project for that reason as well as our view that the scope of the project is not large. It's appropriate for this surrounding neighborhood and it will not adversely affect those around the property. We would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Following BOA 575 625 318 31 Lexington Street. This is a change line from 6 to 7 units. It's previously approved by the zoning board. This work is to add a third floor to the present building, new kitchen bathrooms, violations article 52, section 8, forbidden use of multi-family dwelling, article 53, section 9, exceeds the floor to the area ratio of .8, article 53, section 9 exceeds the number of storage between a half, article 53, section 9, insufficient side to add setback, five feet, article 53, section 9, insufficient rail. Add setback of 30 feet, article 53, section 52, no room structure shall be erected on the existing building, article 53, section 56, insufficient side to be parking, 1.5, and article 53, section 56, insufficient maneuverability areas in an appropriate means of a vehicle accessed to the street. Council, I just got a quick question. Was this permit originally back in 2005? 2004. 2004. And due to financial reasons. Thank you. This is a through lock, right? This is a through lock. Yep. That's a unique lock. Jeff Drego. Jeff Drego. Attorney for the applicant with Drego in Tuscanyl, 15 Broad Street, here at my client, Al Marano, who is the owner of 31A-31 Lexington Street. As was mentioned, we're here seeking zoning relief to add a third story, Penthouse Unit, which Mr. Marano is looking to move back to East Boston and live in the building. It was mentioned back in 2004. This was approved by the board. It permits expired due to financial reasons. And Mr. Marano is back seeking to build that unit from self. Most of the violations on the building are pre-existing. It isn't a two-family district, so it's a multi-family building being pre-existing. The FAR will increase slightly from 0.8 to 1.05. Obviously, the stories in height go from 2.5 to 3. The side yard and rear yard, both pre-existing violations. Roof structure restriction is triggered by the third story. And the parking, as was mentioned, is for 10 sports that has been pre-existing. That parking has been there since the building was built. We worked diligently with the Eagle Hill Civic Association this time around to make a number of changes. More of historic look to the building with a man-side roof and new clavboard on the sightings and shutters along the windows. The current unit would be a proposed unit would be a two-bedroom, two bath, 1488 square foot Penthouse Unit, as was mentioned, all of the other units are pre-existing. Is this proposed, or personally the same as the one that was set for the project? Is the exact same one? The only way to play a lot of changes on the exterior. Just on the exterior. And whether for the ideas with that, that? Just, no, just BPD8, or BNRA design. Designed unit. How are the drawings just in designing? Grind the record. Anyone here want to speak in favor of the building? Madam Chair, members of the Public Library, the Mayor of Sanchez on the Public Services, would like to welcome strong support of this application. There was no opposition during the abode as meeting. Also they changed the design of our time. Priority, Eagle Hill Civic Association, which also have requested that they provide some type of landscape and they would earn strong support of this application as well. Good afternoon, members of Board of Staff of the 211st, City Council of Representative East Boston. One good record support, Mr. Marano, is a former East Bostonian and guess what? They all want to come back to the East Bostonian again. So he wants to come back with his girlfriend and build a nice penthouse over there. So we welcome him back to East Boston. So one good record support, thank you. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? Let's pleasure the Board. We'll come to approve with VPL VPA. That's the screening and buffering of the parking lot at Parking Lock. Second. So this motion to approve with the PDA design review of including screening and buffering on the parking lot. All those are there. Hi. Thank you. Thank you. Calling BOA 649-100-494 Sumner Street. This is confirming legalizing the existing roof structure, roof deck. Violation, tactical 53, section 52, roof structure restrictions. Name and address to the record players. My name is Robert Piles, 494 Sumner Street, East Boston. So thanks very much for taking the time to hear my case this morning. I live in the property with my wife and my two little girls. My wife and I bought the house in 2005. One of the big reasons we fell in love with the house and decided to move into it, even though it was a little bit out of our price range, was it had a roof deck. That was a big determining factor in why we bought the house. We've enjoyed the roof deck since then. We are, you know, a very active members of the community. And we also take a lot of pride in being landlords. In fact, this is true. I just got a text from one of my tenants this morning who said, good luck at the meeting. You're a great landlord and you can tell the board that. We'll see that. I'm sorry. We're getting a little punchy up here. All right. All right. I can show you the text. I have it on my phone. So a little over a year ago, I received, I was served notice of the violation. I had no idea that it existed. The violation was existing. You know, we lived there for over a decade before getting this notice. Since then, it's been about a year and a half that have been trying to navigate the process of legalizing it. It's been a pretty difficult process. Can you, so when you bought the house, the roof deck was there. Absolutely. It had been there for a number of years, even before we bought the house. I didn't know how many. My estimate would be five to ten. I think it's a minimum five years. What prompted the notice? I have absolutely no idea. Mr. Pazani, I don't know. I can read into the record here what they have. It's just a railing is four foot eight above the roof and requires a two foot setback for each foot above the roof. So that, if I may. Sorry, let us ask you questions. So is this only for your unit? It's a common roof deck. It is currently locked. I've had it under lock since getting this notice. It is a common roof deck. What's the access to it? It's a staircase and a hatch. I'm sorry, and just to clarify, it's not a staircase in the back of the building. It's a staircase in the center internal. It looks to be an internal spiral staircase. That's correct. Okay, but there's no indication of what prompted. So that's the thing. I mean, we have, I don't even have so much as a driving ticket on my record. We have good relationships with all of our neighbors. So to answer your question, I don't know what prompted this violation. Was this recent construction? No. I mean, no. We bought the property in 2005, and I believe it had been there at least five years prior. That's my mother and my wife. That's right. It's an eight foot said back currently from the front of the building. And I actually just yesterday had the brilliance idea of printing out some pictures. So you guys can see it. This is the view of the front of our building. of our building. Oh, I have them over here. OK, actually let me hear both of these. So there's three photos. The first two photos are from the center of Sumner Street, which is a pretty wide street. And you cannot see the reef deck at all. What about if you're in the general test when you do sidelines? It's from the back side of the wall. So there is one picture where it is the upper, the very upper portion of the reef deck is visible. And that's exactly where you're at. Yes, that's the opposite side of Sumner. Anyone want to ask me a favor of the applicant? Madam Chair, members of the board, Clanny, come in from the Mayor's Office and the Blue Services. We'd like to go and record and support this application. Good afternoon, members of the board of Salvatore, La Vittina, City Councilor. I'm going to go record. I met Mr. Piles. She's like 11 years ago. We first moved into neighborhood, beautiful family. And they want to stay in the neighborhood. And he is a good landlord. So I'm going to go record and support. Thank you. Anyone here who's speaking up position? Let's pledge to the board. March 24th. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. I'm Oboz. You're all set. Thank you guys very much. I appreciate it. Calling your next four cases. Calling BOA 683771. One to one eight lamps in court. Here's also a building code. Calling BOA 6837701 to one eight lamps in court. Third case, BOA 6837813 to five lamps in court. In BOA 683, 782 to three to five lamps in court. Building code. This is for one to one eight lamps in court. This is to combine puzzles. Lot of 600 and 8.75 square feet and 592.75 square feet to create lot too. 1,201.5 square feet. Direct a new two residential unit townhouse with Bay overhang on a public way in a parking garage on the ground floor of Lot 2. The violation is Article 53, Section 57.2. Conformity of an existing building alignment. Article 53, Section 57.3. Traffic visibility across corners. Article 53, Section 9. Lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. Additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. Floating area ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The building height is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. Useable open spaces insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. Side yacht is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 9. Rail yacht is insufficient. This is the building code for one to one eight lamps in. Section 8, Section 7, AACMR. Section 320.3.2. Windows, balconies, and architectural features and mechanical encortment. This is for three to five lamps from court. This is a raise the existing structure for three to five lamps. With 750 square feet and 150 square feet and 152 square foot, 148 square foot to create Lot 1, a 1,798.5 square feet. Direct a new three story residential unit townhouse with Bay Overhang on a public way, in a parking garage on ground floor on Lot 1. The violation is Article 53, Section 57.2. Conformity of existing building alignment. Article 53, Section 9. A lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. Floating area ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The building height is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. Useable open spaces insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The side yard is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 9. The rail yard is insufficient. This is building code for three to five lamps. And Section 780, CMR, 8th edition, 3202, Section 32.2, 3.2. Windows, balconies, and architectural features of mechanical encortment. Name and address for the record. It's Patrick Bohoney of Adams and Marancy with a business address of 350 West Broadway. With me is Doug Steffanoff of Steffanoff Architects of 432 West Broadway. The ring summary in the 12th of April. Thank you, sir. There's four separate parcels at the corner of Lampson Street and Lampson Court. And they're being combined and then subdivided to erect on the corner of Lampson Court and Lampson Street, a two family building positioned as two townhouses, approximately 1,300 square feet. And to the left of that, three dash five Lampson Court is erecting a three family building in the same positioning of three townhouses, 1,300 square feet with one parking space each. There have been some violations eliminated. Did you see the separate for moments right into the building building? Oh, certainly. The building code is intrusion into a public way. And initially we were seeking relief for that. But it's after a discussion with the architects, we've decided that the violation is only six inches. It's because for every inch above eight feet, they're allowed to protrude out one inch, providing you don't exceed two thirds of the public way. And here that difference is six inches and discuss the architect with the architect in the hall. And we concluded that it's not a problem with the design to reduce that amount. That's correct, let's draw that. Motion to deny the code. Second. All right. Go ahead. Okay. Okay. The zoning violations that have been eliminated are traffic visibility on the corner lot. And the reason for that is because we have a, an existing building alignment or modal alignment here of zero and where no front yard is required, that section of the application of the mental requirements doesn't apply. Additionally, I would like to mention that this LAMSIN court is a very small street. It's not a through way. I don't know the exact number of houses, but there's less than 10 houses on the street. So it isn't a high traveled road. There was any concern with that. Is this property been before this board? It has, and it was approved by this board. There was an issue with advertising, one violation. So we had to go through the process again. But to some benefit, by going through the process again, the building changed a little bit. Initially, there was a mezzanet room, a bedroom on the top floor that's been removed. There's some of the ornamental detail, and moldings and cladding on the dancing style roof has been improved at the request of the neighbors. Additionally, there was two parking spaces before, and much of the neighborhood required us to do one. So there has been some interior design changes in architectural additions. And how does the access to the parking work? It's one car space in a garage off of LAMSIN court. The code violation is only for one to one. It's for both Mr. Bazzani. It's because the protrusion of the bay is at 10 feet, and it extends out 30 inches. And chapter IBC, chapter 23 essentially says, it can protrude out on the public way. That's a little move, right? Yes, I just was clarifying it. So the bay will still exist. It just will only protrude out 24 inches in a being compliance. OK, how are the drawings of Mr. Bazzani? Dr. Bradford? If anyone here wants to speak in favor of the project. Megan Chairman, this is the pro-colonial career from the Mayor's Office of the Bullish Services. We'd like to go over and support this proposal. They went through an extensive community process. We only ask that they continue to work with the direct of others, especially during the construction period, given that this is a moral street. Also, the Jefferson neighborhood association who ordered in support of this upper puzzle. Good afternoon, members of the boys, Salisla, and the Tennessee Council. I also like to go and record in support. Just asked the developer to continue to work with the immediate butter who was on vacation, who did not have the chance to attend some of the meetings. And so we made that connection today. So thank you. Anyone here who's speaking off the vision? Just put it through the board. Questions for approval of the BDA. Designing the view of the butterflies. Second. Both there. Hi. All both. All the way to the meeting. Thank you, all. Thank you. Now we're into the 1130 cases. I will say one more time. Are there any deferrals or trials for 1130? Address? 95 calendar street. Hold on. Call it in for the record. Fuller record calling B O A 647 490 95 Cali-Med street. Name and address for the record please. Yes. Peter Vanco, 67 Campbell Street, fourth floor. Yes, we're seeking deferral today for this project. To say we need a little more time and community. It's well we need an updated violation letter from ISD because we're proposing a significant reduction in unit count. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. It's like a full second. It's like a full second. It's like a full second. The significant reduction in unit change significantly the violation. It will indeed. It may actually make the FAR violation a moot point as well. We're proposing to do our unit work entirely with the within the existing building. We have an abnormally large building of normally large lot. We're going to attempt a six unit proposal that we think is more feasible whereas we're currently nine and. Okay. We don't need to get into the further. The motion is the first or second second. All of your favour? Hi. All opposed. It's going to be July 25th. Excellent. Thank you. Okay. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? We're going to call the first case calling BOA 658 690 192 Belgrade Avenue. This is a change actually from a commercial to residential conversion of one free standing, one story building on the same lot of residential two family known as three Newberg Street. Is three Newberg tied in with this one? Do you have two cases here? Yes. Okay. I'm going to call that one for the record as well. The project involves rehabbing of 192 Belgrade Avenue. There is a companion case BOA 658 688 three Newberg Street. I'm going to call the violations for Belgrade for us. Article 67 section 56. Osterie Pockner, insufficient packing. Article 67 section 9. Demential regulation is the absolute residential sub district is an excessive FAR extension of the Blooming Space into the basement. This is for three Newberg Street. There will be no construction work or alterations of any kind performed in the two family at three Newberg. The violation is Article 67 section 56 Osterie Pockner requirements. Name and address for the record please. John the Angeloist 172 Key Church Street. Ross and Delnaz is your turn to round. So I'm just confused. I live on Newberg Street at the other end, however. I just realized that we needed clarification here because it sounds like really all you're asking for is for work to be done at 192 Belgrade. That's correct. The hearing we had about a month and a half ago. I clarified that. So let me just get it straight. Oh, sorry. If the only thing that's before us is Belgrade, we can then take off Newberg off of the agenda, right? Because there's no construction. There's no construction being done there. I was told when I submitted the architectural plans that I would have to find. Is it a separate lot? It's the same lot. So there's a two family on the corner, the same lot and there's this free standing little building. That's my. There's two buildings on the same lot. Yes. The first one is for a request is for 192 Belgrade to convert that little office into residential unit. A one bedroom residential unit. How big is that space? The 192? Yeah. So public records, based on public records, 688 square feet. I'm here with my architect. He may add some Nick Palucci from Mass Architect. The first floor is 435 square feet. The records show 688 square feet total and we assume that they include the basement in that. Yes, but the basement is totally and completely underground so that in essence the 435 square feet is what we're working with. And we are, I would like to incorporate that the basement space is part of the unit, refinished it and via a spiral staircase create a negress in the back. There is a bulkhead that can be reconfigured in a way that there will be stairs going on ground level. How are the drawings just going down here? What is the floor to ceiling height of the basement? Right now it's about 8 foot 8 from this lab to the bottom of the drawer. A and a half feet. I do have one question. On the first floor you have a bedroom and a kitchen and living room. You have a spiral staircase to the basement and that's where the bathroom is. That's called a den. Why don't you just put your computer in the bedroom? The basement. And then you have a situation where you have a room without any left. Originally the owner wanted a second bedroom downstairs and we were going to put a window well, get light down there. We tried a number of layouts and tried to fit a bed in that space and it's just not really good. Just very sacrifice because of the spiral staircase being rather large as a second minovigress. Just eating up a lot of space so it doesn't make any sense to have a bedroom. I thought of it as a den and I'm talking to my architect to see if I should still add some extra light but the idea is that since space is very minimal upstairs they call that space then in front of the kitchen and living room so I would have... I actually have another concern and that is that that space has its own independent means of the rest and the rest. So the question comes about why would you not soon be getting rid of the spiral staircase and still the second unit? Oh second unit, ow man. I can't understand the concern because I know people that would think that way but I sincerely would feel claustrophobic and such as more space upstairs I would definitely need the second level to this little unit. Have you thought about doing it right and adding a second story and making it a true board boat? I thought of it but I financially wouldn't make much sense. Right now cost the contractors they're asking crazy outrageous numbers. They're all busy and so I'm just keeping my costs at a reasonable amount. That's put it this way. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors, offices, neighborhood services and behalf of Dan Murphy. We'd like to go on record and support. We're going to go on record and then we'll see what happens. We're going to go on record and then we'll see what happens. We're going to go on record and then we'll see what happens. All those are favour? Aye. All those? Okay. Who's in favour? I'm in favour. Okay. Then the motion is put in the loudest. Next case, calling BOA 670487, one to three done by the road. I'll be in in favour of that the proponent is withdrawing so I make a motion for denial with our prejudice. Second. All right. All right. Spent denied. This is the extend living space to the basement and create a new dwelling unit. Two family dwelling will remain the same. Work to include new egress in the basement and add petition walls and bathroom and kitchenette. The violation is Article 55, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 55, Section 8. The housing units are forbidden. They have an address for the recu place. Good afternoon. My name is Ben Forman, 12th Harvard Street on the homeowner and I'm joined by Jason Heinebeck, the project architect. When you were here last time in the issue of the size of the unit, right now you were across and come back. Would you have a slightly revised plan if you have that? Yes. Thank you for the opportunity to hear this again and your excellent suggestion to increase the size of the unit. We came in with plans originally with 420 square feet of living space. We've been able to add additional space as you suggested subtracting from the mechanical room. So the unit is now 480 square feet of living space. Is that any of you that were advised by the right? I do. Right. Okay. Any comments on the pages? No. I think they were, they missed something. I think you had a better hearing about it. Is anyone here to speak in favor of the project? Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison Mayors, offices, neighborhood services, and behalf of Alex Valdes. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Anyone here who's speaking opposition? A pleasure to the Board. A motion to approve continued BPDDA design review. A second. Hello. Hi. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. I found a 204 Adam Street in Dorchester, mass 02122. So I've listed Beasley, one side of nine, Howard F, which is the mass 0215. How far is Beasley, Jr.? I don't want 59 Howard F, Dorchester mass. There, you wanna summarize it? Well, yes, this project is proposed at three family in the vacant lot. It's only for three F, 4,000. The family, the Beasley family have been living in the next door with the vacant lot over 25 years. And the proposed building would be occupied by the family members. So what are the violations? Can you address what the violations are? Yes, the last size is a requirement for 4,000. And we have a 4,330 square feet. And a little bit over the FAR, the requirement was 0.8. We all over 0.8, too. The building height is okay. The front yard is a 20 feet, but we have 3 feet in one side and seven feet from the other. The side yard, 10 feet. We have 10 feet to one side and the other side, we have a 7.88 feet. And the rear is okay. Why were you deferred? I'm sorry. Why were you deferred? Because I couldn't make it to the meeting here, and I asked my colleagues to come here earlier. But some question that he couldn't answer because he never been in the site before. So that was my error. So this is three family and you won and living it? Yes. Respiratory unit? Oh, yes. And we went to, we have a, a butters and neighbors meeting and they were fully support. And we also went to the project right, see the association and we got fully support from them as well. I was in the drawings with them. Roger, I have a question. Everyone here is to be in favor of the project. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayer's Office of Neighborhood Services. And then we have the Joshua McFadden. We'd like to unrecord and support. Thank you. Everyone here is making opposition. Pleasure to the board. Motion to approve. exterior work? No construction. No construction, yes. Motion to approve with BPDA. Yes. Good evening. Hello, the federal. Hi. Hi. Hello. You're all right. Thank you. Thank you. Following that case, calling BOA 665759 145 145 East Berkeley Street. This is an addition on the first floor on the back of a restaurant kitchen. Back for a restaurant kitchen. Violation is Article 9, Section 1. Extension of a nonconforming use is conditional. Article 64, Section 19. The Florida Eurasia was excessive. Article 64, Section 19. The idea of setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Daniel Surrien, 128 Cambridge Street, Charlestown, Mass. All the Agile of a 145 East Berkeley Street, last and most. OK. One of the violations that you're here for. Well, we had an initial hearing attempt on Mass Ave. And there was a dispute with the Abadda next door, which has been resolved. In what way? What is this in the community? I was also here. The campus here, both there and here. So what's the ownership and the access? I think that was the issue that the access. Right, exactly. Correct. This to build and share one egress door. So we provided an additional egress door to him. And is that at the time? Is that a plan to reflect that? Yeah, I'm drawing the show set. OK. Thank you. Why is the same different than what I saw before? All right. Well, I'm waiting on Mr. Reside and looking drawing so that anyone want to speak and support it. Right. Where? OK. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sam Chambers, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support the applicant as a letter from the support of the Old Louren Neighborhood Association. And there are a long time restaurant in the neighborhood. So we would like to go on record and support it. Thank you. On my procedural point of view, they have no documentation. That's to what it is that most people. Can it be held signature? We should defer. Well, the seems just to be open to the group. No, because I'm going to have to see it with drawings. See the new ones. I think it's the right one. I think that the key parts of the new tone, yes. Show them. So you want to go further? More than you did before. Second. Hello, Mayor. All right. Hello. OK. We need to come back with a new update of plans. Got it. All right. Subcommittee of this whole. You're going to take? I'm going to do something. I'm going to do something. Subcommittee for it's going to get a few things. Before you leave, so we have the Subcommittee meeting. It's going to happen June 22nd, or July 20th. I don't know what we want. All right. Let's do June 22nd. That's a Subcommittee down to 10, 10, 10, 10. 10, 30 seconds. Yeah. Bye. Bye. OK. Thank you. Following the next case, the last case for 1130. Calling BOA 686-465-213 Harrison Avenue. This is a change of occupancy from a retail store to a beauty spa to include massage therapy, installation of interior petition walls, violation of Article 43, Section 19. Use of beauty spa, inclusive to massage therapy as a conditional use. Name an address for the record please. The record, my name is Attorney Jack P. Milgram. I represent the applicant. My address is 21 Macarath Highway Unit 203, Quincy Mass, 02169. I have a full board. It's afternoon. My client's application for a change of use to 13 Harrison Avenue. According to the most recent certificate of occupancy, there's five units in this building. There's four commercial units. I'm sorry. There's four residential units in this one commercial unit. The proposal was a change of use in the commercial unit from retail to beauty spa, accusing massage therapy. In the event? Excuse me. So why were you deferred the last time? I'm sorry? Why were you deferred? Because when I went to suck, you made a 1010 May I SAV that wasn't a letter from neighborhood services. OK. Do you have that now? I don't have a letter from neighborhood services. After the subcommittee meeting, I corresponded by email with neighborhood services. And they told me that they were going to come here and that they're going to ask that the petition be allowed. By not having actual letter. OK. I'll go get the money. I'm going to make it two or three. That's fine. Ms. Posani, do you have the drawings? I do. Mine is right. OK. Is very good. I'd like to speak at favor of the applicant. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joan Alice and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of Denny Ching, we would like to go on record and support. Thank you. What about here speaking opposition? What's my board? Most of the two of you. Second. All of them there. Hi. All of you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. All right. To the hearing recommendation. Give me two seconds here. I'm good. OK. You're going to read all the cases. I will. Here we go. So case BOA 695, 63881 Pearl Street was to confirm a single-fueling dwelling. It was approved. Case BOA 6894, 3Me Court. It was an addition to the front single resident. It was approved. Case BOA 687, 9262 Ludlow Street. It was a floor area ratio as excessive area. The setback was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 685, 082, 7 Ringgold Street. It was approved. The floor area ratio was excessive and real hotline. Case BOA 676, 750, 56 Jamaica Street. It was constructed in addition to both sides of the existing single-family residential. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 684, 592, 90 Floyd Street. It was expanding into the attic. Master's suite was approved. Case BOA 697, 05512 Waterflow Street. It was a curb cut parking for two vehicles. It was approved. Case BOA 664, 957, 289 Washington Street. It was a change of art from newspaper store to office. It was deferred to 720 at 5PM, July 20th. Case BOA 693, 93730 Reader Road was the removal of an existing sunroom and adding two floors across space. It was approved. BOA 693, 320, 17 Sedalia Road was a constructing new roof and shed dormer and extend living space to the attic. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 688, 1, 2A, 3, 5U Street. It was a master suite conversion and extending third floor attic space. It was approved. Case BOA 692, 411, 298 Vermont Street. It was an addition of the second floor to the existing house. Two new bathrooms, two new bedrooms was approved. And Case BOA 6181443, 89 Antwerp Street was a change argument with one family into a two family. Interactive vertical addition was approved with BPDA. That concludes the many subcommittee meeting. The entertainment motion, you can carry it with the recommendations or subcommittee. So good. Second. Hello, the famer. Hi. Hello, close. Supervenient. Thenous helps everybody. It's getting very exciting. Well, thank you.