 Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for November 6, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislator this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 20, 7. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen, and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Members are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as followed. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project, that is, those who individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand will should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select Yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to say their name and address first, and then they can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stemberd reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Thank you. Uh, Mr. Stemberd. Good evening, Madam Chair. Present. Good evening, Ms. Betabraza. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Laura's yours, Mr. Stemberd. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll begin with the five o'clock. The hearing schedule for five PM for the subcommittee today. We start off with case BOA 175 9609 with the address of 72 Laden Street. If the applicant and or their representant or president, would they please explain to the staff? Yes, hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mary K Campbell with the law from Dr. Goentoscano at 11 Beacon Street. I'm here today on behalf of our client, the owner of 72 Laden Street, and he's Boston, who is seeking to change the occupancy to a three family dwelling in order to reflect the buildings existing layout. The only violation he is seeking relief from is use. Kansas is in an EBR 2.5 sub district. My client purchased this building last year with the existing layout of three units, and is there for looking to have the occupancy updated to reflect that in order to provide additional housing and be able to fully utilize the building's current floor plans. I can pause now and take any questions from the board. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? No, Madam Chair, I don't have any questions. Thank you. May I have a public testimony? Madam Chair, I don't know if anyone from ONS is here. I'll jump on. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office could defer to the judgment of this board. Buttersmean was held for this proposal. There were no concerns raised in that. I'm sorry, Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I don't know if anyone from ONS understands. No, excuse me. We submitted a subcommittee flyers out to about as within 300 feet. You do not receive any feedback. The applicant went on to be with the Oregon Heights neighborhood association, which voted overwhelmingly to support the proposal. I don't know where any concerns at this time. Without that, it will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional comments. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a second? Thank you. This is the assembly. Yes. Ms. Beta-Barraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1772272. With the address of 364 Main Street. If the applicant and or their representative president, will they please explain the case to the board? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anyone present for 364 Main Street? Is my late calendar? Probably. Thank you. We'll go on and then come back later. Yes, please. Hi, I'm here. I'm sorry. Okay. Are you presenting for 364 Main Street? Yes, I'm the only one. I'm sorry. Okay. Are you presenting for 364 Main Street? Yes, I'm the owner of 364 Main Street. And identify yourself, name, address, and then what you're requesting. Sure. Marley Kanda, 364 Main Street, Charles Town, Massachusetts, 02129. We are proposing renovating our basement. Mostly for systems. We have oil heat. We have no AC. We have no French drain. We have no some pump. So we would like to kind of prepare the house for the future. And in doing so. Making all the changes in the basement would also like to finish the basement as a living space for our children. We have two teenage boys. And while we're down there, we would just like to make it habitable space. And it exceeds the floor area ratio, which is why we need to be here. We also sent out. The form to the not sent out, but posted to all neighbors within 300 feet. We have heard no comments back on our proposal. And we are here with you tonight, hoping for approval. So can you clarify what type of living space you're proposing in the basement? Is it like a playroom or like a playroom and then a craft area for the kids? So you can see there's a sitting area and a lounge area. And the back corner, there's a workshop. Both boys like to do a lot of crafts. And that's where we propose. A little sink and a mini fridge down there as well as a toilet. Questions from the board. Yeah. I don't think Jeff Hampton is on correct. Or any. I'm guessing not. Okay. So, you know, reading the recommendations of the BPD. Basically, you know, it says that the your project lies within the the C fraud district. But the work doesn't meet the threshold that requires. C fraud review under article 80. And so. So, you know, I think it's basically the BPD is kind of recommending to. Not approve the project because they're seeing kind of habitable spaces in the basement. But. You know, are you aware that the basement is vulnerable to flooding? Correct. And has it has a flooded since you've been there. It has been damp. There's a rat slab floor. So we have had moisture issues. A lot of it was from a downspout from the neighbors that lost its bottom. And so water was coming in. We have never had standing water in the basement. But as I mentioned earlier, we don't have a French drain system in place. We don't have a sound pump. That is part of the work that we would like to do. To protect the house a little bit more from the rising sea levels. So basically dwellings or habitable rooms are discouraged and kind of vulnerable areas. And so. Madam chair and secretary, the idea that this is a play room. Not really a sleeping quarter. I'm, I'm, I'm okay. Kind of approving the scope of work as long as the owner is aware that. So I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to be vulnerable to flooding. And they should try to mitigate that. And they should not have any bedrooms in the basement. So I just know bedrooms. I just wanted to make those comments. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. I concur with that. Can we have a public testimony? Madam chairwoman and board members. Good evening, Sikki Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. First office is the office. Is that all of the way? No, thank you. Thank you. What's your office, office. Oversaur distribution of an informational flyer to all parcels in a 300 foot radius which solicited no comments. That back on our office. Thank you. Madam chair, there are no additional comments at the moment. With that may have a motion. December. Yes. Miss Betta-Brasa. Yes. Chair votes yes motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you very much all. Next we have case B-O-A 1783484 with the adheres of 100 city hall plaza if the applicant and whether representative of President will they please point to the board. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board Attorney Dirk Small of a business address of 51 Dops and Row. And I'm here today seeking relief in the form of a traditional use permit for our proposed restaurant at 100 city hall plaza. We're here today seeking relief to remove the provisile to this petitioner only, which was given to a prior tenant of that space, which was subway years ago. And now we are seeking to put another takeout restaurant there, La Netta, which is a Taka Ria, and my client owns one at 255 Newbury Street as well. And so again, we are here just to remove the provisile to this petitioner only and grant a new takeout license for the new restaurant that we're proposing. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Joels representing the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services regarding 100 city hall plaza. Our office differs because the board's judgment on this matter. A community process is not required for this type of proposal and we do not expect any community concerns regarding this project. At this time, the mayor's office of the Neighborhood Services differs with boards judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Could that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Madam, a second. Sir. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Sir Griegnye. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1702910 with the address of 93 charter street. If the applicant and though they're representative of present, would they please explain it to the board? Yes, the one Mr. Rueckin. Is this the one you, yeah, we're with John? Yes, Madam Chair. Just wanted to see if there was anyone present. Ms. Rueckin. Your words, ma'am. The note that I have is that the applicant for 93 charter street, what three, send in an email to withdraw her project before the board. Even though somebody has their hand raised. Can I accept the.. Ms. Foster, are you raising your hand for this project? If you are, can you unmute yourself? I don't need to comment now that the this has been withdrawn. So I guess no. Okay. All right. So with that may I have a motion? Motion to withdraw the case. The second. Baraza's second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betapraz. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 175 9889 with the address of 18 Rufflin Square. If the applicants and or their representatives of a presence. Would they please explain to the board? Is this the issue? No. I don't see any air wind partners. I think it's I someone mark. I sent you an invitation to be on the panel section. Hi. Sorry. Are you here for 18 Rutland? Yes. I am. I'm sorry. I thought our architect Joe Holland was going to be representing us on this. But I'm not sure everybody is. I'm actually the owner of 18 Rutland. Okay. Are you prepared to present yourself or do you need a deferral? No, I guess so. We'll present. I mean, we. I think we've submitted the plans. We've submitted notice to all the neighbors. I believe the neighborhood association. Has been supportive because the roof deck is, you know, is back from the street. It's not visible from any of the street views. It's not. And I think it's not necessarily a priority. It's not necessarily a priority. It's smaller than the neighboring roof decks. There's no handhouse or anything. It's just stairs going up to it. Are there questions from the board. No questions is pretty straightforward. So the board in regards to 18 Rutland, the mayor's office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including a distribution of subcommittee flyers around the beginning of October. Our office did not receive any comment from the flyers and they did meet with the Rutland Square Neighborhood Association and received support from the Neighborhood Association as well. At this time, the mayor's office and the neighbor's services will defer to the board's judge around this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Okay. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better Raza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 1-7-4-2622 with the address of 9-17 East Broadway. Is the applicant and or the representative of the president? Will they please explain it to the board? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mark LeCasse, legal counsel for the homeowners, Brandon Beck and Brenna Beck, seeking to change the occupancy of an existing commercial building, which historically has been a real estate office at the corner of East Broadway in P Street, conducting a complete historic renovation of what is quite a lovely property down on that stretch of East Broadway and turning it into a single family residence for the Beck family and therefore children. Plans also include demolition of an old existing garage behind the main structure along P Street and construction of a new garage with a second floor addition on top of the new garage to provide approximately 1,000 square feet of additional living area to be connected to the house with sort of a corridor, which we'll see on the elevations that nicely mirrors the house. Can stop here on this slide. So the lower right hand corner is a photo of the existing structure. It was for many years MCM properties or real estate office and has that large plate glass window on the corner of East Broadway in P and that will be removed and the historic symmetry of the front of the structure will be restored. Next slide. And next slide please. And keep going. These are all existing conditions, elevations. And so the floor plans include living space on the ground floor of the property and bedrooms on the second floor of the existing structure and bedroom area on the second floor above the new garage with a nice hallway connecting the existing structure to the new garage retention of a lovely rear yard area to provide a nice measure of usable open space for the family and parking for one car in the new garage, which is shown here on the upper portion of the plan. We could get to the elevations. I think those most dramatically demonstrate how nice this is. The zoning violations are relatively minor in scope in this part of South Boston. If you add something onto an existing structure, you need a conditional use permit. So for the second floor addition on the top of the garage, it condition a use permit is sought, noting that it is well below the maximum height allowed in the sub district and we are also below the FAR. Let's stop here. So here's an elevation of the front of the building. So on the left hand side you will recall where those play class windows were will be restored to match the window of the station on the right hand side of the building. And that's the existing front door, which will serve as the main entrance on the Broadway side of the home. Next slide. Here is an elevation of the P Street side of the house. So Broadway East Broadway is on the right hand side of your screen and this is as if you're standing on P Street across the street. There's the new single bay garage door. That's the portion of the structure that's being reconstructed. And oops, hold on back to the other one with the second floor on top of the garage. And then that sort of doorway and single window, that's like the connector piece between the existing structure and the new structure garage and above the garage. You'll also see that the roof style and lines are being followed on the new structure to provide that nice symmetry. Next slide. This is an elevation from an adjoining property showing the new garage with the single vehicle and the doors that lead to a nice backyard area. Next slide. Opposite view elevation. Lots of technical drawings. And I believe there are a couple more elevations toward the end that nicely demonstrate the completed view of the property. The other zoning issues are off street parking insufficient for single family dwelling 1.5 is required in the sub district. There's currently a single car bay and we're keeping the single car bay. So that's an insufficient parking issue. The side yard insufficient and the rear yard insufficiency are existing conditions that are not being exacerbated by not only the addition of the garage, but we're actually improving that condition on the P street side because the new garage will be further away from the abutting property than the existing garage. So we're improving the insufficiency on that portion of the property. The other one is an existing condition that's not being exacerbated. With that, I will pause and happy to take any questions from the board. Thank you, Mr. Elkas. Any questions from the board? No, other than I have to agree, it's a really beautiful residential structure. There, we're excited about turning in this. It's very beautiful. There forever. And with that, I'm sorry, go ahead. I mean, doubly, I'd love to share this part of the story is that at our city point, neighborhood association meeting, following a terrific a butter meeting, we did our presentation, the best introduced themselves and their family. And we got a round of applause. And I'm Brenna said, is that good? And I said, I've never had a pause at one of these things ever. So it's been well received in short. Excellent. Would that may have public testimony? Good evening, Ciggy Johnson. With the mayor's office of neighborhood services, this applicant completed the ONS community process or office hosted in a butters meeting on August 5th, I wish in a butter raised concerns about rodent issues and about parking or office received 10 letters of support, three of these letters signed in address in the 300 foot of butters radius. The city point neighborhood association voted to support this application. That background, our office, deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, we have a summary from the office of the counselor, Ethlin. Hi, thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Sydney Scanman from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn, I said a girl on record and support due to the community process. You feedback from neighbors and the city point neighborhood association. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a city point neighborhood association. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Louano Connor, president of the city point neighborhood association and what attorney Mark has said is a very true statement. Appreciate the board. Appreciate the structure and the look of this particular home. This is what we strive for within the city point neighborhood association. We'll have a lot coming before you. So please keep that in mind. We did take a vote. It was unanimous vote to support the project. That has never happened. In my tenure as president. So we're pretty proud of this. We're pretty proud of the architect, the family, the proponent, as well as attorney lookhouse. It was a well, it was a really good effort to come together as a community and to keep our architecture and our housing stock intact. So thank you. It is supported. Thank you. Thank you. There are no additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Yes, madam chair. I would love to put a motion floor of approval. Yeah, a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. You're the manager. First I'll say looks like an excellent project. I'll wish you the best of luck. Sure. Thank you. Thanks. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you kindly. Next we have a B O A 1 7 5 0 6 6 0 with the address of 78 Harvard View Street. It's the applicant and or the representative of president. Will this please plan to board? Good evening, everyone. I am the applicant. I am the also the proponent of the project. I live at 78 Harbour View Street. And I just would like to present my projects. This is a house I just purchased a year ago and I has already had a space for the driveway. And we like to use the space as a driveway is on the side of the house. And I've seen the plant here. You can see we can park three compact cars and we're asking for a permit to do the perform the curb cut in front of the house. And it's a 10 feet curb cut. And there is a, it was really the project was rejected because of a violation exceeding a total level accessory parking spaces. And the open space was not used sufficiently. So I'm asking for relief for this to perform this project. And we have gone through the process of appealing, going through the about a meetings and also the seven-year district, seven-year civic association meeting. And everyone is supporting this project. So they don't have any rejections. I think that any questions from the board? So the only question I have is where it says proposed compact parking space to me that seems like a front-yard parking, which typically is not allowed. So I'm a little bit surprised why the BPD didn't pick that up. That being said, are you okay with having just two tandem parking spaces versus three? That should be acceptable. Yep, two is good this well. Yep, okay, great. Thanks. I don't have any further questions. May I have public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the Mayor's Office of Newborn Services. Regarding 70-year Harbor View Street, our office differs as boards judge from on this matter. A community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting on 825-25 that was attended by one community member who did express some concern about the placement of the driveway on the property, but overall did not have an issue with the curb could proposal part of the project. The applicant was connected with the Columbia Health, Hill, Sam, excuse me, Columbia, seven-hill civic association and received support regarding the proposal. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Newborn Services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one person, a owner. Please, if you can unmute yourself. And so you... Hello, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes. You state your name and address for the record? Yes. My name is Vadim Mirandoni. I'm neighbor, next neighbor to this home, doing this project. And we send you already a opposing letter and supporting documents today to the board. Are you... I'm sorry. Are you in support or opposition of the project? Yes. We oppose the project because our next owner... We... Even, you know, the neighbor has the right to apply, but we cannot support because this is a lot of conflict here. First, as you can see from their proposing, cut plan, they are interfering with our... with our property, because the... The thing that is actually now our fence is on the property line. It's actually one-fifth from the property line. Inside our property, as we mentioned in the... in the opposing letter, this is common, you know, for to prevent any dispute or for maintenance. But now what happened before there were bushes, the pre-honored of this house, he removed bushes and put asphalt and extended even inside our property. And now the asphalt putting pressure through our fence and the fence is filling down. And also, other stuff they put, the lady came here when they bought this house. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments from the owner on this before we proceed? Madam Chair, can I also ask the owner? Yes, the owner. Can I also ask that the owner addresses the encroachment that I am seeing on the survey plot plan that the butter just commented on. So the whole line on this to the rear and the side is encroaching other people's property. They can comment on that. Yes, I... So I did... I'm not sure if this is concern. However, however, because I... You can look at my proposal, the plan. We are only proposing to use our... the land, the piece of land on our property side to use as a driveway space. So we're not using... we're not using part of this property line to include as our parking space. And we go into... we add the property line to kind of separate it. So as you can see, I'm not asking to get... taking space from the neighborhood to be used as a driveway for our... for our purpose. So are you suggesting that the fence that is existing right now? You're going to relocate that fence. Give back... No, that fence belong to the neighbor. We're not doing that. We're creating a new fence. We're not going to be adding a property line. Within our property line. So we're not... We're not using their... we're not using their space for our parking. No, I understand. The property line. The property paper for the concrete papers is exceeding to the other neighbor's fence. So are you telling me that the vinyl fence at the rear and a side does not belong to you. It belongs to your abutters. The pink bar. If you look at the... if you look at the... the... the one the... the vinyl on the back... the back of the house is belong to us. There's no vinyl... there's no vinyl... um... fence on the side. And on the side is a wooden... wooden fence and it belongs to the neighbors. Okay, but the vinyl fence at the rear is yours. Yours. Yes, ours. Yes. And you're drawing shows that you're encroaching the concretebooks that you cut next to the lawn and realization vote the next point. This is the parent. 같이 slashetto. The<|tg|> chких robot. Is there anyone who likes to die? the North and portion of where it says concrete pavers. If you just get closer, if you can zoom in, yeah, zoom in more. Okay, so you can see that your pavers right now is being detailed all the way to your vinyl fence, which extends beyond your property line. Based on the survey. What what paper? The defense in the back is beyond the property line. We can we can take it out or mean this because we didn't know about the how as is so we don't know. We don't know what is supposed to be at the what the property lie at the time. So if they're based on the drawing, it's already past the already past the neighbor. Yeah, we can take it off. Okay, I'll read you know for the questions. That's what I want to hear. Thank you. Without man of emotion. Man and chair, I would like to put forward a motion with two provisels. Emotion. Yeah, correct. Emotion of approval. My apologies. I like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisels. The first one being that we remove one of the proposed parking space. So that you do not have front yard parking. You only have two spaces proposed. And the second proviso is that the project undergoes site plan review with BPD to increase the permimility of the surface. So paying attention to the ground surface to improve permeability. And that's it. Thank you. Okay, I have a second. Second. Mr. Stubbridge. Yes. Mr. Bair Brazo. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Go up, ma'am. Thank you very much. Have a good night. Do have good night, everyone. Next we have case B.O.A. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. We have a case of BPD. You will hear from one team. Yes, sir. My name is Rami Siddani. I am a civil engineer with North County group. Our firm did the architectural and the structural plans for the proposed church at 2018. Bowling Street. We're here to amend the approved plan to have a usable space in the basement of the church. The basement of the church is going to have bathrooms and office. And it is a meeting area for the congregation and also a kitchen. We have the elevator and cap lift to the second floor. The second floor will be the sanctuary for the mezzanines, and this is at the stage where the priest will be standing and preaching. This is the mezzanine which will be on the third level to provide extra seating. This is the front elevation of the church. This is how the church will look like. This is the side in the rear view. This is the 3D demonstration of the inside of the church. It is another angle. These are the details of the bathrooms. These are the details of the windows. They will be installed. The columns are the architectural columns. This is going to be a decorative church. These are just the foundation plan. Footings, column, location, the framing. This is the structural plans. This is the cross section of the building for all the structural members. This is the roof framing. And then the structural analysis at the end. Are the questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. All the work will be conducted in the existing basement. This has not been built yet. The initial plans did not include a usable space of the basement. The basement is at the street level. This will be a new structure. The floor is a new structure. You can actually correct. Okay. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. I'm the doorchester community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of the public and the public. The applicant has completed the community process. The applicant attendants, no concerns were raised. The applicant was presented to greater vote in Geneva neighborhood association. Who voted in support of the proposal? To date our office has received one letter of support from meeting house health association. Thank you for your time. The mayor's office of neighborhood services. I'd like to defer to the board for the decision. Thank you. You may not hear me personally, but 2020 elected prosecutors are being allocated a title and funding they need for money. Thank you for your time.くん The board's request for a motion of approval? by the way, one seven four, nine one four three, with the address of 29 Old Worth Street, is the applicant to end with their representative present with a police plan in the case of the board. Yes, hi, good evening, Madam Chairperson, members of the board. My name is Jonathan Paul. I am the owner of 29 Old Worth, and I'm joined by Robert Breinard, who is with my architectural firm, Joe, the architect. We are seeking relief to add dormers to the rear of our home. That is to add a bedroom and a bath to a condator growing family. The only relief that we're seeking today is on the Florida area ratio. The reason being is that our property is owned for two F5,000, which requires a lot size of 5,000 square feet. Our lot is less than the required square footage, which contributes to the hardship and plays a role in the proposed FIR, exceeding the allowable 0.6 by 0.07. We are making no changes to the roof height, to the light or the views of our neighbors. In addition to the relief that we're seeking, this is a 120 year old home that we love daily. We're replacing an aging enclosed back patio with an exterior patio. We're doing a lot of internal work, interior to the home to bring the home more modernised enough to date. We've received extensive support from our neighbors. I've included in our application letters of support from our budding neighbors and our downstairs neighbor. And we have been in front of and presented our plans to the neighborhood services for the City of Boston, the Jamaica Plain Association, and the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. So with that, I'm happy to take your questions and hope I can answer them. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Beberry. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abutters meeting facilitated on August 7th. That was very lightly attended with three abutters present and a voice recording from the current first floor of tenant. All the buddars present and recorded are in support of the proposal and the family. Next, the proposal was presented Jamaica Plain Association on September 8th, who voted not to oppose. And Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council on September 17th, who voted in support of the proposal. Today, our office has received one letter from Jamaica Plain Association stating their stance of not opposing the proposal. Thank you for your time in the Ms. Office and they would serve as a selected member of the Board of Education. Thank you. No additional comments? Will that may have a motion? I'd like to put for a motion of approval. There is second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. It was better browser. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, motion carries. The looks are. Thank you very much, everyone. Have a good evening. Next, we have case. We have case. B.O.A. 1766722, with the address of 61, we must road. It's the applicant and all their representative present. Would they please explain to the board? Good evening, Madam Chair and Board members. Robert Brainer with Joe the Architects for this project as well. Our project is just to essentially replace an existing application. We are going to be building a new project. We are going to be building a new two-story project that includes basement space. Much like the last project, this application and property is severely undersized for the lot district. That resulted in the hardship of the floor area ratio again. Essentially the new proposed addition is going to be built in the exact same footprint as what's there currently. It's just going to become two stories. Additionally, on the project, not subject to zoning relief is just interior reconfiguration and renovations of kitchen and other living spaces. So if anybody has any questions, happy to answer them. Thank you. Are there questions from the ward? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Jamaica Plain Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, and the applicant has been able to provide the necessary support for the proposed and changes to the property. With one of the voices, they are concerned with the aesthetics of the proposal as they can view it from the rear yard and inquired of the materials, windows and colors that may be used as well as a concern for density and a precedent being set for the neighborhood. Next, the proponent presented Jamaica Plain Association on September 10th and Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council on September 15th, where they voted in support of the proposed. packet.من product. Thank you for your time in the�ciaV09. psy backyard. Thank you. You have a motion? I would like to put forward a motion of approval. Second? Stemberg. Yes. It is better for a browser. Yes. very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 176, 614 with the address of eight Preston Road. If the applicant and or their representative present, will they please explain to the board. Hi, good evening. I'm Anadbek Naftigal from the Irkubinov Architect in West Struxbury, 82 Spring Street. I'm here to present Eric and Moira. The owners, this is a single family detached home in West Struxbury. The homeowners are seeking to finish the existing basement and basically extending the living spaces. We are the finished area will be around 1000 square foot so we are above the allowed FAR and the only violation is FAR. There is no expansion of the building. We have a decent height, 6 foot 10 for the finished to finish the living spaces that they would like to do is the homeowners musicians so we're going to the music room and the gym and some living spaces. Pretty much wraps up the project. Any questions from the board? Eric Nud may I have public testimony? Good evening, Sikhi Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office oversaw distribution of an informational flyer to a butters in a 300 foot radius which solicited no comments to our office. That background we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Turn that way. The additional comments. Okay, will that man have a motion? Man and chair, I like to put for a motion of approval. The second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Go up, ma'am. Thank you. We did me. Next we have case and be aware. 172. 1220. With the address of 128 Gardner Street. If the applicant and the represent and the represent or present, will they put flags of the board? Hi, I'm as you can. Can you do so please? No, we cannot hear you. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes, sir. Oh, great. Good evening, madam. Chair and members of the board. My name is Angela musto and I'm with my wife, darling. We are the owners of 128 Gardner Street and I'm proposing a renovation and a change of occupancy to a two family. At 128 Gardner Street, the adjusting house was built in 1950 as a Cape style home, which did have two floors of living space on 6,782 square feet. The proposed house will keep the existing foundation and some of the structure, plus an additional unit footprint is being proposed in the backyard area attached to this house. By keeping the same foundation and utility infrastructure, I will greatly reduce the amount of building construction and noise impact to the neighborhood. The new project when completed will be a gable and attached duplex colonial home. The total square footage will be approximately 3,600 square feet over two floors. And in the front, you want to have a covered porch 18 feet wide by 8 feet deep in the back unit will have a 10 by 12 open deck. The attic will have a recess deck with the storage area in the attic, but it will be unfinished. And there will be a mastery parking for four vehicles and open green space in the back front inside area with professional landscaping shrubs and hardscape. The reason for this change is for occupancy change is for family use. Gardner Street has a beautiful residential community close to access to many wonderful places we enjoy, such as Millennial Park, Ice Gating, of course, the tree line parkway. This part of Gardner Street does have other two families within steps of this home and across the parkway. There are multi-unit apartment buildings that were recently built and are currently being built. I would just like to mention that at the neighborhood meetings I did receive support from both of my butters. Thank you so much for allowing me to present this and I will answer any question that you may have. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? Here none, ma'am, public testimony. See you answer with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted an abundance meeting on August 20th at which no concerns were raised. The West Roxbury Neighborhood Council voted to support this application. With that background, our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Will that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform motion of approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stubbridge. Yes. Ms. Betapuraza. Yeah. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you, members. I appreciate it. Next, we have case B-O-A 175-7994 with the address of 51 to 53 Brookline Avenue. If the applicant to and or their representative present, will they please explain to the board? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. The record, this is David Ingram, attorney at Gulston, Soros located at Lumpos, Office Court in Boston. I'm here on behalf of the applicant Orange Braille media and trying to check dollar value from Orange Braille. We are seeking a conditional use permit for digital sign. We have a brief presentation and I'll turn it over to Jake to speak first. I'm sorry. I believe these are the plans we submitted. We had a slide deck as well. Is it possible to turn? Yes. Thank you. Great. Thank you and hello, everyone. I'm Jake Dullavalli, Development Director for Orange Braille media. Thank you for hearing us this evening. That page right there is perfect. As you can see, Orange Braille media operates a number of signs throughout the Boston area. All of our digital signs go through a full BGDA design review and received BPDA license. As did this sign located at 51 Brookline. Next slide, please. Orange Braille media practice itself on not only architecturally integrating into the community, but also supporting and collaborating with local community nonprofits. Here you can see a number of the organizations we have worked with in the city of Boston. Next slide, please. And here is a list of letters to support from some of those local organizations we have worked with in support of this project at 51 Brookline. Thank you, and I will pass it back to David. Thanks, Jake. So the proposed sign would be located over the roof of the Salis pizza building at 51 Brookline Avenue in the Fenway neighborhood. Go to replace the three static billboards located on the roof currently, as shown in these photos. In terms of approvals, the BPDA has approved the design of the sign in Orange Braille. It's also an execute a license agreement with the BPDA, which includes operating requirements as well as an annual license fee in revenue share. Regarding zoning, these sign is located in the lands on street and in the district, the boundaries which are shown on that the prior slide. This district was created specifically to log digital signs by conditional use permit, and a conditional use permit is the only zoning relief required for the sign. This slide shows a runnerings of the sign from different from brick brick, brick line avenue. As you can see, the signs are oriented to our pressuring viewpoints, and no push. The sign extends over the sidewalk. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here none, ma'am, for the testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members. So you're Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process, or office hosted, and a butters meeting on September 23rd. The site does not have many residential butters, but members of various stakeholder organizations in the vicinity attended the meeting. There were a couple of concerns raised about the billboard possibly promoting gambling or alcohol. Various businesses and nonprofit organizations in the area have sent eight letters of support to the board. The Kenmore Square Association is in support of this application, and the applicant also met with a Fenway Civic Association. That background our office differs judgment to the board. Thank you. I'm not sure if the ball's so ventino, I used to begin on this project. If not, we have somebody from the sound courage, please. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is meant to courage with Councillor Sharon Durkins' office. The Councillor is in support of this proposal. We've been in contact with the proponent as well as many neighborhood associations and the butters who have also given support for this proposal. Thanks so much. Okay, Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Will that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a provisal that the project undergoes BPD design review for signage and compliance. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Have a good night. Thank you very much. Next, we have a rediscussion case scheduled 5 PM. This is 4-case BOA-176-9103 with the address of 26 Wyndham Street. If the applicant and or their representative of a present, would they please fly into the board? Hi, I'm Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Mike Ross from the law from up in Slobell. I'm here with my client, the owner of this property, Francis Hwang. This is a proposal to add a two-story addition to the rear of an existing one family home. The addition is consistent with other additions in the neighborhood and will make better utilization of the lot and open space on the property. If you go to the site plan, the next slide, the next slide after this one, there you go. Thank you. The site plan shows how the rear addition will line up directly behind the existing house and the additional place and existing shed and pathways so as to consolidate all remaining open space to the left side of the rear yard, thereby optimizing the space for maximum usage. We showed some context photos here just to give you a sense of the backyards of our within the block we're in and how there's hardscape and structures and sheds and additions along there. There's a very similar construction project that was done on the corner of Hopedale in Sorrento almost exactly as what we're proposing here. We were excited for FAR, side yard and rear yard. The BPDA called those dimensions in character with a surrounding block. We're going to remove the existing mudroom in order to make a connected rear structure. I guess I just say that the elevations that you're looking at here, they show how the addition will sit behind the existing structure, making it mostly unvisible from the street. And we submitted six letters of support from nearby residents who live right in this neighborhood and the BPDA is recommending approval of this project. I'll pause there. See if I can answer any questions. Any questions from the board? So this is going from one family to two family zoning or one family plus ADU? Yeah, it's an ADU really. It's not going. Yeah, I mean it's fine. The ADU in the zoning doesn't allow for bump outs. So if you do a bump out like this with an ADU, they don't even call an ADU because it doesn't technically exist within the zoning. I think this city's kind of in the process of fixing that. But right now the only ADU in the zoning code is if you build it into your existing structure. Right, as a right. As a right. As a right. As a right. So is it a two family? No, it's a one family. Right, but so I'm but it looks like two units. So is it going from a one family to two family? It is not. It would be going from a one family to one family with an ADU. The use category would not change on this. It's really an extension off the rear of this project. You know, you might have you might because right now the right now the violations are side yard, rear yard, floor area, but not in the use category. So I think that so I think there's there's probably an errand of violation. Is is Caroline on? Yes. Oh, Caroline, can you can you clarify? Am I matching that correctly that the violations are assuming that it's just a one family, but it's not. It's either a one family plus ADU, but it's not mentioned, but it's really like a two family. As as Mike Ross just said that you don't really have an ADU as a right. So I don't know if the violation was not caught as in use. Can you can you expand on that? I can only say that the board can grant relief for only what's listed in the refusal letter. This could be something I can check back on tomorrow with the plans examiner, but as of right now, the board can only vote on what was stated in the refusal letter. Let me try if I could Ms. Beterraza. If this was an ADU and if this was in front of you, it would still say one family. It wouldn't say one family plus ADU. It wouldn't say two family. It would just say one family. The reason why we're cited is because we're not an ADU that's built within the structure like in the basement or in the attic, which if that was in front of you, it would still just be a one family. So it's you're kind of picking up on what I was saying earlier. I think there's no way that this would be cited as a two families when I'm trying to say. I think can you tell me why it's a parent front of us as a rediscussion? Well, because it's the owner of this property is looking to put an extension, which is extensively what this is. Sorry, Mr. Ross, what rediscussion was because it didn't get to go to go. I'm so sorry. Because what? Say it again. It wasn't equal to go the last time because our interpretations, Hansey took like two hours. It took like an hour and a half. I asked for minutes here. I asked for it to be deferred last time because I was getting married, believe it or not. So that that is why I'm back here on a rediscussion structure. There was no issue in this browser. So Madam Chair, I think if it's okay with you, I'd like to put a motion to defer to the full board because I know that BPD would be there and I know at least Caroline can check in with the client examiner. I think this is really important and I just would like to say because I do think that we are encouraging this type of development to supply additional housing and I think it's important that the full board and Jeff Hampton to BPD is there to just answer some of my questions. I think it'll be helpful because as we see more projects potentially come in front of us, it would be good to have that clarity from BPD. So with that, when you're ready for a motion, to recommend that. Okay, well, I'm going to take public testimony. Yeah. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor is offering to defer to the judgment of this board. So back information, the community process, our office, Helen and butters meet on August 19th. In that meeting, there were concerns expressed from some of butters regarding the proposed setback. I think specifically the rear setback feeling that it was going to set a dangerous precedent for that area and lead to more bill more households expanding back towards the property line. The Austin Civic Association echo those concerns and also express that they would send in a letter of opposition. I have not directly seen that letter, but that was what was expressed in an email that I saw. And as you heard from the applicant, they also have letters of support that the board should have access to that information will defer to the board. Thank you. Okay, next we have I think I'm not sure if it's part of the team, but the name I think he was Jean one. The person the first part. Yes, yes, this is Jean one. I live on 52 hotel. So, hope tale street is next to a window. So it's like a three minute walk to Francis House. So I am fully supporting this expansion as a ideal. I mean, maybe here for more than seven years, I realized that it was a critical housing shortage in the, I mean, in this neighborhood, ending the great Boston area and a lot of people trying to find housing by the current and also existing homeowners trying to expand their area to get more additional space. And this area is relatively old. It's built over a hundred years ago. The house size kind of small. So I think that I know that Francis work with his architect to make a very good design to still have his all the consideration to the neighbors. So this is a I know that this is a good approach. So as a neighbor, I fully supporting his plan. Yeah, thank you very much. Okay, next we have Brzee Anderson. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi, my name is Priscilla Anderson. I live at 30 windm street. So I'm two houses away from this property. I am opposed to the rear setback that is requested for relief and I'm concerned about safety issues. The existing structure is 26 feet from the rear and the request is for just three feet between the new residential structure and the back fence. This is narrow even or even then the four foot minimum for smaller accessory structures and the current accessory structure is even further away from that. So my concerns are that the three foot width of the rear setback would impede firefighting access and would impede the ability of the engineered earth in the back of all of our homes to absorb water from floods and we are a neighborhood that is at a near term flood risk. And thank you for considering my comments. Thank you. And next we have Ico to yes, can you hear me? Yes. I'm a director but I'm at 24 windm street and my concerns are similar to Priscilla's. But in addition to that, I know that all the neighbors backyards around here are of a similar size. And many of them said if we allow one to go in then everyone will go in which would increase the density significantly in the neighborhood. Not to mention the fact that if we should have a fire, especially in this type of neighborhood, which is all wooden homes, it would spread rather quickly throughout the neighborhood even though we do have a fire station that they're taking to be here in three minutes. But as you all know, a neighborhood of all wooden structures near itself can catch on fire and probably lose the whole neighborhood. My concern of course is because the increased density that is going to occur in many neighbors that I have talked to have said if he gets it then I'm going to want the same thing. So which of course would thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, can I respond quickly? Yes. Just to say that the new structure removing the old shed and the realigning of it, it's actually almost exactly the same open space as before. The existing open space is 495 square feet. We are proposing 486 square feet. We're talking about what a 9, an 11 square foot loss from this new structure. And the Boston Planning Board has commented on the rear yard setback that it's three feet from the rear yard. And they said that although this is a substantial shortfall, similar conditions are common in the neighborhood, which is why I tried to show you the backyards of the existing properties. You have every. It's common with sheds. I looked at those drawings. It's common when there's the typology of a garage shed at the rear. But it's not common to see a residential structure three feet from the rear yard. So I just want to provide that clarification. Okay, well, you know, the BPD, you know, didn't just limit it to sheds. And it's not just limited to sheds in this very block. In this block, you have additions that go off the back of these properties. They're small lots. And throughout this neighborhood, you see a lot of these additions. This addition is small and tasteful and manicured. It's not, you know, it's not trying to take the whole back yard. It's just taking half of that backyard and only taking additional 11 square feet. Thank you, Mr Ross, given Ms. Bener-Braz's expected motion, I think we can save this for the full board. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'm just listening to the residents and the butters. I think it's a very good idea to bring this project forward to the full board. So with that, I'm going to put a motion of deferral for the next full board hearing. And that would be November 18th. Correct. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bener-Braz. Yes. Chairwork's yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Have a good night. Thank you. See you then. All right, good night, everyone. Have a good night, everyone. Thank you.