 you you the city of Boston's only board of appeal hearing of March 26th 2024 is now in session this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of the virtual hearings until March 2025 this hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform this hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing the information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition the order of comments is as follows elected officials representatives of elected officials and members of the public which share may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints require for that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public were most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on your PO please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform click it again in your hands to go down when the host sees your hand you will receive a request to unmute yourself select yes and you should be able to talk if you are connected to the hearing by telephone please press star nine to raise and lower your hand you must press star six to unmute yourself after you received the request from the host those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can be provided comment in the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record do not raise your hand before the relevant addresses call or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay Mr. Stembridge. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Mr. Valencia. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning. Ms. Wewell. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Mr. Collins. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Ms. Pennato. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning. Okay just a note that we are a six member board and anyone wishing an administrative deferral is free to request one. Thank you Madam Chair. I will start off with the approval of the hearing minutes. Good afternoon Madam Chair. We have minutes from March 12th of this year that are approval. I will make a motion that the minutes are approved. May I have a second? Okay. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pennato. Yes. There are also votes yes the motion carries. Next we will begin with the extensions scheduled for 9.30 a.m. So may I introduce Mr. Stembridge? So I just want to note that for the board all of these extensions are for first time requests for one year extensions. And if the board is so inclined to make a motion to approve the extensions as they will be read into the record that would be. So we will be open to that. Unless anyone has any specific questions about any of them. I'm going to move the mask there. I'm ready to record. Is there a second? Second. I mean, okay. I will ask Mr. Stembridge to read the rollout to record. Is that correct? Sam or should I continue the motion first? Let's have them read them into the record madam chair. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. The first three add is case B08659702 with the address of 86 to 88 normal Washington. If I do correct me madam chair, this is the answer. I'm going to just read them all as is. Okay. Next we have case B081101473. Sorry. Let me interject. Can you just read what they're requesting and the time period, you know, what they're requesting relief until. So that's what we're approving. So relief until May 4th, 2025, etc. Does that make sense? We'll see. Okay. So again, so if I go back to the first one, case B08659702, the address of 86 to 88 north Washington, which is last in part one year extension, not to be granted until May 4th, 2025. Next we have case B081101473 with the address of 473, a really in the street, which again, I asked it for a one year extension until April 8th of 2025. The next we have, excuse me, is B08940697 with the address of 1102 to 1106 are Blue Hill Avenue. We'll see if I can get the address of the number one year extension requested until May 7th, 2025. Next we have case B081183158 with the address of 99 Maverick Street, which is actually for one year extension until August, 25th of 2025. Next we have case B08103830 with the address of 25 New England Avenue, which is asking for again, a one year extension until June 30th of 2025. Finally we have case B08103831 with the address of 151 Spencer Street, which is asking for a requesting and extension until June 30th of 2025. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. So the motion was made in seconded, so I'll continue with the vote, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Conato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. Next we will go on to Board Final, Operator Case, schedule for 930. This is case B081455681 with the address of 2Copper Smith Way. Is the applicant and the representative, will they explain case to the Board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Richard Collins, with the business address of 245, Sumner Street and East Boston, the applicant and Tishner, your keynote development. Madam Chair, the Board may recall recently they had approved this project for a four-story three-minute residential dwelling at 2Copper Smith Way. A number of items under Article 53 were cited including insufficient lot size. The Board voted unanimously grant the request of relief. We completed the design review with the Boston Planning and Development Agency as required by the proviso. When we had submitted the matter to ISD for a permit, we were cited for an additional item that was not included in the either regional or choose letter for this project. That was the lot area for additional dwelling unit was not cited. However, as I have said before, the My Communication Board and the Inspectorial Services Department, that violation was correctly not cited because the lot size for this property was below the minimum lot area that would be required anyhow. The Board could not grant relief for this project without granting a variance from the minimum lot size requirement, which is 2000 square feet. This lot is below that. The provision, as I've argued in the past, the provision for a lot of air for additional dwelling area really deals with the times when you have a lot that's between 2000 and 3000 square feet for proposed uses of three families or essentially the maximum number of units you could allow in that sub-district. As I've mentioned to ISD, this is all basically academic. At this point, the recommendation by the Boston Planning and Development Agency would eliminate a minimum lot size for this district, but also eliminate the requirement for additional lot area for dwelling units. In consultation with Council for ISD, they believe that it was appropriate to just present this as more final arm in request of the Board, confirm that all necessary relief has been granted and that no additional relief is necessary and have an answer to the Board. Thank you. Any questions from the Board? Okay, hearing none, may I have a motion? A motion to approve, right? Because you have this was missed and it's just sort of cleaning up the relief here. So motion, don't you approve? Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wiel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pignato. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Good luck. Now we'll move on to the recommendations. Excuse me from the recent subcommittee meeting. I will read the recommendations and give a brief status of them and make a motion to approve the more effort. I will read the recommendations and give a brief status of them and then we will start with the recommendations. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright. Five. Okay. Five. We have the address of 45 on Ellen Road, which was, next we have case B O A 15 5 07. Five nine of the address of O 40iz. Uh. Which was withdrawn, uh. case, B-O-A-155-01, 75 with the address of 152 La Selle Street, which was a pool. Then we have case, B-O-A-154-76, the source of the address of 31, Pelton Street, which was a pool with BPA design review, which was a pool with the address of 32 La Selle Street, which was a pool. And those were the recommendations coming out of the supplement. Thank you, Mr. Stonebridge. You may have a motion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would approve of the self-improving. Second, Mr. Stonebridge. Yeah. Mr. Williams, yeah. Yes. Mr. Buebombe. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Hano. Yes. Air modes, yes, motion carries. With that, we will move on to the newsmeek. I get to the right point. The hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. First we have. Before we begin, we will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this time frame. I have a question. Please proceed. Sorry, Madam Chair. We have. There is a hand that's going up and down. It just went down. I apologize. No, Madam Chair. Yes. So with that, we will move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30. We will begin with case B-O-A, 156-239-3. With the address of 735-745 River Street. This is an article for any case. It's the applicant and or their representative was present. Will they explain to the board, please? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm the chairman of the board of the 20 next is the will on the Durham and Quilt emailer and handling zoning and permanent attorney for the project. What would be today is John Garland from JG architecture and design. I thought they are architect as well as Dr. Gene Bonay and his son Cliff Bonay, who are the property owners of the developers. Next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. This is the team who I just referenced. The family legacy project. The Bonays are not your prototypical developer. The 745 River Street portion of the project. This is a combined project for 735 and 745 River Street. And the 745 River Street portion of the overall site has been owned by Dr. Bonay for over 20 years. And it is the home of his long time medical practice with the high park health associates. As you can see here, which brings community health services and specialists to an underserved community. Next slide, please. This is just some more background on them. Dr. Bonay was born in Haiti. His practice focuses on cardiovascular disease and diabetes. He was recognized in 2018 by the Boston City Council for a significant contribution to his community. Next slide. Again, just showing some background on the site and the applicant. Next slide. And again, showing what I just mentioned. So I just wanted to provide some background to the board. Next slide, please. And they also recently purchased the adjacent site at 735 River Street to include in the overall project, which you'll see in a moment. And what it likes to do now is pass it over to John from Garland, who is our project architect. And taking briefly through our presentation. John, I think your on you want to take over? Yeah, thank you Nick. Can you all hear me? Yes. Okay. Okay, excellent. Good morning everyone. Next slide, please. So this is just a series of existing conditions. Photographs, as you can see, going up the hill on River Street and the site in question is where the mature tree is. And you also have the existing building, the medical clinic to the left and the auto use to the right there. Next. This is from the reverse angle going back down River Street. And you can see the adjacent or the corner street at Foreign Street. So this is a corner lock condition. And you'll see in the proposed tower addressing that architecture with. This is a bit further down Foreign Street. A good deal of our proposal does create enhanced public ground streets, cape improvements, which you'll see in the further in the drawings. Next. A little bit more of the site condition. Next, this is down midway through Thorn. This is a condition as you're walking along the sidewalk up toward River Street or your own River Street. And you can see the existing health clinic there to the right hand side. Next. And then this is what we're calling a passageway. It currently exists between the auto use that we plan to improve right there on the left that's 735. And then existing for story of Parkman Building to the right. Next. So this is our existing current day site plan of overlay with the proposed. So you can see underneath is the smaller footprint of the existing building. And then you can also see the auto repair both in the gray. And then you also see overlayed on top. How we are consolidating the lot with this proposal block plan. And proposing the new building to front on River Street and Thorn Street with an L or a diagonal shaped parking tray at surface at grade toward the rear of the site. Next. In terms of our numbers and program, we are proposing a 40 unit residential apartment complex, 18 1 beds, 15 2s, and 7 3s. We are also proposing a little over 4,700 square feet of medical office space within the total lot area of 18,000 square feet. This comes under article 80 small project review being under 50,000 square feet total FAR 2.61. And then we're also proposing 26 off street parking spaces, 14 or standard 12 or compact, a 1 to 1 bike parking ratio. And then to the right you will see our IDP inclusionary development policy mix of seven units for 17 and a half percent IDP. Next. Nick, I'd like you to take it over this slide. Yeah, absolutely. Thanks, Sean. And so there is some Zoli relief that's required for this project. I will say it's uniquely trying to shape the located site as you saw. It's got farms and just on both River and Thorn streets. And a lot of the zoning requirements that are the zoning that's needed as a result of that oddly and unevenly shaped lot. And a lot of that specifically supports the Zoli relief from fire for this project due to the site constraints. The MFAR use isn't allowed use. We are in a MFAR zone of sub-duster. So the use is allowed. We do, technically we do need to use variants for the health. I was an expanded and improved health. I have this location. It's a pretty existing on conformity. Like I said, it's been there for many years, but the plan is to obviously make a modern bigger and have the ability to serve the community better. So, you know, there is a lot of new needs to the site. It's just not a typical triangular shape site. It's got a lot of stuff. Toography, site constraints, unique shape, and frontages on multiple roads. But I'm happy to go over that some more detail with their own questions. Next slide. John, do you want to go back? Yes. So here we have a couple of lenses at the architecture. We wanted to create a building that's responsive to the neighborhood. It has a clear base, middle, and top. As you can see with materiality that's consistent with the neighborhood and a punched window rhythm at the top floor. At the base there in the corners you can see the entrance to the medical clinic. And that's how we're addressing the corner law and sort of the flat iron profile of the building from this angle. Next. This is a broader view looking at the building from Thorn Street. There's a four-story apartment building just behind us where this view is taken. And you can see how we're addressing open space for the residents on top of the parking trade with a large, gracious outdoor roof deck. That can be accessed at the second floor, once you're at the residential unit space. The ground floor in the back there is sort of back of house space for the medical clinic. And you can see the stack vertical rhythm of windows that again is consistent with the area. And then we're also proposing an employee sized landscape buffer zone right in the foreground right along Thorn Street. Next. This is a view from River Street. You can see the META bus going by for context. And then we have a series of bay windows to give the architecture some relief and break down the scale. And we're also thinking about engaging a local artist in the area to create some mural expressions at the ground floor of the building. Next. Nick back to you. The last sign that is just the zoning again. I'm a free decide I'm happy to go over this but a lot of the zoning leaders due to the site and sites and shrinks. Not only parking, but a lot of the benefits are required as we're solving that. I think that's it. Madam investment. We go to the next slide. Thank you slide. You can see the imagery of this great building coming down River Street. And I would just say that chair. You know this will help the long term by ability and violence to the site. It's a health clinic and also auto. You know, one is the auto body shot service use that's you know that cars are all site. And they purchased that site and were included as artists development to provide that upgraded medical clinic. And then I think Jonathan did mention that I know sometimes the board does ask there is a 17.5% affordability component. I'm including five units that the typical 70% of this is a rental building. One unit of 50% AMI and one unit of 90% AMI. So there's a mix of AMIs there as well as you know over. I need to be a 13% was seven weeks. So thank you very much. Happy to answer your questions. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I might have missed this where is the parking the driveway. It will be on. John I could take this quickly parking if you go off and chair off of the Thorn Street. So it's not off in the River Street. If you scroll on Madden, that's what you're doing. You can see a variety of perfect. You can see the arrows coming in and out rather than existing current kind of. We're just relocating it off a little bit further off of the private passenger way, but we can see on the right hand side. So we worked hard with the BBA neighborhood to provide enough parking, but also make sure it wasn't coming off River Street, which is obviously a busy thoroughfare and talking in off of the Thorn Street, which is a much dead end street and much quieter. Thank you so much questions from the board. I think it's a great project certainly much improved over the existing conditions there. I applaud the IDP units. I guess, Bill, questions, what do you expect to start construction? So, I think that's always an important question. Ms. Pignato and Ms. Albusino. Again, they're not typical developers. They are operating the health clinic on the site now. They will find a location for it during construction. I think the OBS start construction as soon as they can get financing, but they're committed to getting that and working on that. They've got a lot of discussions with finance and banks as they can make sure that they're able to move forward on the project. So, the OBS, we have some back-end work to do with the BBA and other agencies, but the OBS, you know, that they will be able to start construction within the next few years. Thank you. Thank you. All the questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Cloner, and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. This proposal went through robust BBA-led community process, following positive community meetings. We understand that residents were pleased with the, with the fields and improvement to the existing site, as well as the in-broad health planning, which will benefit residents in that area. We received one letter of support from the Bell-Mell Family Neighborhood Association, which is the Acro-Cybit Group in this area, unaware of any concerns at this time, and that would like to serve to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Cruz? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Gabriel Cruz, from Council of the Penn's Office. You can also add to the board that he is in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How are you doing? I know. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is minor for us, from the Senate and the Carpenters Union. We'd like to go over to follow this project. Great. Thank you. I'm Chris. I sent a message to unmute you. Hi, everyone. Chris Hernandez-Lornell. Speaking on behalf of GBM Court Bomeo, the butter, we're incredibly excited about the Bonaise project here. Very supportive of their vision, great design, fantastic project, and certainly a tremendous improvement over the current auto-bond use today. So I just wanted to speak in strong support of this project as a butter. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise sounds? No additional raising as Madam Chair. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Here none may have a motion. A motion to approve. We don't need BPD and design, or here's a separate play, right? That's right. Sorry we've been going through our relating Mr. Collins, so I may have true what design review, so you can do continue design review if you'd like. Yeah, that's not. Motion to approve continued design. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Congratulations and good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have case B08. 1563863 with the address of 1702. My park and this is also an article 80 case. Is the applicant and board representative would explain to the board, please? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Attorney John Fulgini here on behalf of this development proposal at 1702. I park out and you in high park. With me this morning is Tom Garrity who is the owner of the property together with David Fried who is our team architect. The proposal is a 202230 square foot lot. It's located in the local industrial zoning sub district of the high park neighborhood. The proposal is approximately 350 feet from the rebuild commuter rail station. In this development, we'll replace a former auto junkyard. The proposal is to construct a new four-storey residential building with 44 condominium units, 38 below grade parking spaces, 50 bicycle spaces, and over 4,000 ground floor commercial space. This proposal underwent an extensive article 80 process and would unanimously approve by the BPD-8 board this past August. This proposal will have 32 one bedroom units and 12 two bedroom units. The one bedroom units average approximately 761 square feet. The two bedroom units average approximately 910 square feet. This development is truly TOD being situated adjacent to the Reveal Commuter Rail Station. Additionally, this proposal will provide 17% affordability allowing for seven home ownership units. Also, the development team throughout the process work together with the BPD-8 transportation. The city's disability's office and the BPD to widen the roadway by allocating a significant amount of our property for the benefit of the city and its residents. This allows for much wider sidewalks, bike lanes, and street trees. We've also committed $10,000 donation to the Boston Parks Department to benefit the Laconal Park, which is located near this proposal. With that, I'll turn it over to David Fried to walk to the designs and we want to thank you for having us here this morning. Yes, good morning. My name is David Fried and I'm an architect at Chew & Company. And to John's point, we work with the BPD-8. As they identified improvements they wanted to make on the Hyg Park Avenue and pushed our building back to create a much nicer pedestrian experience with street trees, a much wider sidewalk, a plenty better for the building as well as bike lanes. Next slide, please. We have John's M38 garage parking spaces that are accessed on the left side of the building. Next slide, please. We have sort of a mezzanine with the commercial space of about 4,000 square feet. Next slide, please. Our first floor plan shows we have a lobby. We have a very generous bike room on our first floor and we have a roof deck. We have over 3600 square feet of roof deck space, open space for the other residents on what the first floor and on the roof. Next slide, please. Basically, the building is organized around the double-rowed in quarter. Next slide. Keep going, please. And then finally, on the very top floor, we set back with a generous roof deck. Next slide, please. This is an image of our front elevation and side elevation. The building will be a brick building with brick spandrels that are stacked running bond. We'll have fiber-spant panels and on the backside, there's going to be a more industrial character with corrugated side. And without that, that's the end of the presentation. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes, ma'am. Two questions they have. What is the potential use for the space that you are building here? And also, what is the AMI from the two of the seven from the board from one of the two units? I'll get the AMI first. I'm going to see the AMI's own ownership, so the 80% AMI on the condominiums and with respect to the... When you apply ISD, you have to list what the proposed use would be for commercial space. So we put general... I think it was general retail business. So we're going to look for a local business owner who may want to relocate into a new building with upgraded space and things like that. So that's where our goal is. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Here in Nunman, about the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The corner, new and with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor is also deferred to the judgment of this board. This project went through robust BPA-led community process starting in the... A couple of meetings in the spring of last year. There were members of the HPNA that were in attendance of those meetings. Where a lot of feedback was given. We're unaware of any serious concerns that this time have been referred to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. James, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Ian McCruz from Council of Patten's Office. Councilor, would you like to go on record? How do you use and support of this project? Thank you. Slider? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm in the board of mine, I'm raised with a car from the senior. We're letting the board record and support of this project. I have a car that I wouldn't raise, 10, 6, 7, 6, 4. Okay. You're on the list. I'm not sure if you're looking to get testimony. I have no additional raiseings. Okay. Thank you. Without may have a motion. I'm going to approve with continued BPA design review. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, this is the butter that had their hand raised that wanted to speak. Okay. I'm sorry. We couldn't hear you previously. Can you please proceed? Hi, Madam Chair. I hope you can hear me. I didn't hear you. Yes, we can hear you. Thank you. Thank you. This is a very much like the I-Fox neighborhood association. We have been greatly supportive of the exterior of the building, which is a brick, and we can't understand metal from places. And we just got to what we heard at one time there was a possibility that they were going to change the exterior, but then there was a change back again to what is we at home, the basement in the metal. We just would like to know if we could have a provides zone. So, we have the exterior remain as the plan is presented to the board today. And just because it went on, there was a thought of a change. The other thought, you know, it's across the street, a huge proposal. Or once it had condominiums, you know, went before this board for approval with condominiums. Then they changed their mind, and the BPD did not bring it before this board. So, if the BPD agreed that they could go all apartments, no condoms. So, we would appreciate it as it's presented today, this is a condominium building. If they could be a proposal that this remained condominiums. We don't have a degree to the total world, but just because of our basic experience of brought to street recently. That's true. Thank you. Thank you. And the final slide is on high-park historical society in the T5 Park beautiful organization. Trasers, those cobblestone walls that front these apartments. We understand that this prevent secondary partners plan. We would like to know BPD could perhaps find a way to implement those historic walls. WPA walls, NFDF, R, R, R, labor industry program back in the 30s. And they could just, if we would like to know if there's any way that those could be implemented into this plan. If not, preserve and store it somewhere else maybe that high-park could use in another location. It could go into this walls and historic. And so, with definitely those two proposals early and those thoughts without a wrong, would be appreciate. Thank you. By the point. Thank you. Mr. Bojini? I was just stressed that, you know, to Mr. Martin's point, we have, the building is going to be built as it looks right now. But as you guys all know on the sport, we have to go to continue BPD's down reviews. So that is the day of realm, not ours. And the same thing goes for, you know, any sort of adjacent walls or anything like that. So we'll work directly with the BPD. So I think most of what Mr. Martin raised in his concerns are taking care of through the BPD's end review process. And since Mr. Hampton is here, I'll trust you'll pass those feedback back to the project manager and any other applicable staff. Thank you. Okay. Was that, can you restart your motion, Mr. Collins? Thank you. Yeah, I can motion to approve. I'll continue BPD's down to the room. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Ronsio? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Pignato? Yes. Chair Osso votes yes. The motion carries the welcome. Thank you everybody. Next we have case B.O.A. 156-3712 with the address of 18 Interreal Street. If the author can and the relevant and the present, they're explaining the case to Borgler. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Harry on carbon hour, the property owner, who joins us on this hearing today. My client owns the Arsolet 18 Interreal Street. Currently on the Arsol there is a dilapidated garage building that has been there for some years. That is used only for storage. My client is seeking to erect a new three-story two-family dwelling with two tandem parking spaces in a ground-level garage. This is an 1800 square foot lot, which is an undersized lot in the 3F-4000-Zone district. The fact that my client is proposing only a two-family dwelling would essentially be two flats on floors two and three. One bedroom units approximately are just over 700 square feet each. The building, as I mentioned, would be three stories of rise to a maximum height of just under 28 feet, 27 feet, 8 inches. The violations are all dimensional and attributable to the fact that the building is, as I say, an undersized lot, which is why it would be proposed as classic infill housing. The maximum FAR on the sub-district is 0.8. The FAR here was being proposed. It's just about one almost on the nose. We are aware of the BVDA's recommendation, which puzzled me a bit. I thought much of the recommendation was spot on in terms, again, of this being classic infill construction on an undersized lot, where it was impossible to meet the dimensional requirements. But then that recommendation, included with the recommendation of denial, and suggesting that the applicant, among other things, maybe considered this being a three-family dwelling by eliminating the grounds for parking. I think on this lot of three-family dwelling would be excessive. My client believed he settled on a two-family dwelling here, as opposed to a single-family dwelling, because these are closed to be units for sale, home ownership units. They would be perfect entry-level home ownership units, and just over 700 square feet, one bedroom units. Whereas if this were a single-family dwelling, obviously, you'd be talking about less affordable in terms of the sale price of a single-family dwelling. We feel that this is probably the lowest and most reasonable economic use of the land with these two units, and with that all-ponsible, take any questions that members may have. Thank you. Is the garage parking for one or two vehicles? The garage is a tandem formation, so two cars, but you would have to pass through one space to get to the rear space. So it could be considered a single-car parking, but it is laid out as two cars in tandem formation. Other questions from the board? Can you go over, this is a really small lock. Can you go over the dimensional variances? Yes, certainly. It is a very small lock. It is taxed as residential land rather than as a non-buildable parcel. The violations are insufficient, a lot area for thousands of square feet is required. As I mentioned, this is an 1800 square foot lock. There's not a subdivided lock. This lock has been in existence for some time. I went through the assessing records, and it's been independently assessed since at least 1985. There are violations for a lot with and frontage. The requirements under the code are for a standalone unattached, while in 45 feet of width and frontage for semi-attached, it would be 25 feet. Under the zoning table, even though it's a 3F4000 lock, 2000 square feet is required for a 1 unit building. As I said, that was an option. My client looked at it, but he felt that a single family here might be able to pricey for the enabling filter providing two smaller units made better sense. As I mentioned, there is a violation for excessive FAR.8 is what allowed. It was being proposed as approximately one. This sufficient use of open space violation, and I acknowledge that the BVA recommendation did not use a low-con space. Each of the units has approximately 50 square foot rear deck. In addition to that, the building does have a rear yard behind the area of those decks, which is an additional 200 square feet. In addition, there is an 8 foot front setback. BVA recommendation also notes the setback and recommends that it be brought into modal alignment. My client did do an overlay plot plan and this building is approximately in nearly exact alignment, I should say, with three buildings immediately to the right and then one building to the right and the two buildings to the left. The modal alignment of the nearby structures, the nearest structures, was taken into consideration with that 8 foot setback. There is a violation for insufficient front yard setback, what is required is 20 feet, which obviously would make a lot unbuildable. The side yards here, the requirements, you have to go here. Can you just quickly just say the required and then the actual item. So 20 feet, and what is the actual front yard setback? 8.1 feet, which is essentially the modal alignment with respect to the nearest properties. The side yard setback requirements on each side should be at least five feet from a side block line, ten feet from an existing structure. The slide, as I mentioned, is 22.5 feet wide. Each side setback is 3.1 feet. And finally, there's the violation for off-street parking design with the can of spaces. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, I'm sorry. Can you tell us the unit sizes? I'm just interested in this sort of dimensionally and how much living area you would get out of this lot size? Yes, the first floor unit, which has more hallways space on that floor, is approximately 700 square feet. And then the second unit on the third floor, because there's a hallway area and actually those stairs going out with a two-part unit. So that one is more like roughly 750 square feet. And they are proposed as one bedroom units. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Man of public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the Law and Human Rights Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor is object to defer to the judgment board. So back information, the community process. I'm heard from a number of neighbors in stakeholders expressing concerns, what they feel as proposed building being too large for a lot that they believe is too small. The concerns also regarded existing traffic and parking issues on the street concerns related to vehicles exiting out of the proposed garage making it onto the street. Concerned related to the lack of open space on the lot. They felt that this for them, they too. People potentially using grills on the proposed rear porch and cost and fire hazards. We heard from the local neighborhood association, which is the Normandy streets residents association and they were in opposition to this project. I would like to further the board at this time. Thank you. Mr. Newman, did they mention the reason for the opposition was it density or just sort of all of the events that you mentioned? I believe all of the above. Okay. Thank you. Joy? Good morning to the chair members of the board. My name is Joy. I'm up for something. Councillor Anderson of District seven. The council appreciates the opportunity to address the board regarding the development plans at 18 and about street. And after global consideration of reviewing the community concerns, I would like to remind you that she cannot support this measure in its current form. The decision was based on multiple emails from the community into the office with concerns about numerous violations that aren't addressed sufficiently. And this decision was not made lightly and has rooted in the councilor's commitment to ensuring responsible sustainable projects that align best with the community, which is open to further discussion and collaboration to address concerns. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is Michael. This is Michael Koso from Project right three to zero eight. We appreciate that the developer met several times with both the butters to the mayor's office meetings and also through the Interval Normandy Street Negotiations. However, eight of butters who live right on Interval Street on that block are opposing it. We should note that this lot used to be part of a broader lot 3600 square feet, according to BBDA records. There used to be a two family house on the broader 3600 foot lot. The spot was self-delighted and the previous house was on the other side of the driveway that now exists. The proposal puts the house right on top of the driveway. And the developer sides that the question. So it is 3.1 feet from the property line, but then it's less than five feet away from the new from the butter that has been there forever. So there's a lot of restate all the opposition, but this building is on a small and there are a lot that's really unbuildable with the size of the building that you're talking about. Thank you. I'm not a digital rights. Any other raise hands? Okay. Mr. Pogini, would you like to address any? George. That's okay. At least you confused me with somebody who's very good at job. My client certainly is aware of the concerns. And I guess what I can say being honest is he would certainly consider a single family if the board is not of the predisposition to approve this. But again, a single family here would have really all of the same violations. It would simply result in one unit that really wouldn't be much smaller. There are two bedrooms here being posed on the lot in terms of usable open space 650 square feet is required. That's nearly one third of the size of the lot. So every violation would be applicable to a single family. The only difference is that a single family would have again, maybe one more bedroom. And it would be less affordable in terms of being a single family rather than a condominium unit. So I understand the first reason on the board. I understand what the concerns are as good as my client. And that will certainly accept any decision that the board makes and proceed accordingly. And so with respect to setbacks, Mr. Ramranzi, it doesn't sound like if you went to one family, you would just setbacks at all. No, it gets to the question of is this a buildable lot or is this not a buildable lot? It has been taxed as residential land as a separate parcel. I went back to 1985, which as far as the online records go. I don't see any other reasonably economic use for the land. I don't think there would be support from BTD of the transportation department to use it as residential parking. So it either is unusable and unused land or a one or two family. As I said, my client here, two family simply in terms of trying to create two units that are more approachable in terms of affordability. Thank you. Any other questions from the board hearing none? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to deny without prejudices. I think it is a small block and the density being proposed here is as excessive. Is there a second? I will second that. My concerns are more with the dimensional standards and trying to accommodate parking on this site with the lot with sort of creating a variation where the cars would be backing out from the building to the street. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Volanzio. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pannauto. Yes. Cheryl Volz. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 1502445 with the address of 51 St. Margaret Street. If the applicant can send their representative a present, what they explain in case the board goes. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy. Mr. Vardy Mr. Puzzle here toazingly be a three-story two family with parking at grade. It's actually the violations are all dimensional. The locked size here is 2520 square feet. Where the code would recommend 5,000. A lot with here that's recommended is 40. What this site provides is five. A lot of frontage that's required by the code is 40. What this site proposed, what this site has is 35 feet as well. The front yard with the code would propose is 15 feet. What we have here is eight feet. The rear yard with the code would recommend 20. What we have here is 13 feet. The FAR that is recommended is .5. What this proposal has is a 1.02. There is a violation in height as far as stories because the first floor is all parking at grade. So in the three-story building, the notice that went out after a revision that was made, it still lists the building a violation in feet, but that is not correct. What the code recommends here is 35 feet. There was a revision that was made to drop a unit here and drop a floor, which ultimately went the building at 30 feet, which is under the feet violation of 35 feet. With that, I'm going to hand this off to Christopher Drew to just run through the plants. Next slide please. So again, you can see the first building on the left. This is just a two-family on the right. Next slide please. So the first floor is on the right hand side. We have two parking spaces as well. Tight parking, the two parking pipes. You can see the plant vestigility, what the stairs are. So calming the stairwell. We've got three bedrooms to that for the kitchen with the dining. Second, they're the interests of the rear with the other desk. Next slide please. You can third floor. It's very similar to the second floor. Two bedrooms to that. Two bedrooms to that. Two bedrooms to the dining room. Next slide please. Just to propose the old issues, again, showing you the contrast of the existing two families of the right. Next slide please. Just the right side of the room. You can see the decks on the back, the day and the front. Next slide please. It will be in the rear of the room to the right side and the left side of the room to the left side of the page. Next slide please. Really just some potential renderings kind of showing the building in with everything else. Next slide please. And just to conduct the progress. If this point will be happy to open up to any questions and comments, what's the next? If you've managed to very quickly, remember to the board. I forgot to mention, this is a big hit lot. It is not the result of a subdivision in the units range and size from 109 square feet to 1019 square feet. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I put the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, with honor and new meeting with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process, Owen S. posted two of Otters meeting. And hence, in the second one on, looks like December, there was some initially concerns in the first meeting regarding the felt that the building was being shoe-worn in to a very narrow parcel. Sounds I understand that there's some changes were made. In the second of Otters meeting, there were still some concerns raised regarding that they felt as trees potentially being removed as well as the loss of green space. And when they felt it would be another absentee landlord in this area, the applicant did go before the McCormick Civic Association which voted to support this proposal. With that, I'll defer to the board this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Liam Rayman's from Council for the Sales Office. I'd like to like to invite great not-position of this proposal. Thank you. Do you, by the way, any reasons that the Councillor has? Mainly, community concerns, but I'll be speaking to you. A lot too small for that area. Sorry. Thank you. Does any other raised hands? I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to move forward in motion for approval with maybe a year of you. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wielo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Yes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, Liam. Thank you, ma'am. Next, we have case BOA 1513515 with the address of the 13K street. If the applicant's and or their representative of the program, do you explain the case of the board? Good morning. My fiance and I live in a 3D family condo or the top unit. And we already have stairs that were built into the room. Can you just put a stage journey and address for the record? Oh, thank you. Sorry. My name is Alicia Powder and I live at 13K street unit 3. So it's 3 condos. I'm on the top unit. There were stairs already built outside. We're going up to the roof when we bought the unit and we're like you took the upper deck on top. We've gone through the butter reading processing. Got an there were no objections during that meeting. If you just stay on that slide, we'll want to be for it. So what are the dimensions and is that the back of the unit? Where the roof deck is proposed? Yes, it's on the back of the unit. It's not on the street side and then it's 20 by 25. Thank you. And questions from the board. Okay, sharing none. The mayor of the testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're calling our newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. Oh, and I so soon about her to meet on December 18th, 2023. During that time, no concerns were raised in the meeting. At the gate of Heaven and the Input Association, which is the at the center group of this area is on record in opposition as is their policy with all the roof decks in their catchment area. Our office does not receive any letters of supporter opposition at this time without deferred to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Laura to the Director for the Council of Friends Office. Council of Friends, we would like to call our current opposition based on feedback from both neighbors and the gate of Heaven and neighborhood association. We're also opposed to additional roof decks in the neighborhood. Council of Friends has a long, long standing policy of opposing roof decks in their residential areas of South Boston due to years of negative impacts on the quality of life of our seniors. First of all, with disabilities in young families due to midnight parties at all hours and customer issues originating from roof decks. These issues have negatively impacted the quality of life of neighbors throughout South Boston for years, with a changing town, and South Boston hadn't become a destination on the weekend for young people. These issues were exacerbated during the pandemic and have continued its aftermath. Lastly, additional roof decks in the community will not address our affordable housing crisis. It is difficult to mention what kind of hardship that a roof deck will require to leave for from the serious corners of things. So, you go. Thank you. Can anyone have any additional issues? I don't know if this is a question for the applicant, Mr. Newman or Laura, but as to roof decks in the vicinity, like, do your butters have roof decks? What is the situation on that block? I don't know if that's a question for you, Ms. Powder. Oh, there are other roof decks in the area. And what about your butters? Are you aware whether your butters have roof decks? I'm not aware. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'm Madame Chair. So, I think the BPD 8 memo points to other roof decks on the block. So, I am going to floor your motion. I'll approve of all. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Balencia? Yes. Ms. Weow? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have Kate Beoway. One five two. One five six five. Would the address of four four nine to four fifteen west broadway? Is the applicant and what their representative's present? Will they be appointed as boy groups? Certainly. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge. Madame Chair, members of the board. Joseph Feister from the law firm of Dane Torby. 175 Federal Street, 15 Boston. At the outset, one I'd like to wish the board and all on this call. I have the Easter. Beyond that, I wanted to also point out the board that per a December 7th. Refuse the letter December 7th, 2023. Refuse the letter. Some of the violations were rescinded, specifically in Article 68 section 8. Extension into the rear yards greater than 1000 square feet. Conditioning was rescinded and an Article 68 section 8. Insufficient rear yard setback was rescinded in that updated refusal letter. I am pleased to be representing the blind in this particular matter. This is the South Boston Community Health Center, which has service the South Boston community for decades. Resenting this morning is Bill Halbrim. His name comes up as Susan, not Begale, the air because he had to find me. First of all, we definitely get him onto this hearing appropriately, but they are both with the South Boston Community Health Center. Bill is the president of C.E.L. Also, on your several lawyers from my law firm, Dave Tommy, who are observing this hearing this morning to see the great work of this board. The architect from the Lairon Group is John Zickowicz, who will be presenting the plans. I would like to start, if I might, with having Bill Halbrim get the board the setting for what is being proposed by the South Boston Community Health Center. So Bill, you're on. Thank you, Mr. Feister, and good morning to Matt Musil, who are my apologies. We have a little technical issue here, so that's why I'm showing up. The chair certainly knows the main answer to the end of the bill, but I am about to anyway, South Boston Community Health Center has been servicing South Boston for over five decades, actually, and has consistently grown in my 26 years as the CEO, grown in both volume and location. We originally moved from into this building about 28 years ago, with expanded into the C.P.L. and area where we have a university care center in the US, and it was a proposal before you today is to add an addition, two story addition, two floors, to our existing structure built over our existing vacuum on, on the surface. So the no impact on our main entrance, so far, around the West Broadway. It was really a couple of reasons why we really desperately need to expand. First, we learned a lot of lessons during the pandemic, and one of the lessons was that it was the value of social distancing and keeping people with respiratory and communicable diseases sort of separated. This will allow us to do that because we'll be adding 11 additional exam rooms and also freeing up space in a existing basement that will also add clinical capacity. The other, so you know, improve patient flow and allow us to see more patients. We project on the order of about 5,000 visits. We could, in terms of additional capacity, much needed visits. Secondly, during the pandemic and continuing to this day, the behavioral health needs of this community have, and really the entire city, but particularly the South-Barristan have simply exploded. We are having a very high time meeting that can be high as the, you know, we hire social worker or therapists and their panel is filled in less than a month. So this addition will allow us additional space so we can accommodate those those behavioral health needs. We've had two neighborhood meetings and I think they were each of the association city side and Santerinsans were in favor of this. And it's really, I mean, at its core, it will allow us to continue to service the needs of the community, which is what we've done for over five decades. Well, I'm going to let, thank you for that and you can see that Bill over his many years of service is very passionate about serving this community and what the South-Barristan really health send an offer. Bill has gone into a lot. I can have a Madam Chair. I can have the architect, Mr. Zika Witt's Goldouly drawings. The plan, if you would like, out what's the pleasure of the boy with Madam Chair. Thank you. No access to a care is critical and expanding services is important. So briefly, you know, briefly just walk through the violations. I think that would help the board just see where we are. John, were you on mute yourself? Yes, I am. I'm here. Yes, thank you very much. The addition itself is was approximately 96 feet by 58 feet, 5600 square feet, a floor for a total of 11,000 square feet. As Bill mentioned, the addition is at the second and third levels. So we're maintaining the existing surface parking that's accessible off the silver street. The dimensional violations required to have a FAR 1.5 with this addition. We are at 2.77. We have an open dwelling violation. There is required to have 200 square feet for a dwelling unit. Obviously, there are no dwelling units here. So we have zero open space. A front yard set back off west Broadway is a five feet, the building, the existing building is comes up to the profile line on both front street and F street on the side because this is a corner lot. The front street set back also applies to the side yard. So we are at zero there as well. We are extension of a non-conforming use. We're allowed to be 25% or less. We are at 26.7%. The health center itself is a forbidden use in this area. There is no loading dock and it's required to have 53 parking spaces, which is one space for 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. We have 21 total spaces in the back, like I said, we're maintaining what's there. We will lose four spaces due to the structure of the support of the upper floors, but we're primarily maintaining what's existing on the back parking lot. And just before Madam Chair, I turn it back to you for any questions or comments, support for sure. We appreciate, but I wanted to underscore what Mr. Halper said that they met city side, St Vincent and with their silvery street neighbors and their kind. I'm not aware of any objections to the run. With that, Madam Chair, I turn it to you. Thank you. Questions from the board? Madam Chair, Madam Chair, members of the board, this time the mayor is offered to the judgment of this board. Some background information in community process, on this hosting of the butter's meeting on December 7th, 2023. All accounts have been very positive meeting with many residents of appreciative of the vital services that the member of health center provides to the community. City side member association felt that the above is being so well received that they did not require the applicant to provide a formal presentation to the membership as a result and a city side civic association indicated that they wish to propone in the best of luck. Without further ado, for the board of this time, we have no letters for the opposition as of last night. Thank you. Madam Chair, thank you. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Laura Tolanana for Consul, since office, I am writing in support of the proposed project of 49415 Wets Rowley, which is a sign of the South Boston Community Health Center. This will expand the South Boston Community Health Center by adding to first of the clinic and will allow the food to increase its capacity and better serve our neighborhood. This project will add 11 new exam rooms to the South Boston Health Community Center, which will allow them to free up the basement for more clinical services and will help accommodate approximately 5,000 more visits per year to the health center. The additional space will also improve patient flow and infection control. And this will allow the South Boston Community Health Center to space outpatients and limit the spread of respiratory diseases. This will ultimately improve patient access to the South Boston Community Health Center and allow the health center to serve expressions efficiently and effectively. Over the past 50 years, the South Boston Community Health Center has provided important health care services in South Boston, served in 70,000 business per year that includes families, our seniors, person with disabilities, immigrant neighbors, communities of color, and our most vulnerable and public housing. At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, South Boston Community Health Center was the first community health center in South Wisconsin to provide vaccines for seniors and deliver a total of 35,000 doses to the community. South Boston Community Health Center is an extraordinary institution, in South Boston, and this proposal will allow them to provide more services to the patients and continue its mission. I hope the CDA will improve this application. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to me. I have a flame at Buzz on that glove or 627-635-3203. Thank you. Thank you. My name? Thank you, my name is Badala. My name is Sherry. I'm a support minor for its per percent in the carpenters field. We let you go and recommend support of this project. No additional wave dance. Thank you. Would that be a motion? I'll make a motion to improve with PPDA design review with some attention to parking and loading layout. May I have a second? Second, please. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Ruezl? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Pignato? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck Bill. All right. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Member of the boys again. Happy Easter to all. Thank you. Next we have a case of B.O.A. 155-4723 with the address of 40 Brooklyn Street. It's the applicant and with the representative's brother, with the each point case to the board. Yes. Good morning again, Madam Chair. Members of the whole area, Attorney Pippos. Well, McDermott, Quilty, Miller and Hamley. They're in Boston. What they today is Red Hals and Mohsen, the Sally. The owner of the hotel, Connie Sheen, Shaheen, who's the general manager at the existing hotel in Jack Barney, who's the restaurant operator. Just very quick background. Monk Vernon purchased the building about 10 years ago. They've done a bunch of work to the building. Additional renovations were performed in 2018 to open the Red Revolution hotel, which opened in December of 2018. The Cosmic Restaurant, which is a restaurant at the site already, opened in December of 2019. It's been a real positive for folks in the neighborhood, and the great operator. And this is a long existing hotel in hospitality building. Next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. So this is just showing you the space. This is in the lower level of the existing hotel. The proposal ears to keep providing this great kind of hospitality that they've been providing for many years at this location. And they're looking to change the audience and see to include a restaurant use with live entertainment after 10.30 p.m. specifically on this garden level, which is the top right of the floor plan here. This is currently used as co-working space for guests of the hotel, but they do use it actually also for private events, and they do serve out of the hallbattery already as part of those events. Next slide, please. And this is just to start to see the outline of the space here. This is looking to make this about the use of the space as part of the hotel, but connected with that existing restaurant that's already there. There would be food and full dining available in the space. Everything would be out of the restaurant kitchen, the Cosmic Restaurant Restaurant Kitchen that is already there. And part of that kitchen is actually already down here already. You can see where it's at the back of the house on the top of the screen as well. This would be an adulterian plan for this live entertainment that they would be looking for in this lower level space. They kind of want to create happening in the revolutionary hotel, so to speak. It would be four hotel tenants, hotel occupants, but also for the neighborhood. And you can see here in the spaces about 2340 square feet. It would hold up to 156 occupants. There are 92 seats. There is a full bar. And this would again be seen as an amenity to the existing restaurant that's there now. You can see on the screen on the top right where it says entertainers DJ to people to the right where it's a stair A on the screen. That is where the live entertainment would be located. So it's not really a stage. It's meant to be intimate music. DJ and instrumental perhaps vocal for, you know, for instance, like a jazz trio or a breakfast brunch with the DJ and also kind of a supper club type concept. So not a nightclub by any means. And there isn't even a set dance floor that, you know, they are what we did provide dancing. And if that's more than it, but there is this is not like a, you know, let's say a typical nightclub or a set. There's not a day to get a dance floor or anything like that in the space as you can see here. Next slide, just two more slides now, chair. This is a slide that just shows access to the space through the hotel restaurant. So the previous slide was the lower level where the space is, right, for this slide entertainment use. But I think importantly, to show not only to the neighborhood, but to the board, our folks will access the space. And so you can see here this is the ground level of the hotel. You can see on the right hand side top right that is the entry to the hotel from Berkeley Street. And then you can see this arrow here that trekked kind of a green view on the lower right is a existing restaurant patio. And what would be what is the purpose is for folks to come in, brew the hotel restaurant courtyard into the hotel, walk me down the stairs to that lower level along this kind of macaroni-shaped stair case that you can see here. It looks like an upside down slinky downstairs into that space. And so that's helpful for the boards understand because this live entertainment is not on the ground level. It's not has no access to the outside. It's actually in the lower level. There will be extensive sound attenuation down there. There are windows down here to that space, but these are just, you know, kind of bend windows that bump out. They're not really operable. There will be acoustical treatment over those windows as well. Obviously, you know, they want to make sure that this space and the sound coming from it is consistent with the hotel and hotel guests in their experience first and foremost. So at the end of the day, it's all about the hotel guests, but also, you know, the any concerns that we are from the neighborhood, from sound, travel, noise are issues that the hotel you know has as well because the nearest neighbors and the butters are actually their own hotel guests. Allers of operation. The last thing I'll say is, proposes 4 to 1 a.m. However, most nights it will close by 11 p.m. Depends again on the night and environment. Obviously, you know, Wednesdays and Thursdays probably earlier. Fridays and Saturdays probably later. In lightly, would be operating from Wednesday to Sunday to start. And I think Madam Ambassador, the last slide is just showing our refusal letter. If you could scroll down please, because this is an existing hospitality use and because there is an existing restaurant on the space, we do need a conditional use permit for change and a non-conforming use by expanding that space. And then the our restaurant with the live entertainment after 10 p.m. is a conditional use, which we can see as well. But I think, you know, as I mentioned, you know, on the conditional use permit standards, we, you know, there's a lot of talent here from an existing standpoint and from the operator, the operator's jack barry, who, for one, did operate the B.I. right off the street, which had live entertainment for 17 years from no issues with the neighborhood and had a much larger occupancy. So the character and fitness of the operators pretty good here as well. So I know there's a lot of information, but on my self and team are happy to do, do we answer any questions that you might have? Thank you. Thank you. So just to clarify, so presently does the existing restaurant have a live entertainment license and no? Okay. Osmiko restaurant, which is on the ground floor, does not have a live entertainment license. This would be an addition to that component, which would be balanced here. So no, it does not. Okay. So the rest of your answer was that the request is strictly for the garden level, not the ground level work. That is an omniscience. Absolutely. Yes. It would just be a non-molar level on the floor plan. And if you actually, it's not a ambassador, if you scroll back up to the next page up, you can, I believe, see the restaurant space here is on the left-hand side, lower-left-hand side, into the patio. So it's already there, but that's where the existing restaurant is. The live entertainment component is as shown on the plans submitted to ISD in the board, only on that lower level. Questions from the board? Eric Niden may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're calling on anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The send the mayor's office looks referred to the judge from this board, when it's conducted a positive community process. There were some concerns raised from neighbors regarding noise pollution. The applicant was able to address those concerns and explain their process, how they will address that. The applicant they want to meet with the LSD and the association, you understand as well, without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Laura, Dr. Niden for the council office. Our physical soul team will let the board record support based on a good community process. The council respectfully requests that the team continue to work closely with neighbors in the event of any noise complaints or other following of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Minor? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Minor per se are presented in the carpenters union. I'd like to say for those to expressly, in my regard, I would like to congratulate the committee and we here to support his petition. Thank you. Good, Eric. Can you speak to me? Yep, my name is Eric Schweizer. I am the property owner over at the Peek Grace Tree Unit 1. I wanted to call to oppose this motion. We had tons of issues recently with the hotel and their guests who have and their employees, in fact, who have consistently been coming out into the front steps of our property doing illicit activities. We've also had issues in the past with noise complaints from the hotel, particularly on New Year's Eve, when music was directly affecting our quality quality of life at our unit. This included the wall shaking, very, very loud noises going on until one and two in the morning. So therefore, I oppose the motion. Thank you. So, can we stay tonight for a moment now, Agess and Melissa here in support opposition? Sure, this is Chris Tapas, I'm President and CEO of the Massachusetts Login Association, and we would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. My honor, my final chair, no additional raise hands. Thank you. The applicant just like to briefly respond to the a better on Gray Street before we make a motion. Sure, Madam Chair, that's the first that I've heard of it at, but you know, I know that Connie from the Revolution of Tell was the General Manager's on with me perhaps. Connie, I don't know if you are listening in if you want to respond at all to any of those comments. Body there or ready for anybody from Auburn? Yes, this is Rick House with my current company, where the ownership team for the Revolution of Tell, I apologize to our neighbor for any problems that he's had and I want to emphasize that there's hotel staff available 24-7 to address any concerns with respect specifically to the space downstairs. We are going to be putting an extensive soundproofing to minimize any noise, leaving the space itself. Our first and foremost concern is the hotel business and this use with the live entertainment in the basement is really just an accessory to the hotel. It's not the primary business so it's in our best interest to keep the noise level down and to also work with the neighbors and be good neighbors when there are issues or complaints new years of you or any other time. So it sounds like you would be available to your neighbor to address these concerns offline. That is correct, yes. Thank you. Would that be a motion? A motion of a three. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wu-Roh? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you all. Next is case B.O.A. 155-4377 with the address of 465 Metro Street. It's the applicant and will they represent the person who they are exploring the case of the board for? Jack Moriari, the flatly company. Thank you Mrs. Stembridge and Madam Chair, members of the board. This space is opposite space in the existing outer building at 465 Metro Street in Charlestown. It's on the campus of the Shraffes factory properties. The property has been owned by the flatly company since 1984. The complex, the four 65, Mrs. Stembridge property, which just for 25, I'm sorry, Memphis Street property, the old nominal sugar facility, which just went through an extensive BPDA's master plan and was approved now 314. And the area that's in question here is office space that's going to be utilized for basically, it's not therapeutic births, purposes that's more counseling by ABA centers of America, like briefly just read their mission. The mission is to provide clients and their families with individual and comprehensive care help to navigate the social, emotional, and communication of daily living and experience for those suffering with autism. These are mostly adolescent children and teen inches and this was all being somewhat of their corporate offices. The violation was basically because it's over the, it's in the gateway, the regulation, some district, which is a proposed use for BIDEN. It's really not a procedural space, it's more of an interview space and a counseling area for families with adolescents and children. And your renovation, it sounds like the work is primarily or strictly interior? Is that correct? It's all interior. There's really nothing actually damaged, I would consider medical procedural use, it's more interview space, one-on-one social workers. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Green with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and the buttons meeting was held for 465 Medved Street on January 25th. Since that time this office has received zero letters in opposition and zero in support. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. A minor? Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is minor for us representing hundreds of union carpenters that live in work for the zero Boston. I want to go on record and support on this tradition. Thank you. No additional arrangements. Would that mean I have a motion? Motion to approve. Now the second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Okay. Do I understand 99 Elm wished to defer? Yes, Madam Chair. Kevin Joyce. 31.5 is Boston. I do not think you requested to defer. Okay. Mr. Stembridge, if you could read that into the record. That would be, that would be four case of the OA 155, 62, 34, with the address of 99 Elm Street. Would you go ahead and join some supply? And is Kevin Joyce, Tony Warrantoff, the question at his time, maybe a question for her or the Smell? Smell, do you have a date? I apologize, Madam Chair. We'll point them about an hour. I believe the date we have is May 7th. That's right with me. Pleasure to board. We have a motion. Motion to defer to May 7th. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. With that, we will go on to hearing schedule for 11 AM. We'll also ask if there are any request for y'all with the parole hearing cases in this time, correct? Yes. Mr. Lines, requesting the deferral. John Lines. Jackie, Mr. Ebert. I donate the Senator's representative. Okay. Are you seeking the deferral? Yes, I am. Come on, Madam Chair. Thank you. My name is John Lines. I'm an attorney representing the proponent. Give us the address first so we can reach into the record. 40-42 Temple Street. Madam, and Mr. Stembridge. So, this is your request for the four case B-O-A, 151-5203. With the address of 40-42 Temple Street, go ahead. Good morning. My name is John Lines. I'm the attorney for the proponent. We have had two of our meetings, one e-boy meeting with Loha Mills and the general meeting with Loha Mills and Registry Associations. The project has been modified since the initial filing. Based on those discussions, we are evaluating, making some additional modifications. So, it's time to go right to defer so that we can meet again with both of those associations. And we need to have a final discussion, actually the first discussion, but the final word on the matter comes from the Greater Mattapan, the National Council, although we don't meet with them, we have to communicate with them. So, we need some more time. And I think we're realistically given the fact that Easter is coming up in the holiday after that, getting the work done and meeting with all three of those groups, we should probably look at early June of that's possible. Another June we have a date of June 4th. That would be fine. Thank you very much. May I have a motion? Motion to defer to June 4th. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Melansia? Yes. Mr. Nguyen? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Fernando? Yes. Mr. Fernando? Yes. Mr. Osfer-Roch, yes, motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Any further requests for the draw to defer from the lovely Mattapan? Madam Tri also wanted to know the details in the interpretive form. Okay. We're going to stay on. We're going to stay on. They are available. Yes. Okay. If that's the case, then we will take 61 London Street out of order. Thank you. We're going to 61 London Street. Just to confirm the interpreter is present, is that right? Yes. Okay. So let's just make sure we're pausing to give them a chance to interpret. Hi, son. Bam, can you hear us? You have two minutes. Yes, yes. Bam, I'm here. All right. Okay. Please proceed, Mr. Stembridge. Two sixty-one London, I'm sorry. So yes. So thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Next will be case B.O.A. 134-1131 with the address of 61 London Street. And we'll ask for the applicant to be and the representative and the representative and the interpreter to explain the boyhood. I was talking about the interpreter. Oh. Is the interpreter available? Can you translate? Yes. Are you translating? Will you translate? No. So we translate the case of the 9.00 KK 4.00 KK and the 134-11.00 and 134-11.00 KK and the 134-11.00 KK and 134-11.00 Yes. We can start. Okay. Is the applicant president? Yes. I'm sorry. Just excuse me. This is my lab primarily consulted for the homeowner. I apologize. I was trying to log in. I am here representing the the homeowner and consulted a developer for 61 Linus Street. And we are proposing to demolish a one-story single family in on Linus Street and constructed a six-unit family building. We have gone through three sessions at our bottom meetings and three rounds of meetings with the Fyodor Civic Association. I'm curious. Sorry. Paul is the interpreter. Can translate. Uh, he is the English English. You need to translate and he's English. I don't know. I'm sorry. Is there we're translating for butters who need Vietnamese. That's why you're here. Is that correct? I so that's mean I translated that into Vietnamese. Correct. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So I will just uh, he, he, he, he, he talk a little bit and I will start to pre-touch and then he's talking then I start. Do you need to, do you need to start over? Yes, I think so. I'm sorry. Please. Please start. Yeah. Sure. My name is Mai Lam. I'm representing the developer at 61 Linning Street. Uh, she is a, uh, a resident of the street across the street. And we are proposing to demolish a single family and uh, construct a six-family unit. Uh, I'm the one who uh, uh, uh, in Finland. Uh, in Finland. Uh, in Finland. Uh, we have gone through uh, three about our meetings as well as three rounds of meetings with the field's chronic civic group. Um, we believe we have responded. Favorite lead to their request to make improvements to the project? Uh, uh, The biggest change we were able to accommodate is to reduce the number of, the number of bedrooms from 18 bedrooms to 12 bedrooms. Essentially, when we apply, we apply as 63 bedroom units. Now we are asking for 62 bedroom units. Uh, We are also adding in green space in the backyard as well as uh, constructing an impervious driveway for a better drainage as requested by the civic association. Uh, with that, uh, we asked for the boards, uh, to go see. Just to clarify, you said impervious earlier, did you mean impervious? Pervious, excuse me, pervious. Thank you. Just wanted to clarify. Can I ask you a question from the board? Can I ask you a question from the board? Uh, can you talk about open space and how you are addressing open space on the site? Sure, I think what you see there is, um, is a site plan. Uh, the improvements we made based on feedback from the neighborhood is that we created a, um, bench and sitting area in the rear of the building, in the rear of the line, uh, left corner. Um, we, uh, uh, is 15 by 10 feet, uh, has a few benches, uh, and is, um, will be grass and, um, in landscape. Is that? If you talk about the, uh, dimensional variances, particularly the side yard setbacks. Sure. I'm not talking about the, uh, I think it's until, um, maybe, you could actually, um, show the, um, different yard, um, setback, uh, the zone is called for 15. We are providing 9.17. The side yard is called for 10, uh, 10 feet. Uh, we are providing 7.8. And the real yard, um, is called for 30 feet and we are providing 34. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You got the only way. Can you talk about, uh, other, um, types of housing on the, on that block, are they generally one, two, three, are there other six unit buildings on that block? This, this is a mix on that block. Um, this, I would say a combination of threes and twos, uh, three famous and two famous, on that block with some, uh, single family scattered throughout. Uh, um, that's the way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mr. Hampton, are you available to speak to the BPDU's recommendation? Uh, yes. Thank you, Madam Chairman for Jeff Hampton BPDA. Uh, we recommended to now with our prejudice just based on the plans that we have, who are knocking down a building, uh, putting up a six family, which, as you saw in our recommendation, really, isn't the concern, concern is open space. And what's there now is going to be even exacerbated, even more, uh, with this, uh, proposal. Uh, the other thing that is not shown on their plans in hours, or was it shown today, was this 10 by 15 area where in the back left, it's going to be green space. Uh, as you see up on the screen now, that has two parking spaces right there. So, um, if there is going to be green space, that's something that we haven't seen. Um, but our concerns, the amount of data on the site, no I can use for open space. Uh, we have a group of people who are working on the site, and we have a group of people who are working on the site, referring to the community of young musicians, that have faced many challenges with making the city within their own time. It's a challenge that when it goes through, there's a tough, uh, Wheers schools don't care, we make our efforts and the problems that I feel, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood and Services. This kind of Mayor's Office is referred to the judge from this board. This one from the Atlantic Community Process. Due to some personnel changes, we don't have a lot of information on this. We are aware that some people have raised concerns regarding the setbacks. But the fields of ownership and the association indicated that they are in support of this proposal. But that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Claymore, Mr. President. Sorry, can you pause for a comment? Madam Chair, members of the board, Claymore, Mr. Counsel, and the Council for the Sales Office. I absolutely like to invite you to the board of the proposal. I would like to ask you to be a member of the board. I would like to try to have no raised hands. Okay, so the voters who need the interpretation are not on? Can you ask? I'm sorry, can the interpreter ask? Because they may not just understand. Can you please say anything to us? I think they are understanding business. Cleveland, confidence. over, that I don't really understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't have the information on today's meeting. What are you doing? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Firstly, my first sign of most of the people here live around the 61 London object to the project because the street is too narrow, too small and we don't have space. Yeah Everybody's� me timamin me I'm forty because we live Ran and go through the lineages with a lot of people trafficking everyday. So it's very narrow and we feel that this is so back to not small base. Okay, I'm going to talk about a lot of things. We don't want to let you go through the lineages with a lot of people. We're now in the area of ​​the area where we don't have a lot of people. We have been in the area of ​​the area where we don't have a lot of people. We have been in the area of ​​the area where we don't have a lot of people. They have all the noise making noise. And now if we have more sick family in that way, we cannot live with that. So we object to the project. If you have a lot of people in the area where we don't have a lot of people, we cannot live with that. We don't have any space now. And if they are back on the street, we will hold that for a car on top of the new family. And you agree and see if you do not agree. So we decide to object to this project. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? I have a question, Maam sir. I am big with the BPD and the Commission allowed the massing of the Alissa project. But the required open spaces are very limited. So my question from the proponent is if you have considered reducing the number of parking units. I was thinking that if you have read a lot of parking units from 6 to 3 and you will be able to create a lot more open space and a bit of sight and sail back. So have you had any conversations with the BPD about that option? Thank you. I have heard that you have been in the area of ​​the Alissa project for a long time. Yes, I appreciate the question. And yes, just on the site plan, we do have an improved site plan that shows the green space and some of the improvements that we did in response to the neighborhood and to the civic association. Unfortunately, we did not meet the deadline, the 14-day deadline to upload a new site plan. But the site plan, but to the parking question, I think originally we had proposed seven units of parking. When we went through a process with the neighborhood and the civic association, there were members of the association who asked us to reduce the number of parking. So I believe we went from seven parking spaces originally down to five and with the reduction of the two parking spaces, we were able to increase the green space on the site. With all of you. What do you expect from the neighborhood? Yes, with respect to the butter, we went through a very long two-year process that had several staff from the ONS office and we went through about three meetings with the Field's Corner Civic Association. We did try to address the issues and the concerns of the neighbors. The biggest issue that we did address was reducing the number of bedrooms from three bedrooms down to two bedrooms, was basically went from 18 bedrooms to 12 bedrooms. Yes, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm going to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. I'm not comfortable voting on it as there's been updated plans that the board has not seen. I wish the applicant had requested a deferral, but I think they also just need more work to do. So we are not done with the work on you. Is there a second? I would like to suggest something. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. and we'll do a lot of snowflakes. Yes, Mr. Stambridge. 10 Tomson Square, please. Okay, so that would be case POA, once 304433 with the address of 10 Tomson Square. Would you go ahead and turn in please? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the Business Adder. There's a 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Singh McChann in this matter. Madam Chair, we have had deferrals of the past on this to allow for updated plans. It had been our hope that with revised plans that the recommendation of the BBDA might be updated and being more favorable to the project. That has not occurred. My client in assessing this and in recognition of the fact BBDA is not in support of a building that exceeds three stories. What my client would like to do is ask for one final deferral and then taking that into consideration, redesign the building and hopefully getting to a point where the BBDA can be supportive and represented to the community and also hopefully gain community support for a revised building. Thank you, Mr. Moran. See how much time do you need? At least a couple months, Madam Chair. Okay, Samantha. Madam Chair, if we're looking for a couple months, we can do June 25th, July 16th. However far the applicant thinks they need. Certainly nothing later than that view date. If there was anything in early June, I think that would work, but whatever works best for the woods calendar. We can do June 5th, June 25th, Madam Chair. June 4th, I believe we'll give us adequate time to get the revised plans in or reviewed by IST. And that's probably the best date in terms of engaging with community process before the summer begins. Okay, with that, Madam Chair. I have a motion. Motion both. I don't think it June 4th. So, Acton, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Anato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. I see that, Madam Chair. Thank you. Unless there are any other requests for the draws of the throws on the 1130 timeframe, we will return to the 11AM hearings. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1550671 with the address of 120 Park Street. 60 applicants can board the representative of his present big explain case of the board. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Anthony Ross, attorney for the applicant. And Adres is at 343 Valgray, D'Alvin, you know, in Rosendale. My client is Darktree Realty, a consultant with bonus Sean Merta and John O'Malley. The subject property has an address of 2-6 Cory Street in the Boston Accessing Department records and an address of 120 Park Street in the instructional services department records. But in any case, the building wraps around the corner of Cory Street and Park Street with existing entry doors on both streets. The building, Family House, the Masonic Real Restaurant and a commercial business. The proposal is to convert the building to five one bedroom residential units with no change to the size of the existing building or its footprint. On the site plan in front of you, the building is the building identified as Lot C on the corner of Cory Street and Park Street. Each unit in the proposed residential reconfiguration of the building would contain first floor living space of between 503 and 710 square feet, including kitchen dining room, living room, bedroom full bath and in-unit laundry. Each unit would have basement storage area accessible from the unit itself and from the confnary. The proposal includes four off street parking spaces, two of the parking spaces that were proposed would be 10 parking spaces utilizing the existing curb common Cory Street and two of the parking spaces would be to the rear of the building as well. If you could please mute in the ambassador, please mute non-canonist. Thank you. Please proceed. Sure. The only change to the exterior of the building would be to re-face the building with new siding and awnings to replace the inquiry doors and windows per the plans. As I said, the lot is almost completely occupied by the existing building. It is because of this condition and the proposal to repurpose the existing building that the proposal lacks required open space. I've viewed my client the B.P. DA recommendation that open space would be increased to 250 square feet. And my client has indicated that he will be willing to work with the B.P.D.A. and the design review process to create the requested open space, including if necessary by reducing the proposed parking. Be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Gentlemen, Chair, I'm looking at the Google maps and the properties to the left and right from this property are three floor height. So what is the reason just out of curiosity? What is the reason your project didn't intend to increase the density or higher at the same time, to create a more open space if you go higher on a scale? My client is proposing to repurpose the existing building and not to put a second or third story edition on the building. And because of that, because it is a single story structure, there's no opportunity to add balconies. But after reviewing the B.P.D.A. recommendation, we think that utilizing this, the portion of the lot that is not occupied by the current structure, and likely parking space, label parking space C, we think we could create the 250 square feet that the B.P.D.A. recommendation is requesting. Are the questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is an enti-act from the Office of Neighborhood Services meeting was held for this project on Wednesday, January 10, 2024, where some neighbors had questions about parking and those questions were answered by the proponent. On September, on January 23, 2024, this project passed by a fourth-three vote through the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council. At this time, the Office of Neighborhood Services defers judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Isle. With the Office of City Council, I'm Rock Maruel. And, regarding this project, we haven't received any notice for a rough decision, but we also haven't met with the proponent, and that being said, we'd like to have them defer for the community engagement. I have a child. Okay, any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, motion. I'll make a motion with the provisos that the plan to be submitted to the BDAA for design review and that the proponent increased the open space to 250 square feet by further reducing parking. So, to confirm you're making a motion of approval, approval, yes, with provisos. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Vue Lowe. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Here also, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. We will, the next case, we've been deferred. We will move on to case 08, 152, 5246 with the address of 112 Richmond Street. It's the outskirts of every one of their representatives. The big blanket case of the board of the board. Thank you, Mr. Sembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Paul Genie on behalf of the Debra Murphy E, the owner of 112 Richmond Street in Noitchester. With me, the staff's been introduced to James Christopher, 686 architecture and Debra Murphy, who is the property owner. 112 Richmond Street zoning is 1F5,000. This is a significantly large lot. It's 11492 square feet. This is a proposal to construct a rear addition that will attach an existing two-family residential building at 112 Richmond Street to an existing rear barn creating an attached unit in the rear and the changing occupancy from two to three units. This design was done in consultation with the Fire Department. So it's really about building code and why these buildings are attached. The proposal reference represents an adaptive method of adding to the housing stock in the sub district without adding new buildings to the lot and to the neighborhood. The unit mix will be the unit 1. It will be in the basement of the first floor of the existing structure. The unit 2 will be on the second and third floor of the existing structure. The unit 3 will be found in the rear barn. This proposal, with a community process of butters meetings and also a kid with low and no civic association, there were about 50 people in attendance and I think it was 49 to 1 in support of the project, including the director of the butters, including the senator, former senator Linda Ducina for even this directly next door. She's in full support and I believe that's written a letter of support. If I want to put it on to the board, nothing is changing here. We have an existing barn that's in the rear of this property and it's just a connection that will bring it in there so we're able to provide another home without changing the character or the context of the current neighborhood. At this point I'll turn over to James Christopher to walk to the plans, but I appreciate your time this was afternoon. Thank you John. Good morning, Madam Jim, I'm the blue and my name is James Christopher, six eight, six architects with the business address at 10 Ford's Road and BrainTrade. If you get out into the SK drawings, then they will go to the floor plans. This is just the existing plans that shows the existing housing detached barn. Up to SKV1. Thank you. The intent here is to create currently the existing house which sits towards the front of the property through the key plan here, it's crocheted in pink, and then the barn is to the rear which is currently detached. If you look to the rear of the top of this plan on the right, you have the first floor plan. There is a bedroom and a bathroom and that is where we are making the infill to connect the barn. The first floor will be, and basically it will be unit one, it's three beds and three baths, and it's approximately 290, 2,290, Swift feet. Next slide please. Unit two is a three bed to a half bath, 1,930, Swift foot unit. On the second and third floor, as you come up the internal stairwell to the second floor, you have living space with decks on the driveway side and the front of the property for some open space, and then on the third floor we have additional bedrooms with some attic storage. Next slide please. And then this is the third unit which is the barn. We have nice couches on the front and driveway side of the barn which matches the aesthetic of the front building. The barn unit is three bed, it has floor bathrooms and it's 2,354, Swift feet. There is an existing partial basement, we will not be using that, it will remain as is. Next slide please. And then that's the second floor of the barn which houses a bathroom, a sitting area, and two bathrooms, a sitting area, and two bedrooms. And then the each space in the roof plan. This is the building in elevation. The left side is the existing house, the right side is the barn which is set well back. All of the space to the barn in front will remain clean space with a walkway to the rear portion of the barn. We illustrate the couches and the dormers here. Next slide please. This is the right side elevation when facing. You can see the front and side couches. In the middle portion of the building you see there is a small stairwell there that leads down into the basement which is the common access to the mechanical rooms and units to have some storage down there as well. This is a rear elevation showing the porches on the barn and a second floor porch of unit two in stairs down. Next slide please. And this is the driveway side of the elevations where you can see where the roof steps down is the infill where we attach the buildings and then you have the barn to the rear with the porches. Next slide please. Here is our building section. Next slide. The barn section. And then just assume the additional sections. I think that's it. So without further ado I'm going to blow up for any questions. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a zoning question for Mr. Hampton if he's still on. I think he's still on. Is he out there? Yeah, I'm just wondering if we roll. Okay, so we've gotten a few of these and I just want to make sure I understand correctly. So it seems like the ADU is definitely a policy initiative but it seems to me it hasn't the zoning ordinance hasn't quite caught up to that. Like three single family dwellings on one lot. So can you just confirm that with me that there is no sort of ADU reference in the zoning. Depending on the neighborhood. Okay. You know there is a movement for ADUs in the city has been adopted citywide by zoning commission. So there are a lot of those reasons once there have been a push for them in Madapam, which has ADUs allowed. This is not in Madapam. And that one of the issues as you know. Even though it doesn't apply to this particular one because they are actually connecting the two they have issues. They would normally need two dwelling units on the same rod because they're in two separate buildings. This is just really connecting you know two buildings and it's a three family. It's not an additional dwelling unit by definition of the code. It will be coming soon for adoption by the zoning commission for citywide. But right now a lot of people use the Monica ADU and I know we've actually used it on other occasions where carriage houses were being converted. And they were stand alone where we say that this would be a great case for an ADU. We've even used it in our recommendations. But right now there are no citywide provisions that apply outside of Madapam. Okay. And just. Because I mean I think to me the difference is whether it's accessory to the uses on site. So is there any sort of limitation on like having three separate condo units here or is it sort of unacknowledged and instead of being of accessory? Yeah I can get you that information that so that you can read you know what determines an accessory dwelling unit versus one is a change to a three family. Because there is a definition out there that sets a specific threshold. Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, man public testimony. Chair members of the board who come learning with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. It's time mayors also be deferred to the judgment that's board. Our offices received 22 letters in support of this proposal and reportedly the local civic association from this area is indicated they have no stance. I believe that would be the lower male civic association without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Chair members of the board may members from council of its trails office are so that would like to honor a good support proposal. You're better China. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion? A motion to approve with BPD designer. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Any questions from the board? The following case on the list has been heard. So that takes us to case BOA 154 2657 with the address of 548 East 3rd Street. If the applicant and or the representative present with the exciting case of Boydland. I am Mr. Sembridge. Hello, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Good morning. Good morning. Almost afternoon. Mike Ross on behalf of the applicant. Terranath Law from the principal bell. With the owner of the property on the call here. Sean Alley and Ryan Berder. Let me just see what you have here. We're on the refusal. So I wonder if the next slide. Bring us to the plans. So, Madam Baster, should be. That would be the right one. Okay. Good. Thank you. So, Madam Chair, Ms. Boyd, this was before you. November 1st, 2022. We were denied without prejudice. This is a revised plan based on the impact we cover. The comments we received from the board. What we're seeking to do. We're seeking to build a, there's an existing one family on this site. And what we're seeking to, and it's a multifamily sub-district. We're seeking to build a three-family structure with a recessed fourth floor. The earlier version that they mentioned was denied. And then also a reduced parking of just two parking spaces as opposed to three parking spaces. This new project will have two bedrooms with one bath. Each of them are 976 square feet. And the top floor will be a one, one better with one bath. And that's now 827 square feet. And then just stand this profile. Here's the second monitor. As you can see, the bay initially, which overhangs onto this street sidewalk, initially was up all the way to the fourth floor. And now the bay itself was cut back as well. It brought down just to the second and third floor. And then that top floor used to be a two bedrooms. It's now on one. Next slide, please. These are the floor plans on the left. You'll see the two parking space garage on the middle and right floor plans. Those are the two bed and one bath. And you see the bay sits to the front on East Third Street. And then the back, there's a deck off of each unit, which is about five by 20 and approximately 100 square feet off the back of those two units. Next slide, please. And then that third unit there on the left, a smaller unit now. It is set back from the East Street. As you can see, the bay protruding from below. It also has that small deck off the back of the unit, approximately 100 square feet. And then on the right, you can see the section of the building. You can see kind of a generous height on each of the floors of nine feet. Itches. There's a small little skylight on the roof to allow for natural light to come in into the stairwell. Nothing else is on the roof. Next slide, please. To show you the front elevation of the building, the garage is a 10 foot wide garage. You'll note that there's no windows on the side of the building. And then the next slide will show you the rear yard and left side of the building elevation again, the windows. And we can go back to page one, I'm an ambassador, just for the first page of the architect, just to go quickly through the zoning relief. So this is a 12, 1279 square foot lot where a 2000 square foot lot is required. It's a short lot, which is probably the reason why we're here before you. A requesting relief or a shallow lot. It also requires additional lot or dwelling unit of a thousand. So we were excited for that as well. The FAR that's shown here by the architect is actually it's not 2.9. The architect included the basement, included the garage. The garage would normally be removed from the FAR. So it's really a 2.17 FAR. We still is about the 2.0 FAR, but much closer. For open space, this area requires 200 square feet per unit. There is 60 square feet per unit, but then each of the decks are 100 per unit. So you do have those decks, not to say it's the same, it's just raw open space, but worth mentioning. The setback, so we have a front setback. We are in a district that requires a three foot setback. I'm sorry, a five foot setback and we're at three, but a modal would bring us probably where we are right now. We didn't do a modal analysis. We took the front yard setback instead since we knew we were coming here. The setback side is requires three feet in this district, but we're at 0.5. So I mentioned there's no windows on either side, so that three foot setback off the side yard, really without the windows, isn't necessarily necessary. The rear yard setback is, again, this is a shallow lot, so the requirement would be 15. We are at 11, and close it up the decks for the rear. We were cited for parking. Normally there would be four required parking spaces on this site. We now have two, the deference of the comments we received. And that also was triggering a maneuverability to access the 10 foot garage door. And finally, I'd get aware that in an area where the previous building was shorter than the allowable height, which is 40 feet for this area, which is our height, 40 feet. The new building triggers the old buildings. Article 68, section 29. They also have this in the north end. It's just a self-laws, I think I'm sure you've seen it. So we were cited for that as well. Finally, Madam Chair, we received three letters of support, which we passed on to the Councillors' office and the Air's Office of Neighborhood Services. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I have a question. Looking at the first floor plan with the parking that space to the left seems a little tight, would there be two parking spaces with this project that are sort of deeded to the units? And who would get that left space? Yeah, it's a good question. The goal here is to do four-sale condominiums. So, unless they come up with some creative sharing mechanism through the condominium association, most likely it would be deeded with the units. Not everyone has a car, and the embrace car, and we want to pay for the car. And that was the feedback we got from the previous board. We did show three, one was granted a tandem, but we're now showing two. And that was the direct reference to the 2022 board. Okay. Thanks. Yeah, it seems just like a tight configuration. Well, and it's tight, and that's one of the reasons why we got into the ability. But, you know, ten feet with this is very common for curb cuts, for example, throughout the city on very large projects, too. So, the city generally doesn't like you to go too wide on the parking access, you know. Other questions from the board? Yes, Ma'am, Chef, Mr. Rose. I believe you have to create a new curb cut for this site. Correct, Mr. Rose. How do you have any conversations with BDD about opening this curb cut? So, we'll then move on. Or is this parking? Just through the community process, we've identified that as something we're going to have to do. So, it's known to the abouters, known to the community, it's known to the city. We would have to go to, you know, pay and go through that process. We will be removing two spaces off the street and exchange for a 10 foot curb cut. You know, we think it in the end, it's a good value proposition. And generally, what this community wants, because there's a requirement for 1.5 parking spaces for every unit in South Boston. So, that would be 3.5, you can't have 3.5, you have to have 4. So, now you're talking about 4 units for this. You know, so we went to 2 unit, 2 parking spaces. But that is what we'd be required to do here. And how did you compare to others on this sort of several walks? Because stories wise, you're seems to be generally higher than most. Well, if you look at, you know, down the road a bit, and if you, you know, if you follow Google streets, you'll see that there are a number of these set these 4 units. There's one directly to the left of us for, I'm sorry, 4 level lots. Most of the lots build out right to the edge of the property line. And I would expect to have a larger FAR than what we have here. So, they seem to be less, but more massive. This seems to be less massful than the other properties that are either existing or recently built on this block. And then there are some larger properties directly across the street from us. And in the immediate area. Mr. Hampton, do you want to share your recommendation from BKDA? Yeah, thank you Madam Chair. I was a voice at the answer BKDA. Again, when it comes to knocking down existing structure, we're looking for open space. When you put up a new one, as you've seen our theme for denial without prejudice over the past couple of hearings. And even today, that's one thing that we're really focusing on is that if you're going to knock something down, try to adhere to the open space as much as you can. So, we are recommending to all of our prejudices just to be to the masses of the building in the open space. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm just going to respond to that. Sure. Just to say that this is a shallow lot. It's only 57 feet long. And it is in a multi-family district. And the only way to get multi-family housing, you know, to replacing one family unit is to go as far as I can. And you know, as far as you can to create, you know, the volume for the building, which we've done with parking as well as outdoor space, the decks, in order to allow people access to their space. And plus there's still a little bit of a yard in the back. It's not giant, I'll grant you. But it's over five feet. And it provides a little bit of yard out there as well as what's beneath the deck. So, I mean, we're really trying to make this this lot work without being excessive. That's why we pulled back the volume of the building. Our FAR is very close to what's allowed, we're at 2.17 and 2.0. So, you know, we're trying to work with the regulations of this sub-district. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Just a quick question. So, Mr. Ross, did your client ever explore more living area on the ground floor and so parking like another unit? Yeah, and so, I mean, it didn't come out, I guess I would say. Mr. Ross, the issue would be that there's a strong demand for parking in this neighborhood. And I don't know if we could do anything meaningful on that ground floor in terms of combining, say, parking living. I mean, we just have the smallest of, I mean, the building itself is already a fee, I believe, maybe less, but I'll pull out here. Wait a second, but it's just, it would be very hard to get all of that in there. The parking in, now we can get rid of the parking and do housing. But I don't think we'd be here today. I think we would have passed the community process, would have gone through this. There's just another trailer. Thank you. Let's open it up to public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and in the move to Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, this time, the Mayor's Office, I'd like to defer to the judgment of this board, some back information, the community process, and the latest iteration that butter is being discussed to January 4th. During that time, some concerns were raised by butter's regarding parking, as well as what they perceive as on an open space. Miller, who talked of conversation with the size of the rear decks, I wish the proponent mentioned they could potentially use a divider to mitigate some of those concerns. The gate of the Neighborhood Association brought it to remain neutral regarding this proposal. Our office has, last night, received two letters in support from the butters, and so far no letters of opposition has last night. I would like to defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Laura from Constellate Flames Office. Constellate Flames relates to law record and support based on a good community process and support letters from A-Buddy neighbors. Constellate Flames, we respectfully request that the team continue to work closely with neighbors on any quality of life issues or the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. I'm trying to always get some. Okay, would that be a motion? Okay, Madam Chair, I want to make a motion. I think this project can work still. I think maybe the A can help the proponent to make some changes in the product parking configuration or parking manual. I cannot say that word. I knew what the real deal was. Well, that word. But anyways, my motion is true for a group of all with BPD is the same for everyone. Is there a second? That's right. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. I think this is a good one. This we wrote. I'm actually about no. I just I don't think the lot size lines itself to the two cars on the ground on the new ability. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. I'm going to vote no. I want to be consistent about lot sizes and how I view this. The chair votes yes, but the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? I'm not sure. You were full of work today. We do not. We do not. It's on the word. Which I announced earlier, but had not had occasion to reenounce. Is there another motion? So I'll put forward a motion of denial of prejudice and in hopes that applicant can do some more work and come back with a different project. Is there a second second? Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair votes yes, motion carries. I'm sure reconsiderations for this brief moment in point of order if I may. I was unaware of the board's size. It would have taken the administrative deferral. I apologize for not raising that earlier. I did raise it, but then you went forward the motion. I would just ask that you consider a motion reconsider will allow for administrative deferral. It would allow me to come back, cutting address the issues. And again, I was unaware. I came on it at around 10.30. 10.15. I think there was no announcement. I think that there's, you know, some share duty for me to count the heads, but also for that announcement and to give me the opportunity to avail my clients of their rights. So respectfully, I'd ask you to consider a motion reconsider to vote for the administrative review. Samantha. Madam Chair, that's up to the board. It has been advertised that this is a six-member board and it has been consistently a six-member board all day. We have. Mom standing frequent flyers know that six members is not a full board. So that decision would be up to you and the board, Madam Chair, on how you wanted to proceed. You could keep the motion as it is since the board has made a motion, an inverted unanimous motion, but that is up to you and the board. I will give the person who made the motion an opportunity to change their motion, but concur with Samantha that this has been advertised as such. It is listed with the members who are present today. So. Ms. Wero. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to stick with the original motion. Thank you. And so that is the decision of the board. Thank you. Thank you. That we will move on. And so let that be a reminder that this isn't the six-member board and has and will continue to be all day. Sorry, Mr. Stembridge. That's quite a right, Madam Chair. We will move on to case B.O.A. 152 4057 with the address of the 363 E Street. It's the applicant to enter the representative's present. Would they explain to the board, please? Yes, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Cedarwood Development, David Winnick and David Mateo, owners of the site here at 360th Creek East Street in South Boston. This is within an NFR multi-family residential sub-district under Article 68. Madam Chair, members, some members may remember this address, 363 E Street was an article 80 small project. This is about half of that site, which was approved for a four-story 24-unit development in November 2022. Unfortunately, in a butter file that appealed that decision, my client subsequently abandoned that application. This is an application involving three parcels approximately half of that original site. This site is 3648 square feet. What is proposed is a new three-story four-unit dwelling building. The slide that's currently up is showing the site plan of land with the newly proposed building. If we could go to the next slide, please. Rendering of the building at the intersection of the street and Bolton Street. Bolton Street running up to the left, and what you can see there is the changes in the architectural rhythm of the building. To break it out and give it the appearance of not being a single structure. Next page, please. Areal view of the site and just some photos of the surrounding neighborhood. Next slide, please. Again, areal view of the site. That St. Vincent's Church across the street, the building that's currently on the property, was a barrage house long been abandoned. St. Vincent's closed. It was deconscrated many years ago. My clients actually received approval for a residential redevelopment of the church building and construction with the November 22 group of this site. Next slide, please. We can go to the next slide as well. That's also a site view. Sorry, site plan. There's the existing structure, which would be demolished. Next slide, please. This is the site of post-war story building. Parking garage would be entered from the Bolton Street side of the site. There's a bill parking by Bolton Street. There we can see the rear yard set back. That is landscape to next slide, please. That is simply the basement, which is utilities. Next slide, please. The first floor of the building has a main entry on E Street, a gym, a bicycle storage. Then the eight spaces in the parking garage, as I mentioned, access from the Bolton Street side of the site. Next slide, please. Moving up to three bedroom units on either side of the vertical circulation corridors. Next slide, please. And upper stories are also three bedroom units. These are by-level units. That's third floor. If we move up to the fourth floor, we'll see the upper levels in a recessed four-floor level of the building, providing four additional living space for those units. Total four units, as I say. Next slide, please. Grant elevation on E Street. Next slide, please. A side elevation on Bolton Street and then a Bolton Street context plan with the obitaries on that side of the Bolton Street side of the property, which is to the rear in this case. Next slide, please. And just elevations showing what was previously depicted in the renderings. And I think the rest of this is simply rendering. So if we scroll down, you'll see different views of the building and rendering form. With respect to zoning, Madam Chair, this is virtually zoning compliant. There's no use violation. There are no dimensional violations. But for the exceeding the height of the building existing on the lot that would be demolished, this is a feature of Article 68 section 29 of the code. The South Boston article whereby any building existing on the date of the in this case, the amendment back in 2017 that has demolished a new structure on the site, cannot exceed that existing building's height. The existing building was approximately 30 feet. This building is proposed at 39 and a half feet. Otherwise, the maximum building height in the MFR 7 district in South Boston is 40 feet. So it is under actually the dimensional table height or building the FAR is 1.97. This violation attributable to exceeding the height of an existing building is not a variance standard. Rather, it's a conditional use only. That is the only relief thing. With that, I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, a corner, new with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. It's a back information and community process. ONS held the butters meeting on January 8. The meeting attendees appreciated the proposed green space with the trees as well as a part of this project. There was some concerns raised over the sidewalk extension. A butters asked for a construction management plan to manage traffic during construction. Other proponent responded to those concerns. The St Vincent Lower End Neighborhood Association indicated they had no objections to this proposal. As of last night, our office received no letters to support our opposition. I would that refer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Madam Chair, members of the board, Laura Toledana for Consul of the Friends Office. Consul of the Friends would like to go on record support based on a good community process. Positive feedback from neighbors on the parking of the budget and the St Vincent Lower End Neighborhood Association, who also reported no objections. Consul of the Friends respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors, A butters and the civic group on any quality of life issues that my allies during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. Chairwoman raised hand here. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is my up-to-risk and the carpenters in you. Would I go on record support or this break? No additional resistance. Okay. Would that may have a motion? I'm awful for our motion for approval with a proviso that the plans be submitted to the BVDA for Design Review and appears to need to address some consideration traced by the Disability's Commission. Is there a second? Back in. Mrs. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. We have one more case before a break. So I hope our article 80 applicant will work with us on that. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. That would be actually our way and the pandemic is first being its BOA 156-660. The number of cases is 6602 with the address of 1180 to 1194 Bennington Street. Along with that, we have case BOA 156-3606 with the address of 1200 to 1200-8 Bennington Street. The applicant in or the representative of his friend explains the point. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Collins, 245th Summars Street, East Boston, on behalf of the petitioner, GVW, Incorporated. With me is also Nick Landrieve from Design Resource Team, who is the project architect. And to your comment, I hope this one is much more straightforward than past our ladies, Madam Chair. If we could jump right down to slide four, I can do a quick overview. Madam Chair, I would like to work with this project, but the MBTA rule line has less than 100 yards from the interested staff downstairs. We propose a demolish and existing commercial industrial building and replace it with two new TOD mixed-use buildings, which will contain a total of 40 residential units, with 17.5% of the leaves restricted under the city guide EP, with a maximum of AMI of 78% for six of the units, and 100% for one unit. There will be a total of 20 parking spaces, some bike storage, robberful retail, and amenity space. So we can jump back to slide two quickly. Because this will have a gross worry of approximately 49,000 square feet, this project does exceed the thresholds for an hourly review, requiring the proposed on-going small project review. We have diligently participated in that process with BPD staff, as well as the community. We've done that for the better part of last two and a half years, Madam Chair. We did conclude that that process ultimately last fall. The conclusion of that process, and although not required, since more than 45 days have passed since the filing of our small project review application, we did obtain hourly certification of the BPDA on November 60th last year. Jump out of slide five please. So just a street view from Bennington Street, you can see the existing, mostly one story existing commercial building. As I said, this is used as the base of operations for GVW, which operates a construction company out of this site. The site itself is over 27,000 square feet, and we propose obviously demolish the existing building, the two story building blocks that will left as well. Next slide please. Different view, we can probably go one more slide after that. As such, the view looking down Bennington Street, for context, this is located on the oriented section of these spots, and it's close probably as you can get to the rear of water. So pretty distant area of these spots, but someone emerging every one of the number of projects that's been improved in the immediate vicinity. Next slide please. Before we get to that, I'm going to get over to Nick Landry, just jump back to the zoning slide for slide three. I can run through the zoning analysis quickly, and I'm going to let Nick just talk a little about the building program. So currently, and again, I apologize for the board if I sound like a broken record on these. We are in that transitional phase between a BPD recommendation for Plenty Sposton, which has been adopted by the BPDA, most recent amendment being adopted a few weeks back. Coron article 53 does not permit multi-family use. It would limit the FAR to 2.0, a high-level building 35 feet, and also would require parking at the rate of two spaces free and a plus anything for retail. Plenty Sposton recommends changes to the Saratovian Street BDA, which essentially once adopted would actually make this project by right. It would point out that the changes under the new zoning would allow for multi-family use in CDA. We do not have any requirements as is currently the case for lot size, lot width, front yard or side yard. However, we do provide side yard and left of 45 feet of a right of 10 feet. With respect to rear yard, currently a 20 foot setback is required in the CDA, but however, we are able to take advantage of the shallow lot exception because the lot is less than 100 feet depth. That will continue under new zoning so the 10 foot setback remains compliant. With respect to floor ratio, the new regulations on the CDA actually increases the maximum FAR to 2.5. We are compliant because we are at 2.25. High, what crime would the most significant changes in the CDA is increased for this area, up to 65 feet. The number of stories we are proposing is at 6. There is a maximum number of five stories that set forward and proposed amendment. It's Article 53, however, where projects that proposed to add additional forward and forward will have a say above the IDP requirement are eligible to add an additional story on the Nick or Quash Street splans. It's a very small area that fits up to a sixth level. Last but not least, I would point out in the middle of parking, the change under new Zeta, maybe is that minimum parking will be determined in connection with our L80. So in this case, because we are at work with the BPD and our L80 process, the number of spaces would be deemed to be compliant, providing the certification allowed for that number of spaces. It would also point out for the Board that we've grown this up a lot. Lot coverage and lot permeability. The end of the EDA is not regulated as it is in other districts under the new planning spots and recommendations. However, we do have a substantial amount of permeability on the site, which doesn't present the exists. So with that, I'm going to hand over to Nick Landry to run through briefly the building program. And I mean, I'm answering questions to the conclusion of his presentation. Thank you, Richard. Nick Landry from DRT, or the Architects on the project. I think can we start on slide 11? You could scroll down just a little bit. So this is the site here, Bennington Street along the front of the runner here, the building on the left-hand side. We've been calling building A and the building on the right-hand side, building B. In the building A, there's 22 units with a retail space along the ground floor, some bike storage areas along the ground floor as well. And a gym for the documents of the building. Building B has 18 units with, again, some retail space and some amenities space on the first floor. Can we go to the slide 13, please? Here's a proposed site plan. You can see building A on the left and building B on the right-hand side, Bennington Street along the bottom of it, and BTA tracks along the rear of the site. All the way to the plan left, building A is a bike storage room, which we'll get into in a second. And there's also some parking along the back side of the first floor that's going to be accessed by a curb cut all the way to the right-hand side of the site. You can see the frame between the buildings. You can see the landscape area. And there's going to be landscaping proposed all along Bennington Street. We're going to be cleaning up that sidewalk and complying with the visitor parking for bicycles as well. You go to the slide 15, please. There's a large plan kind of showing that bicycle parking area that's all the way to the left of building area. It's showing them a violet. I'm a plan dude. We'll have parking for about 60 bikes for residents and 10 bikes, 10 for visitors. We'll go down to the slide 18, please. Here are the elevations of both building A and the left and building B on the right. Building A, as Richard had mentioned, is a total of six floors. And you can see it kind of steps. The floor plates get smaller as you go up the top floor game as follows. I had about 65 feet and building B is a four-story building that's roughly 54 feet. I need to see the materials in both building buildings relayed, but they're they're pliable differently. We can go to slide 20. Here, the intent was to break up the facade of the building with a few different material types, but using some materials that did read kind of like a cedar shape or cedar shingle, there'll be a synthetic material. We also used some standing seam metal and some composite siding on the lower floors. And the view to Boston is actually kind of down plan. So the angle of the angles you see on this facade, kind of angle that view toward the city skyline. If we go to slide 21, please. And again, this is building B roughly reusing similar materials so the building is kind of like a cohesive project together. I mean, it's actually nice to use something that kind of mimics a cedar shingle shape look along with some brick and there's going to be some standing seam as well. And then I think slide 22 is just an overall rendering of the entire project. So you can see building a and B from from a couple different angles with that landscape area in the middle between the two buildings. And I think that's it Richard. Thank you Nick. And I will pause the madam chair to see if there any questions or comments on the board that we can address. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any questions from the board. All right. Hearing none. I have full of testimony. Madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor of the Southamberhood Services. This time mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment that sport. And I think that's the purpose of the proposal went through a lengthy degree process that involved two community meetings. The applicant then went on to meet with the orient high neighborhood council in October of 2020. It looks like the group wanted to oppose the project one in favor of 38 opposed. Regarding what they feel is not enough parking based on the amount of units. And as well as constraints with the height. As I mentioned others went to a full B period process. Our two public meetings. That will defer to the board. Thank you. You. Sebastian. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to go through with continued design. Second. Mr. Temperidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Alcindor. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. And with that we'll take a few minutes break. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.