 All right. Good evening, everyone. The city of Boston is only board of appeal hearing from May 18th, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge needs reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. All right, Mr. Stembridge. And before we begin, I will ask if there is any. Sorry, take your roll call first. I just want to jump ahead. Sure do. President Madam Chair. Thank you. Ms. Bethe-Barraza. President Madam Chair. Thank you. Floor is now yours. Thank you. Before we begin this evening, we will ask if there are any withdrawals, what their furls that will be requested from this evening's hearing. Hearing none. We will move forward. First, we have case B-O-A, 145. 1404 with the address of 46 cross-town avenue is the applicant for their representative. I just want to say a different. I'm sorry. Is the applicant present? Hi, I'm on the contract representing 46 cross-town. Excellent. Are you doing the presentation? Yes, I am. Can you identify yourself and put your address into the record? Yes, my name is Owen Murray. I'm the contractor for 46 cross-town avenue. Great. Please let us know what your request is. So currently the house is a two-bedroom ranch and they want to raise it up another level to create a colonial. Essentially, they are a two-and-a-half story home. It's currently just two bedrooms. They want to make it into four bedrooms. The attic won't have any use except for storage. And right now, just a refusal is for the inefficient insufficient side yard. There's plenty of backyard space and all that. Other than that, there's nothing too crazy on this house here. Thank you. Any questions on the plans? No, it's great, Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Sorry, hearing none. There you go, Connor. We'll go to public testimony. My apologies, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The Madam Mayor's Office, like to defer to the judgment of this board, our office conducting the butters meeting where neighbors were vocally in support of this proposal. The applicant then went on to meet with the West Rocks for the Neighborhood Council, which supported the proposal unanimously. With that, we defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Jody, have you looking to give testimony here? Hearing no other testimony. I have no. Oh, you're looking to give testimony for this proposal? No, not this proposal. I'm sorry. I was late on the deferral. I have two things on the agenda that I want to get deferred. I thought. Well, let's finish the vote here. First, Mr. Bonnell. Thank you. Okay. So, with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDAT Design Review. May I have a second? Second. Great. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Have a good evening. All right. So, we'll let Mr. Bonnell see because the furls. If he's ready. Hi. Thank you. Yeah. We're on for 109 Salem Street and 111 Salem Street. Okay. But the last two cases. Yes. We wanted to defer those two hearings. We still have to get community input. Just need to read the BOA into the record. So those would be. So those two cases would be case B, first would be case BOA, 134, 0198 with the address of 109 to 109, a Salem Street. And along with that would be case BOA, 134, 0204 with the address of 111 to 118, Salem Street. Right now we have. Right now, the next available date would be June 15. If that is suitable, if you think you'll have the meeting, I'm in doubt what you need to do by that point. Okay. And what's the next meeting date after that? The next date would be July 20. All right. Let's put it on for June 15. June 15. Okay. So with that, may I have a motion? I'm sure I'd like to put forward a motion of deferral. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bezzar-Barrazo. Yes. Sure. Also loads. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Okay. Have a good weekend. Okay. Next, we will move on to case BOA, 1350407. The address being 44R Warley Street is the applicant or the representative president. Can you raise your hand if you're any attendee section and you you hear for that hearing? Any raise, Nascah? No. Okay. We can keep moving and circle back. Okay. Next, we have case BOA 81068. The address being 676 to 680 Truman Parkway. It's the applicant and or their representative president. Yes. Hi. Can you identify yourself and your name for the record? Address for the record? I just promoted and do a panelist, Madam Chair, so maybe he might just go right back in. And this sounds good. Donald, are you here? Yes, I am. And you're I didn't. Yep, that's fine. Can you identify yourself and your address for the record and and then just see? My home address or business? Whatever address you want to give us. Well, I am Donald Ormond. My home address is 22 Schlag or Av, Quincy Massachusetts, so 169. And what's your request? We are looking to transfer the license from the previous operator at 680 Truman Parkway. To our name. And is the use going to be the same? It is. Okay. Any questions from the board? No questions. Okay. Thank you. Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony if there is any. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services and a butters meeting with held on March 22nd for this proposal and the applicants did reach out to the West FAMOIL community group and our office has received no opposition or concerns regarding this proposal. So at this time, we wish to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. And can I have no raised hands? Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion to approve the applicant to remove the provide so of this petition only. Thank you, ma'am. I have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 143-2868 with the address of 242 FAMOIL Avenue is the applicant for the representative president. My name is Hannah FAMO. Can you hear me? Yes. I'm the owner of 242 FAMOIL APP. I'm here to ask for a change of occupancy into a into a two family. No construction is proposed. May I continue speaking with the relief? Yes, please proceed. So I want to ask the board to release the violation of waving the land violation. As you can see, our land is over 7,000, thousandths wide feet of land. So we have a lot of green space. So I want to ask the relief for the land violation. The second violation I want to ask for to wave is two family and one family's own. On the street, there's multiple existing multi-family already. So I just want to ask the board to wave that to make us become two family also. The last violation is the violation of parking. And it's parking in front yard. Can I please ask who share my screen with the actual picture of the car with the parking? We can't share screens. But the main I think the photograph or the images here that we need. So if you want to speak to that. Okay, so the parking is already there. So we just want to make it so that we can park into parking number three. There is already existing curb cut. So we don't need to request any additional curb cut. And we have plenty of space to go in and out between the two cars. Parking number two and parking number three. So since this is already exists, there's no detrimental to the neighbors. And we actually taking away three parking on the street, especially this on the street. There's no snow parking when it's a snow band. We cannot park outside. So making this parking legal world help very benefit to the people that live on the in the house. We do have a lot of buffer zone on the left and also like entering. So I'm asking permission to to give us legalize the parking. So can I ask so right now your garage accommodates one spot. Is that correct? Yes. And so what I'm hearing is you're already using the the driveway in front of the garage or a second car. Is that right? Yes. So parking one and parking two will be for the first unit. And parking three will be for the two for the second unit. What are you doing to fit that third spot? Because right now I see a driveway. So are you like flattening out your front yard to do that? It's actually if you look at the picture, the actual picture that I took a picture of the cars. It's I'm sorry you didn't there. I submitted with the I didn't know you didn't have the picture. So the car the parking number two and parking number three can enter without interference with each other because I'm draw the drive driveway is why enough to allow a suit park to drive into parking two and parking three without interference. Other questions from the board? So in terms of the two units, those are existing units. You have two families in this in this structure, correct? Yes, it is. And so you were cited for violation, correct? This house you so I have an ADU. So I I want to legalize it as a two family. Okay, so you have an existing kind of ADU. You have one unit plus an ADU. How come you didn't submit drawings? I'm sorry, but you do have drawings. Yes. So which one is the ADU? So you have one on the first floor and then you have unit two on the second floor. Yes, yes. Which one is the ADU? The AU is number one. The ADU is for the first one. Yes. And when was that approved? That was approved in 2019. Okay, so just just in terms of my colleagues just so they know I was looking at the zoning viewer and you are correct that on a 237 fair amount, even know its zone as 1F9000, I looked up at the assessors and that's a four to six family apartment unit. So I just want to let my colleagues know that. Okay, great. I don't have any further questions. You have questions on the parking? No, I did CBPDA's recommendation to eliminate those two spaces, space two and three. Thank you, but norm any notes from Bob Domingo on the None. My question would be so those units, those parking spaces are part of the front yard? Or no, it's actually a draw up. It's actually a driveway. It's paid. And right now, I'm sorry because you didn't have the picture and I hope I can share my screen. There's no work on the driveway. It's paid. The curve cup is there and it's allowed us to enter parking two and parking three without needing any additional work. I think it's a semantic issue. You're calling it a driveway, but from the BTD perspective, that's considered a front yard. Madden here. Yes. I apologize. We do have something from Bob Domingo from Boston Transportation. And he wrote that 242 Fairmont Street needs more detail on how the cars will be parked as well as access and egress to the parking area. If I can share my screen, I can show you. Can you share your screen? I'm sorry. That's just not possible. Sorry. I did mail a letter together with the pictures beforehand. I'm not sure that you didn't have it. To show you the actual image of the any thoughts from the board as to how to proceed. Do you want to defer until you see the detail from BTD? I'm okay with making a motion, but there were some letters of support on file. Okay. And there was Mr. Domingo also wrote that in terms of please remove space three. So I think we need to revisit this somehow from where I can. Great. Any public testimony? Yes. Good evening. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I held in a butters meeting on February 16th. One of the butters that was present at this meeting did have concerns about some debris and the backyard that was building up that they felt could be a hazard or just deemed an eye sore for them. The applicants did reach out to the fair amount and West Fairma Hill community groups regarding their proposal. And we've received no letters of opposition or support. So at this time, we wish to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have always hands. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'm sorry, Madam Chair. One other question. There is an on-street parking, correct? That is allowed. May I speak? I'm sorry. There is on-street parking. So you can park on the street? Yes, but during the snowman, we cannot park on the street. Okay. Thank you. That's motion. Yep. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion with motion of approval with a proviso, which is to eliminate parking space number three. And tell the occupancy to be a two family, so it can be. So it doesn't have to be cited. Okay. With that, may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bedaburaza. Yes. The Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case BOA, 143, 6317. The address of 38 Taunton Avenue is the applicant for their representative president. Yes. This is Gloria Weeks and James Goodwin is also on the line. No capital construction. Great. Can you share what you're proposing? What relief you need? I believe he's going to speak. Is does he have, does he have access? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. James go right ahead. I'm sorry. Keep. Is he there? He's coming back as a headless one, I'm sure. Okay. Thank you. James, you're there. You can unmute yourself. You hear me now? Yes, sir. Okay. So yeah, we're just asking. So we're building a deck on the back of the house. It's 12 by 12. We're 12 feet four inches from the third. I'm sorry, 13 feet from the property line of the fence. And we had a but as meeting. And we didn't have any objections to any of the abutters ejecting to what we wanted to propose and do. Any questions from the board? And questions pretty sure. Any public testimony? Evening Madam Chairman, Mr. The Board, Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And the butters meeting was held on March 13th. And our office has received no opposition or concerns regarding this proposal. And at this time, we wish to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands. With that, may I have a motion? I don't share like before a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1449055. Adress being 34 Halsies Road. Is the applicant or their representative present? Present. Great. You put your name and address in the record and just briefly share with us what you're proposing. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Fenson Bradley. I'm an architect representing the property owned in this heron. Thank you for this opportunity. My business address is 234 West Center Street, Uniforteen West Bridge Road. Today, we are here seeking relief for zone of violations that pertains article 69, section 9 of the zoning code. Specifically, we are seeking variances, the three aspects. Assess the floor error ratio, and service and side yard, and service and rear yard. The zone is sub-district for this property is 1F6000. The existing parcel, a lot of question, measures approximately 5,220 square feet, and the current living space is 1224 square feet. We are seeking relief for the first for the floor area of violation. The current zone allows 0.5. We are actually seeking 0.4. So there's question to this violation. However, we acknowledge that this modification may result in the floor error ratio violation, where we are seeking confirmation on this matter. Additionally, we're seeking relief for insufficient side yard. The current zone requires 10 foot, where we're proposing 6 foot side yard. And finally, on the inefficient rear yard, the current requires 40 and we're proposing 24 foot rear yard. Now, let's discuss the project itself. The project involves addition to the back of a residence, specifically in this extension on the kitchen, to create a family room on the first level, and there will be a master bedroom on the second level. The intention is to accommodate the needs of the owners growing third generation family. I believe it's important to note that owner has been actively involved in this process for quite some time. They have residing the house for 29 years, they have a genuine need for expansion. The decision-tone block in this project is made at the careful consideration of consultant. In fact, the property owner has proactive leave reached out to his name, the community groups and neighbors, both direct and butters who are expressed their support for the project. Additionally, it ought to prepare an informational flyer and successfully acquire signatures for the plants. So I want to emphasize that Fenson Bradley D21 did not draft the drawings for this project. Presentation is based on drawing provided by the owner. As the current architect, I was brought on to assist with the zone of relief aspect. With that, I conclude my presentation available to address any questions. Thank you, Mr. Bradley. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, I don't have any questions other than some of the feedback from the letters I received. Any Mr. Semberg? Any questions? Not this time, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I guess I just wanted the applicant to address concerns and issues over a lot of trash that had been noted from the nearby residents if they can address that. Yes, I have spoke with the owner and the contractor. They will be working on this project of review demolition plans and waste management plans with them. I spoke to the owner again about the the neighbor complaint and he believes it was unrelated to this project. Okay, no further questions. Thank you. Okay, may I have a public testimony? Evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Danielle Fonseca with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I held in a butters meeting on June 27th for this and a butter that was present at that meeting who also sent in a letter of opposition address concerns for potential parking increase increase in road activity in the neighborhood due to what they stated was improper disposal of garbage at the property. We've received letters or excuse me signatures and support that were sent to the board for review as well. The applicants have also been in contact by email with the West Faire and Mout community hill group and at this time we've restricted for a judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands. Okay, so that may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval and also would like to make note that the applicant continues to work with its neighbor to address some of their concerns in terms of an abundance of trash in front of their property. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Chair also looks yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Next we have next we have case BOA 1455105 with the address of one maintenance street is the applicant or their representative present? Yes. Can you state your name and address for the record and share with us what you're proposing? Hi, my good evening. My name is Stefan Gillens. I'm the owner of 109 Bayman Street. What I'm proposing is a Zillowka adjoining. It's right now. It's a single formula it's one story and I'm trying to do it's still going to stay as a single family but I'm trying to do all two stories with a master bedroom master bathroom upstairs with two additional bedroom and the second level or the violation I have on this room is on the left hand side to my neighbor it's under 10 feet and the new proposal I did it that the new proposal in conform with the 10 feet from the left side of my neighbor. So I'm trying my best to do to accommodate for the setback that I don't have on the existing right now and the next violation I have is on the front where the front should be 27 feet away from the street. Now I don't have that but I'm not doing any extra work on the front is just going to be at the back and also I'm going on going up one story. So it's going to be a two story property. I'll ask Miss Beduraza to speak more on this but it does look like the mostly one story in your immediate vicinity. Can you I don't know Miss Beduraza you want to elaborate? Well I haven't had a chance to look at its context but I could blow it up. I mean my question deals more with the habitable basement so in regards to your basement what is the height and what is grade on the exterior? The existing height right now is some feet on four inches and the new proposal I'm going to make it to the eight feet. And the grade is I'm not sure about the grade is so the grade on the exterior so for example right now you're just showing oh so there's a door to the so from where the bedrooms are from the finished floor of the interior where is the grade on the exterior do you have a sense? But that isn't walk out correct to be a walk out to the grade? Yes on the exterior? Yes. You have two means of egress one is from me from that outside and then going up to stairs? Yes. Okay. And then to answer your question Madam Chair yes most of the most of the neighborhoods one one to have stories. Yeah because I want to I guess I maybe it was not clear to me in the relief thought it did not describe a second story it mentions extending basement living so I don't know if I missed something on that or if that was just ambiguous. No I think the like the requested stuff I don't not the not that they're not it's okay to propose the height because they're not in violation of height so that means it's it's allowed. Okay got it. Your relief has to do more with setbacks. Okay any other questions from the board? Okay. Can I hear that he was that he was able to come up with 10 foot clearance on the side of the house? Yes. Okay. Okay. That's the only question I have. With that, man, public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the boards and Yelphan Saka, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicants completed the community process on March 29th and they notified all the abutters. We've received no letters of opposition or support at this time for this proposal. So at this time we'd wish it a further judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Thank you. Would that man have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion approval with BPD a design review and that no building code relief be granted. Man have a second. Second. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have face BOA 1442463. With the address of 10 Manastry is the applicant or their representative president? Hello, Madam Chair. My name is Tony Riley. I'm an attorney and I represent the applicant in this matter. My office's address is 10 Enterprise Street in Ducksbury, Massachusetts. If you want to walk us through your request? Sure. So in September of 2020, my client Mr. Honezki had to remove a pre-existing deck off the back of his property as a result of a failing retaining wall that a contractor that he hired discovered and it kind of set off a chain of events where the retaining wall was failing, causing the deck to pull away from the house and the deck was also supporting a three-season porch from the backyard on the second floor of the property. So he got the retaining wall work done and then this is the process to finish fixing his backyard to replace the deck and the reason why we're here is that there's a 10-foot setback in this district. He initially applied for a building permit before retaining my services and was unaware that he first needed permission from the board to reconstruct his non-conforming deck. So the building permit was denied. So we appealed the building permit then I'll just to reserve our rights on the issue and then we also requested from this hearing process the permission from the board to build his deck which is actually going to be less non-conforming than the original deck was. Because all this sort of happened a couple years ago on a somewhat emergency basis there's no plans that depict the original deck but I submitted some aerial photographs and other pictures that show what it used to look like and there's an aerial photograph that shows that the original deck was basically right up on the property line probably you know from bird's eye view of foot foot and a half away and as you see the deck here is about seven feet away and then there's a bump out close to the side of the property where it provides access to the backyard. As it stands now the only access to the backyard is either through the front door and around the house or Mr. Hanyaski has to go down through his basement and out the back door because the backyard is down gradient about a story from the street level so we need a relief from the board to build this deck as is designed on the plans in front of you but all he's requesting is to reconstruct an already non-conforming deck that he had removed for structural and safety reasons from his house. If any questions from the board? No questions. Hearing none can I have public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services this time Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office held in butters meeting where no butters were in attendance. The applicant then went on to meet with the Civic Association which in this area is the Pope's Hill. They had no concerns with the proposal and our office later received one letter of support. With that we deferred to the board this time. Thank you. If I may just quickly I know the Neighborhood Association received one letter of support. We've included two that were submitted directly to Mr. Hanyaski and importantly they're the two directed butters on either side that would be most affected by this project so that's also in the board's record. Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to before I motion of approval. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge? Second. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betabraza? Yes. Chair also wants yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we excuse me. Next we have case BOA 1434443. The address being 26 speed well street is the applicant or the representative? Yes. I'm going to it's Eric Adavis. I'm going to have my representative. Chair of blank speaker on my behalf. Just because he hears you a panelist. They shift. They're not. I see the one in the madam chair. I am I'm on now. Okay great can you state your name and just for me. Yes my name is Trevor Blake and the contractor for 26 speed well. My clients purchased the property and the basement was a usable space at the time. However through the permit process we found that the basement was never done legally. And so we're seeking relief to allow us to use the basement as part of the first floor unit. We have an FAR violation. I think it requires point eight and we are point nine. And so on that note we're asking for relief. And what's the plan for the basement family room? It's it's it's we have two bedrooms down there and a bathroom and a laundry facility which would be part of the first floor. We we have already put in the egress windows because we thought we would have we could have we have a a short form that we've been working on and when we realize we needed to legalize this space we we put in for the for the long form and realize we have an FAR issue and that's why we have come before the board for relief. Any other questions from the board? I don't have any questions what actually I do what's the height of the basement? It's an excess of seven feet. It's an excess of what? Seven feet. So okay great no further questions. Yes it means all the requirements. What are the means of egress out of the basement? Well we have we have a a means of egress through we have two windows from from each each bedroom egress windows and we also have a bulkhead area that we will be opening up to allow for a direct means of egress from from the basement to the outside order than the bedrooms. It is part of the first floor and so we also have egress through the first floor to the outside. So we have many forms of egresses there. Thank you sir. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office would like to defer to the judgment of this board. It's back information in the community process. Our office held in a butters meeting. Noah butters were in attendance. The applicant then went on to meet with the civic association which is the meeting house Hill where they offered their support for this proposal without we defer to the board. Thank you. Do I have no raised hands? Thank you with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. This is better Brazza. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you very much. Good evening. Next we have case BOA 134 9736 with the address of 906 Rochester Avenue is the applicant for the representative president. We are. Good evening Madam Chair members of the board. My name is James Christopher 686 Architects with the business address of 1156 go to the route before you tonight is 906 go to the route at the board of chair jock and see from office to a nail salon. The only violation is the use is conditional in this location. We held in a butters meeting back in September. There was no opposition. We met with Columbia satin Hill project as well received the intent is to have six manicure stations, seven panicure stations, four drying stations, three waiting seats and one receptionist. The hours of operation will be Monday through Saturday 10 am to 7 pm with Sunday hours to be determined based on need and demand and the relationship with the community. And the total likelihood will be 34 with the average it dissipated at 25. Thank you. Any questions from the board? What's your height and the basement? I don't have the dimensions on here but it's almost 9 feet. It's over. It's terrible. Okay great. I don't know for no further question. Thank you. Madam Chair so at this point it's currently a retail space and it will be refined to for the nail salon. No further question. Thank you. Would that may have public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office is like to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation there was no butters meeting held and they also connected with the local civic association. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time with that we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have to have the old days hands. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Brasa. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next we have next we have case BOA 144 3133 with the address of 34 McMaride Street is the applicant and or their representative present. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of board. I'm Attorney Justin Burns. Business address 10 forms road for entry and Massachusetts. I'm here on behalf of the owners of 34 McMaride Street. This project is proposal to erect a second story edition onto an existing single family home in a 3 F 5000 district and to make a plane. The additional would include a new primary bedroom full bathroom and expanded existing bedroom on the second floor. The proposed edition with total 409 square feet bring the total structure size to 1937 square feet. We were cited for one violation of the zoning code that is for a side yard setback. According to the code structure must be seven feet from the side lot line and ten the feet from the existing structure on an abutting lot. Our west setback is four four feet and ten inches and five feet nine inches. This is a pre-existing non conformity. The house exists at the setback currently. The addition as proposed would not affect the setback it would neither increase it nor decrease it. Additionally the abutter would be most impacted by the setback is an in approval of the project and I believe he also submitted a letter of support. We went through a length of time. We did the community process. We did the buddhist meeting where there was project was positively received. We also went in front of the JPMC and the project was approved by now. This time I'll pause to answer any questions from board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions. Appreciate for you. With that may I have a public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation, Owen has conducted a full community process. The abutters meeting was held on March 16th where no concerns were raised and understand that residents were supportive. The applicant then went on to meet with the JPMC's zoning committee which voted to approve the proposal. With that we deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no raised hands. With that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I'd like to put forward a motion to approve. We'll vote with BPDA Design Review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. It's better Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case BOA 143 1939 with the address of 64 Harvest Street is the applicant and or their representative. I am. My name is Diane Bailey on the owner of 64 Harvest Street apartment 3. Can you share with us what your proposal? Sure. I am looking to put a roof back exclusive to just my unit on the roof. The zoning violation is a side yard insufficient side yard on both the left and the right that I'm looking for relief. I had in a butters meeting no one showed or no one was present. I met with my local civic association and I passed that vote. I also have written letters from the other two condo owners in the building as well as all four of my houses on all four sides of that they do not oppose that they are okay with me putting on my roof deck. The largest roof deck? Size 150 square feet I believe. Currently the plan you're seeing. Yeah. Any questions from board? I don't have any any questions other than if it's a private deck for the last unit and is preferable to have an internal stair. I did work very hard with my architects and I was with you. I vehemently opposed having a spiral staircase but it was the only option in the end. We could not find any other reasonable way to get up there without me losing living space inside my unit. Any other questions from the board? With that may I have public testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant they went through a full community process with ONS. No residents attended our a butters meeting and expressed any concerns and were unaware of any concerns at this time. The applicant also went on to meet with the McCormick Civic Association which opted to support this proposal. With that we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no way of saying. Thank you. Okay with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with a motion of approval with a provisal that the roof be accessed through an internal staircase and hatch. Okay with that may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Second. I'm yet to say yes. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Federal Rosa. Yes. Okay Chair votes yes motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 1452730 with the address of 509 East First Street. Is the applicant and or their representative present? Yes. Hi. Yes can you put your name and address into the record and explain? Yes. Yes. Joanne Camporis and I'm currently renting a space at 509 East First Street in South Boston and I'm looking to have a certificate of occupancy change. It is currently listed as commercial and I'd just like to have it converted to beauty. It looks like there's no internal work. No construction. It's just small furniture being moved in, shelving units and stools. I'm a licensed esthetician and a browse specialist and makeup artist. So minimal equipment is going in. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none may I have public testimony. Good evening Madam Chair members of the board. I'm Anna White with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh and I said the proponent flyer of others and inform the gate of heaven neighborhood association about their proposal. We are unaware of any concerns at this time. We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. Oh, there is one raised hand here. Laurie, you looking to get testimony here? Hi, yes. My name is Laura Toledano and I'm here representing council president Flan because I'm a calderon. Could it make it tonight? I just want to go a record to say that council president Flan is in support of this proposal. Thank you. Will you stand on the make your panelists? I have no additional reasons. That may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion. Madam second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is Betapuraza? Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Have a great night. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 14442810. With the address of 551 East Fist Street. Is the applicant and or their representative? Yes, the applicant speaking, Rory Kloon at currently living around the corner in East Seventh Street. We are looking to renovate 551 East Fist Street for our growing family, two toddlers and a third on the way in a month. I will pass to our architect, Bond Worthington, who's on to speak to the specifics. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board, Bond Worthington Architect, business address of 110A, Inman Street, Cambridge, Mass. The scope of work for this project is reframing the roof at a higher elevation, added to gormors. It's a vertical addition in the rear about the existing first floor footprint and a two-story vertical addition to the East. Vialations were being cited for article 68, Section 29. It's a roof proposed roof for configuration. Any reconfiguration to the existing roof requires zoning board of appeal relief as well as maximum height for the roof is being exceeded under that same Section 29. In this case, any increase to the existing roof requires zoning relief, although we're well under the 40 foot allowable height for the neighborhood. We're also being cited for insufficient side yard setback to the west. The existing house is 1.1 feet from the property line. We're not proposing to move the house, however, the dormer work and the vertical addition in the rear is still in that same footprint and the required distance from the property line is 3 feet and we're at 1.1. The final violation we've received is insufficient off-street parking, although we have close, we have about 39 feet in the side yard that we're being cited for tandem parking and overall length still able to fit one car, potentially two cars in the space provided. We feel the project really fits in the neighborhood. There's other examples of projects like this in the neighborhood. They immediately decide to house as well, fits the streetscape. We're not exceeding height of other buildings around us, etc. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Adam Chair, I don't have any questions. Pretty truthful. Okay, will that may have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office to defer to the judgment of this board are office-held and butters, meaning on March 13th. There was one butter in the rear who expressed some concerns, but many other butters on the call express support for the proposal, citing the opportunity for a family to move into the street, as well as referencing the work being done fairly in line with other properties adjacent to it. The applicant also reached out to the local neighborhood association for the area and was in communication with them. Without we defer to the board at this time. Thank you. We also have several letters of support. Yes, my apologies. There's also five letters of support that were afforded to our office and I believe we afford those to the board as well that should have access to those. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Hi, Derek. Are you looking at the testimony here? Yes, my name is Eric DeFail. I'm at 553 East Fist Street, so I'm on the east side of this project, and I reviewed the project with owners and my wife and I are in support of the project. Thank you. I have no one to fill with his hands. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval with people who need this on review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Bedbraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1428631. The address being 23 Hudson Street is the applicant or the representative president. Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair. My name is Jim Chen of JCBT Architect with the address of 585 Washington Street here in Quincy. I'm representing my tenant here tonight for 23 Hudson Street space. That space is originally part of the upstairs restaurant kitchen, and now the tenant is doing a tenant fiddle for this 1100 square feet for a bakery, proposing a bakery with no seedings in the space. What's no seedings and it's for a bakery. Thank you. I may answer any additional questions. Thank you. The space is currently part of another space. It wasn't used itself as some sort of retail. It was originally a kitchen for the upstairs restaurant. Any other questions from the board? I do have a question in terms of this is now a bakery, correct? It is a bakery. You said it was part of a kitchen. It was part of the kitchen. It was used as a kitchen for the upstairs. Currently it's vacant. Right. So what are you proposing? A bakery space. A bakery space, correct. And there's sit down. Drawing shows sit down by the way. The updated plan will not be any seedings. But you will be selling big goods. We'll be selling big goods, but there'll be no dining cities. So how are you dealing with accessibility issues? It's right next. It's not accessible. Majority of that. And previously didn't have to have public. If it was a previous kitchen, that's those were for the users. But if you're having sell goods, you would imagine that you need it to be accessible. Right. For the majority of the space around that area does not. When in the have that feasibility of having the accessibility to get down to that level. Because it's so close to the sidewalk. Have you done any work to your building that would trigger ADA compliance issues? And then there's a lot of renovation going on on that street. So including your building, I think. Right. Any other questions? Yes, that's right. Or Mr. Somerino further questions. So, um, Madam Chair. So this would be how will this be accessed? Will this be takeouts? Will this be delivery? For the other space? Takeout. So people will access it by stairs on the ground floor. So customer will access through that set of stairs at the front down five steps to get into this space. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Would that may have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, Sherry Dong and members of the board. This is true for a mayor's office and neighbor services. And a better's meeting was held by our office. And this proponent did go in from the Charter on Neighborhood Council in a Charter on Residious Association. There is no opposition from the neighborhood and they also have a lawyer support from the from Charter on Main Street. But that said, we would like to defer judgments for the board. Thank you. Hi, this is Laura Toledano from Council President's Office again. And I would like to go over record and support on behalf of Council President Flynn. Also about the previous one, I'm sorry, it went too fast. But for the five, five, one, E-Safe Street Council President will also like to go over record and support based on the good community process and feedback from the neighbors and the A-butters. Thank you. Thank you. Jim, you have a testimony here? He's the applicant. Okay, sorry, your hand is raised. I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. With that, man, motion. Madam Chair, I like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that it has no building code reliefs and then it also undergoes an accessibility review. Who does that just for our reference? That's just ISD. It's just, um, man, we're second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This is better, Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Next, we next and last, we have second to last. The warly is on. Ah, that's right. Thank you, Madam Chair. Ah, so once again case, be away, 1 3 5 0 4 0 7. Up. Address of 40 44 are warly street. Is the applicant or the representative president? Mr. Spitz present. It's if you're on, can you raise your hand? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm just not here for this proposal. I'm here for the rediscussion. That's why I. I'm sure does on Madam Chair, he gave us a comment. I have to allow him to talk and promote him to a panelist. Who are we talking about? Oh, we are. Are we on warly or are we on? We jumped back. We jumped back to the warly. I'm so sorry, Mr. Spitz apologies. Okay, 44 are warly. May you please proceed. Richard, you've been given panelist access. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay, sorry about that. Yeah, this is just a correct violation of garage. What you see there is the existing structure was already built. We did an addition on the garage. It was during covert. And now we have the violation. For the reasset back in this side yard. Okay, any questions from the board? I'm not very clear what the proposal is. So I'll go right because we did get a BPD a commenting that there were no adequate drawings for the projects. I just want to try to understand what's being proposed here. There was an extension on the garage that went back about 14 feet. It stayed the same with before was about 24 feet and now it's 36.8 feet total. Okay, do we have drawings of the existing and then proposed? No, it had been done prior. So this is more or less the correct violation. Oh, I see. So these are drawings of the existing conditions. Correct. The existing condition has already includes the extension that had been done prior. And so, and so can you remind me what the violations are? We had a ray yard set back on the side yard. Okay, so can you just quote what's required and what's the violation? And the ray yard was supposed to have 30 feet. We have 23. Okay, yeah, and this side yard, I believe it's, it was either nine or 10 feet. And it's 6.2. Okay, great. Thanks for clarifying. No further. We have a comment from Bob Domingo. God said his property. Well, actually that that 44-hour World of Street is okay. Thank you. All right, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office is referred to the judgment of this board. Initially some neighbors had some concerns regarding drainage, but the applicant worked to address those with neighbors at the aboutters meeting. Our neighbors were vocally supportive throughout the process and it was approved unanimously at the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council. Without we defer to the board. Thank you. Hey, Madam Chair, I have, well, do we have a race in France? Is he looking to give testimony here? Can you tell her it's okay? No, no, sorry. We just were having trouble getting on my computer. Okay, sorry about that. Yep, I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Thank you. With that, I have a motion. Madam Chair, I'm just going to put for a motion of approval. Okay, we have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For the final case on the discussion. It will be case BOA 140-5291. With the address being 924 East Forest Street. Is the applicant and the way they are representative present? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Meransey Business Adjus of 168H Street First Floor. Joining me today are the owners Mike and Mary Gallyhew, also joining us as Nick Landry, who is the architect. This is a proposal to renovate an existing one-family dwelling by adding shed dormers to both the left and the right hand side of the structure while maintaining the original slope, design and height. There will also be a rare addition along with garage parking for one vehicle in a dedicated paved area in the rear lot for a second vehicle. The project has undergone landmarks review and has been accepted by landmarks. We are in a multi-family residential sub-district with a lot size of approximately 4,795 square feet. If I can direct you to page 13 of the plans, this will be the first floor to the left of the entrance. There will be an outside patio surrounded by new trees to be less visual from the street. Within the structure, there will be an open living room, dining room and kitchen. To the rear will be a pantry, mudroom with a half bath. This will also lead into the garage space for parking for one vehicle in storage. Please also note in the rear of the property, the plans indicate they are providing outdoor paved space for another vehicle. This parking scheme triggers two violations. First violation being access stride with is less than 10 feet. This access is a pre-existing passageway by the name of Dean Way, which is a private way. All of budding owners, including this property owner, have deeded rights to use this 9-foot passageway for vehicular traffic. And the same manner as every other owner has, they access this current passageway to access the rear of their properties for parking as well. The second violation that we do have that was triggered, maneuvering areas on own lot. As the plan shows, we will have to reverse out onto Dean Way to exit the premises safely. I want to point out that Dean Way again is a private way maintained by all property owners, whether deeded rights to passage and other property owners that have this right of passage, use this passageway and the same manner as this property owner will do. If I could direct you to page 14, please. This was the second floor layout. There will be a master bedroom, second bedroom, and an office. Between the bedrooms, there's a small lounge area that will lead into an outdoor porch. Next page, I'm sorry. Yes, nope. Should be page, yeah, right here. This is this 14. Yep, page 14 right here. There a floor is on page 15, another bedroom with office in a family room that leads to an outdoor porch area. The remaining violations that we were cited for is we have a root structure restriction. We are adding donors to both the left and the right hand side as well as the proposed free story edition in the rear is what triggered it. We do have an insufficient side yard. The left side of the property is compliant at three feet, but the right side is a one foot of a budding the private way called Deanway, which is also pre-existing violation. We have an extension into the rear yard of 1,000 square feet or more as the edition that we're building is approximately 1,334 square feet. The last violation that we were cited for is insufficient rear yard. This property is measuring at 84 feet, which is considered under the shallow lot to mention, so we would be required to provide a 15 foot setback on the rear yard. We are just shy of that at 14 feet, 9 inches. At this point in time, I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions. Man, I'm sure you're muted. I'm so sorry. Any questions from the board? Do you need to take our space? Yes, we've got that there was a community benefit of having the two parking space, considering that we're not going to impact the neighborhood by removing any sort of parking from on-street. There is a husband and a wife, so again, that we would free up as far as the community benefit, and again, using the deeded right passage that we do have to allow for the parking in the rear. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? We do have a comment from Bob Domingo, Boston Transportation. Please. Going back to early March, he says, I can't improve 924 East Forestry. The turns are too tight and present a problem when backing up. This also presents a problem for passing pedestrians. Mr. Secretary, are those comments based upon the first original set of plans? Not being familiar with the dates involved. This was dated March 8th of this year. March 8th. Okay, so my assumption is that perhaps may have been his comments related to the first set of plans where they were showing some tandem spots that were actually pulling in. And again, we've removed some of those locations due to the deferral and working together with the neighbors and cleared up some potential issues with the neighbors of the tandem spaces as well, and then we allow for one in the rear. So I think maybe more or less his comments could be directed as far as the maneuverability, but again, just wanted to remind the board that maneuverability is onto a private way. Okay, well, we can't interpret which scenario, which plans he was commenting on at this point, but appreciate hearing them and understand that there's a nuance. Any additional questions from the board? Okay, would that may have public testimony? Evening that, I'm Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Oh, and I hosted two of butters meetings for 924 East Forestry, one on November 28th, 2022, and one on May 10th, 2023, both had around a dozen of butters between the two meetings. The proponent made changes to the proposed building based on community feedback and feedback, excuse me, feedback from the Landmarks Commission. The proponent answered all questions and responded to concerns about past management and shared responsibility for the private way behind the property. Concerns were raised about vehicle maneuverability in the private way. Oh, and that's to receive one letter of opposition and three letters of support from a butters. The proponent has been in contact with the City Point Neighborhood Association. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. This is Laura Toladana from Council President Fliss Office again. I would like to go and record and support based on feedback and support letters received from the neighbors and a butters. Moreover, there were compromises on both sides during the community process, regarding the portions, closest space, and an outdoor fireplace to name a few. Council President Flin, respectfully request that the proponent continues to work closely with the neighbors on any quality of life issues that might arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Any other reasons? Kevin, you looking to give testimony here? Yes, I was. My name is Kevin Joyce. I'm an attorney with Dirty Law Officers. At 50 Franklin Street in Boston, I'm representing the property owners and the butters at 918 to 920 East Fourth Street in on 4D in Bay. The requirement of our position is that the parking configuration is present. Not being contained to the light as is required by the zoning code has the potential for causing significant public safety issues on Dean, Dean Way, which is a very narrow private way. Parking is not a requirement of a renovation of a one-family building, which is supposed to be. There's never been parking on this particular site. It is on the mass housing historic commission list. And that the configuration just doesn't work. It just doesn't fit the neighborhood and it just doesn't fit the confines of Dean's way. And especially when there's no parking requirement, it seems to me that we're exasperating a narrow and unfortunate situation. And it's going to really cause a significant safety hazard if we allow it in its present configuration as it's presently proposed. That's the nature of our opposition. Straight out, it's just going to cause a public safety hazard. The cool responsibility to the lot to protect public safety and our potential for damaged property and personal injury. There is ample on street parking on East Forest Street. And yet there's no requirement for the parking and the way it's presently configured, we believe it's a safety hazard and will severely impact the ability of people to come and go on Dean Way without any threat of interference. Thank you, Mr. Joyce. Madam Chair May I respond? I just want to know if there are other raised hands and then we can turquoise circle back. I can't wait. Oh, there was just a raise hand that came up. Do you want to take it or? Yeah, let's just take finish the public testimony and then we'll have Mr. Spitz and Mr. Bethe Brasow. Yes. Who and can you say can I may add just for the record please? In brief, we go to the Wano Conner, President City Plain Neighborhood Association. I just want to go on record that the issue with this property right now seems to be the parking. The proponent has worked through several of the neighborhood issues regarding the height density, decking and the rear yard addition. So with that, the proponent did not come before the City Point Neighborhood Association and we just want to go on record now saying that we will take no opposition. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Bethe Brasow, the double. Yes, and just the response, I just want to know the record that the direct-sure-dee requiring motor vehicles in that passageway that's 10 feet. Is it currently active? Yes, it is. Okay, so it's already kind of an existing condition and then Madam Chair just had a chance to review the two parking layout structures, the two parking proposals, the previous and the current one, and the vulnerability has improved from the previous one. So and then also the BPDA comments seems like it's referring to the older set, but there has been significant preservation of the existing facade, which is a good improvement. Thank you. Mr. Bethe, do you want to follow up? Yes, there was a point that I wanted to make too that was just brought up is that currently there is active traffic. There's approximately about five neighbors who have this deeded passageway that currently are using it for their vehicles as well. So my client will not be using it in any different manner than what they are deeded for just like the other neighbors. Okay, so to clarify, when you say they're using it, they also have parking spaces on their property. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. Madam Chair, I would like to before a motion of approval with a proviso of BPDA design review and a second proviso to make sure that the the second parking space that's outside has permeable materials. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Steinbridge? Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barrosa? Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Great, thank you. All right, with that meeting adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. All right, have a good night.