 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you was not made aware of the opposition as expressed here today. I think that in consultation with my client, if that is to will in the void, we would like to have a deferral for some day in May so that we can have further conversation discussions with the voters and with the association and hopefully come back before this void with a favorable resolution. Thank you. Any questions or concerns about that from the board? I do not go ahead. Thank you. I don't have a concern about that request. I think this is an opportunity for the proponent to review the issue that the community mentioned and also to read the recommendation from the VP of the planning department about reducing the maximum, the parking lot, and especially allowing for better setbacks in opening space for the residents. Katie? I think I would just specifically focus on those setbacks and perhaps reconsider whether 15 parking spaces is appropriate for this use as that seems to be driving the floor plate and the design that results in these variances. So thank you. Thank you. Caroline, do we have dates of May? Yes, we can do May 6th or May 20th. Mr. Feaster, any questions? I know my client would want May 6th would be in that my other version would be that I would want to be able to go home. That sounds fair. I would say anyone might like to like I have to say I would take the May 20th date. Okay, would that be able to motion before? And your motion? Motion to the 3rd and May 20th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Steinbridge? Yes. Mr. Blantzia? Yes. Mr. We will. Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you very much. Have a good rest of the day. Next, we have the case of the委 1663367 for the ass. Excuse me. With the address of 50 Brad Pitt Street, 50 applicant and the government's name for the president, please excuse me. Okay, so there's a raised hand here. I'm so glad. Okay, amen. Let's get going. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is just money. I don't know. Are you here for 50 Bradley? I am here for 50 Bradley. Thank you. Please proceed. All right, so the proposed is it's so we did a subdivision of that land. There's currently on the right side from the picture here. Looking at now, you could see it's there. There's a kind of house there and so on the on the left side of where we're looking at now, on the right side's where we're going to put it's a two family dwelling that we were proposed to put there. I'll be living on the first floor and it's going to be family members on the second. So part of the issues were that the lot size. So I guess the city boss required a six six thousand square feet right at 52 square feet for the build. And this is going to be there's also a issue with the easement with the side of the the. The line with the neighbors of what the house is going to be. So it's to the set of cities the little to close because of the driveway size. And we're proposed to do an easement where we do like a share driveway and now that push the house a little bit for away from from from that side. But it's going to be. It's going to be a 18 hundred square foot living space. It's going to be four parking two parking per unit in the back of the house. And yeah, it's it's everything's going to be brand new brand new build. I know part of the issue was that it was a it was a zone to build in a zone one area. Although. From when I passed out the flyers and kind of a game as a property you are. The neighborhood there are a few quite a few two family homes in that area. Part of the proposal. Part of the idea of building something there is just my close ties to high part. My family's been in high part for you know very 40 years. And one actually that lives next to the house that current home in that law that was subdividing. And so part part of the reason behind it is plan having a baby at the end of the year. So we're going to be closer to my parents to her parents. You know that family on just a field street on West Street on the plod's at Avenue. So we're kind of just kind of want to want to want to build a home and it's going to be close to family. I live in the city of Boston. I'm not planning on going away. I do. And I work for the city of Boston. So I have to live in the city for 10 years. But I was born and raised here in Boston. So I had no plans to like move out of here. I'm definitely not years old. I like my city. I love my city. I think it's important to do these civic. I think it's important to have a community. Okay. On a board. Seven meetings for the neighborhood. The neighborhood inputs. I had no idea there existed. And so I have gone through this process and I think it's. It's genius. I mean, we get we get the chance to as a community to have inputs on these in a build. So. So you speak a little bit about parking. So the client department has a recommendation about reducing parking and increasing open space. And there are two different vehicles. There are two different vehicles on the street. And I think it's one of the things that you can do which is to do with your park. You know, what we're going to do is we're going to do this. Each apartment, each apartment in the back. I was going to have a deck. So they were going to have open space on the decks. And then the back of the back of the building is going to be two parkings per unit. So there's going to be plenty of space. The people on the park. There's not going to be, there's not going to be, you know, the street not going to fill with cars and like that. there from that picture on the right side. That would be the back of the building. So the first floor will have a deck and then the second floor will have a there to accept a deck as well. Any questions other questions from the board? If you're in that man public testimony. Madam on shadow members of the board. Sorry. Please proceed. Jeremy. Madam chair members of the board for the record my name is Jarry V. Bembery and behind part community engagement specialist for the office of neighborhood services the applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an a buttersweeting held on November 19th where a butters did make increase as to whether the property will be only rentals. Parking inquiries were also made regarding the impact on traffic as well as the construction time frame which were addressed on the meeting. The proposal then went before Rosemary Rusk and Delrood neighborhood association on January 14th where they voted to support the project. Thank you for your time in the Moose Officer Neighborhood Services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, Madam chair. We have no additional raise yes. Okay. So any other questions from the board? I do have one question. Yes, Mr. Are you planning to eliminate all of the yard space or will there be some yard space? That's a question to the proponent. Yes, it is. Yeah, so from from from the proposed from the planner right now there will be a lot of yard space and I'm pretty sure that there's going to be some greenery to the to the rear left side of it but not too much but they will have full access to their deck that open space for them back there again it's going to be family to my brother's wife going to be upstairs and I'll be downstairs on the first floor so it's going to be on our occupied. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a follow-up question on that so I see you have the four spaces in the back but I can't really tell the difference in materials so will that whole rear yard be paged? I think kind of what Ms. Turner was getting at too. Yeah that whole area back there is going to be I will say about 90% that will be paid to allow access for the vehicles to park and now disturb street parking. Okay thanks. Here I know the questions is there motion? Madam Chair I'd like to make a motion of the room. Is there a second? I can I second and add a proviso that with designer view for the rear yard parking layout into preserve open space. Mr. Stubbridge? Okay Mr. Stubbridge. Yeah. Mr. Vanzia. Yes. Miss Weewell. Yes. Mr. Turner. Chairwork. The motion carries. Thank you. The next two cases have been referred and of course beyond the 11th of month so but going to those hearings Madam Chair I'll ask for which all of the first both 11 and 11. You can only ask for a number. Hello. Hello. We will be in six minutes so you can ask me that. Thank you. Mr. Stubbridge I'm going to ask for the referral for 368 to 372 West Broadway. Please. That will be for case V.O.A. 168. 5 to 3.1 with the address of 368 to 372 West Broadway. Would you go ahead and explain please. Great. Thank you Mr. Stubbridge. Madam Chair members of the boy attorney Ryan Spitz with Adam Sumerancey. Business address of 168 H Street first floor south Boston. We're here requesting a deferral as that the advertisement needs to be re-advertised with the correct zoning violations. There was some inconsistency is that there was a previous refusal letter that needed to be corrected and unfortunately the original refusal letters what was advertised so we do have a new date that was discussed of sending this to the subcommittee on March 20th so again Carolyn I'm sure she could kind of speak onto that half so maybe it has not been so far. Yes what is it that's correct. Okay we've got ma'am motion and just declared by the date March 20th. Yes motion to defer to March 20th. Second thank you Mr. Stubbridge. Yes Mr. Velazia. Yes as we will. Yes Mr. Chair votes yes motion carries see them. Thank you. Yes to remind folks method that to throw if there are any requests for withdrawals other withdrawals in the first one this time frame and that also we are still a five-number boy for today. All right let's proceed. We're going on. We'll go to the hearing schedule for a living area. A case B-O-A 166 3313 with the address of 546 East Broadway. If the applicant and or their representative of president will be able to each buy. Morning Madam Chair members of the board Nick Landry from DRT where the architects on the project also part of the development team and I'm also joined by Tony King who's also on the development team. So we have a 546 East Broadway is currently an office building and we're proposing to turn it into an apartment building. We have two violations. A roof roof height restriction and a building in the building height is excessive. It's an existing non-conformity that we've we've continued off the rear of the building you can see on the strarring here. On the right hand side you can see that green box at the back. We're proposing to extend the building in that box the gray area in that box. The green box shows the setbacks and the FAR that would be allowed by rights. You can see we're well within what's allowed right above an FAR of 1.3 or in 1.5 local wealthy convenience. From the front of the building the only changes that we'll see are the left and right hand side on the penthouse level you can see there's some glass windows that we've added. Currently there there are outdoor decks on both sides now. We can go to the next piece. This is a safe plan showing East Broadway the building as it stands today. In the center of the plan there are two lots. Lot 21 and lot 20 on this plan. We're proposing to combine these together. We'll end up with a lot of size of about 13,500 square feet. With about 14 parking spots we have about 18 today. We can go to the next page please. We'll continue the next page as well. We're proposing to keep most of the architecture, all of the architecture at the outside of the building will remain the same on the street side. Aside from the two enclosures up on a penthouse level we'll obviously be re-pointing the front of the building. But the interior architecture there's a main stair that's very ornate. We're going to save that stair and we're going to create duplexed units on the first floor and then ground floor on either side of the first floor. Relocate that elevator up to the center of the building and then the extension in the rear will also have a duplexed unit on the ground floor and first floor. Moving up to the second floor will be a floor through unit. All of these units will have outdoor space within the setbacks. In the second and third floor will have duplexes off the rear. The penthouse level will enclose those two side decks that we have today and then we're proposing a walkout deck on the rear of this extension. So the figure of the next slide please. You can see that today we have the existing building east broadways on the right hand side of the west elevation. So the existing building goes back to just beyond that cellular tower. The extension is proposed from there into the parking lot. Again that won't be visible from east broadway because it's set in from each side of the building. Do you want to go to the next side please? I think this is more of the same from from the other angle. If you go to the next side please. So this this kind of depicts what we're asking for today. You can see the blue is what is the infill on either side the left and right hand side of the building that toward the front of the building that that blue area is the deck that we're infilling. So that violates the the existing height even though we're not going above the existing height of the building. It's an existing non-conforming unit. Then we're going to continue that up to rear of the building. The green box shows what we could build by right and as you can see we're within that side back we're trying trying to pull the building in to still leave enough room in the back so that their circulation can continue around the building. You can go to the next side please. So the the new structures proposed to be very light structure visually glass and steel and masonry. Any of the railings on the roof decks would be or any of the decks and the roof deck would be proposed to be glass. Continue the next slide please. So if you of you the building today on the left hand side as it sits today and then you can see on the right hand side the enclosures were proposing on either side of that penthouse level. You go to the next slide please. Again a view from the front you can see that existing penthouse level and the infill with the glass and as you can see from this image the the extensions will not go above the existing roof line. In this another picture from from another angle in the last the last the next sheet actually you can see this is the only so this is each street place which is off each street you can you can see if you look down this street you'll be able to see a little bit of that extension off the rear of the building and then that that concludes the presentation. This is just a view looking out to the back. I didn't see that it's quite breathtaking view of the city we're trying to make the most of that view out the back and that's all the decks are off the rear of the property. Thank you. Good question. It shows that you're reducing the parking spaces from 18 to 14. Is this sort of fair to say that's kind of what that's where you're extending? So this is correct. Those four spaces. That's correct. Okay questions from the board. Hearing none may have public testimony. We met and chair board members. See y'all with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the UNS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on November 14th of 2024 at which a concern was raised regarding a virgin c vehicle access to each street place. No comments were made about the design and the date of having neighborhood associations and non-offosition to this proposal. With that background we deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Yes. Thank you Madam Chair. Members with the floor. My name is Sydney. I'm from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and feedback from neighbors. He's directly requested the proponent continue to work closely with the civic group and community during the construction phase and on any quality of life issues. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We have some raised hands here. I'll start with Amy and then go to Megan. I'm one of the betters to the back side of the building. What has I would like to know what the structural plan is for the additional weight. The wall itself that abuts my property is already buckling in some spots so any additional weight. What is the plan for that that goes on to the back parking lot? Thanks. Megan? My questions are that it wasn't me that raised a concern of the abouters meeting about the emergency vehicles but as stated they were it was raised and there is no answer for that. My second question is about the snow removal and how they plan to get that. The snow out of there they build into the parking lot. Previously they went down the street place. I don't know if that's still their plan or if they're even going to be able to get down the street place. What do you think? So questions that typically we serve for the community process but would you like to give support opposition for the project? Okay. I'll go with that then we are extremely against it. He points out the view that they want to give advantage of and view that they want to give advantage of blocks all the other neighbors here. Thank you. Yes sir. Have you named an address please for the record? Megan Schiffer 5560 spreadway. Thank you for the Amy. You can unmute it. We're looking to give support opposition for this proposal. He spoke but yeah if you want to just think of your input support. Yes I sorry I didn't realize it was a question thing. I did email in my opposition with other concerns. My address is 441 is third. Thank you ma'am. We have no additional raiseings. Can't we can't be applicant take a moment to address those concerns that were raised? Yes for Amy for the rear wall the existing retaining wall that's back there is not part of the project scope. We're about I think we're about 30 40 feet off of that wall and we'll be using helical piles. They'll get drilled down in to the for the existing structure around me digging a big bowl back there on the ground to minimize any kind of disruption to the existing landscape back there and any I think part of the project would be a repoint that retaining wall just as part of the project but again we will not be anywhere near that wall and will be the structural foundation for the extension will be a helical pile which is minimally disruptive. Regarding the snow removal you know we'll have an outside company that will manage the snow removal I think H3 place is a it's a it's a it's a private street. I I don't know if as far as the snow from this building being pushed down there we have we've been managing the snow on this property and we continue to do so. The emergency vehicle access there's no easement across this property to provide access to H3 place for emergency vehicles and there is a turning raise on within this property and there's also a hydrant within the extensive the rear lot of this property. The and then the the regarding the view comment I think we were if you look at our building and the building next to us the building just to our left on East Broadway 540 East Broadway you can see it on the cover side of this image both of them have a rear extension. I think the again part of the reason why we stepped in this the extension in the rear was to minimize the blocking of anyone's views. I think naturally there's a huge piece of land back there that everyone's been able to take advantage of the views over it for quite some time. We and trying to kind of make it so that we weren't disrupting anyone's views that's why we had stepped this in. I don't think we can step in any further without severely affecting the floor plan layouts. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? I think we can go ahead. Hearing none is there a motion? Motion to approve with designer view with attention to the disability of the top floor. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Nurse Demberlunch? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Ruehwab? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. No. Thank you very much. How do you rate that? Before we move forward, if we would, would you let me turn to the fine frame in discussion? Well, I ask if there are any of your questions or withdrawals in the floor. From that time forward? Yes, sirs. And the former deputy, which is the deputy? 93 Howard Avenue. So we have a request for a chief to be able to wait 161571 with the address of 93 Howard Avenue to be the third. Would you go ahead and explain yourself? So this is out of my hands. Well, good morning, first. Good morning, Chair and one of the panelists. I'm the morning board. This is the third time that the ISD department has deferred or forced to meet deferred by hearing. Apparently they haven't. Apparently they're backed up. I haven't been able to send the give me a refusal letter. I've spoken with Mark several occasions said this should be fine. Every time I'm a period board, they're not prepared or not want to blame anybody. I don't know the exactly what's going on, but it's the last I heard as of yesterday. They are by plaintiffs going into a review for advertisements now. So. Okay, understood. I don't know. Caroline is there any insight you could provide or when you think is a reasonable hearing date? We'll get to you. We'll get roll 29. I'm sorry. I'm a bit frustrated. I've been in contact. This has been out about two. This plaintiff has gone about two years. I met with the board November to avoid what we're going through now. Like from April 29th, all you have was to this date. I guess it's not that I can talk about that. The interesting terms of like the refusal letter and give it to be advertised. I think if on 29th, just probably to say this. Option by the pushing further out. Okay, well hopefully we'll see you then and with that may have a motion. Motion to defer to April 29th. Second. Again, Mr. Stambridge. Yes, Mr. Volanzio. Yes, Ms. Wheelan. Yes, Mr. Turner. Yes, Yes, the motion carries. Thank you, everyone. We'll do that. If there are no other requests for withdrawal, the girls from the 1130th time frame, then we'll return to the last case for 114, which is case B-O-A, 116-8, little girl, 6-2, with the address of 83 Wildwood Street. This is a layer of office opposing case. It's the applicant and there was a representative president. They've put in response and points. Yes, thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, appreciate your time. This is Kyle Smith of Statero Law. This is the address of 359 New Bridge Street, Boston's Back Bay. With me on the call as well, I have two representatives of the project architectural team, David Pollock and Danielisson. I also have, I believe, the builder that proposed GC, Edison Verbiero, who is involved in some of these other similar M-O-H projects. And then also the proponent, Kendra Ro, who herself has been familiar with construction world as well. So they were a very good team assembled for this. As Mr. Stambridge mentioned, this is an M-O-H RFP project. This went out for a bid back in about October, September of 2020. Three, at least that's when they bid on it. They were the party elected, or were the project from the city of Boston. Importantly, the M-O-H's original proposal called for 12 units of housing, all affordable on this site. You'll give it some of the things we'll discuss, you know, following in the presentation, it's now scaled back to nine units. Six of them being family-sized three bedrooms. But they have worked to scale back the size of the project from a massive perspective to try to accommodate some of the about our concerns and the neighborhood concerns. But they have had Kendra Ro and team have had, you know, buy monthly meetings with M-O-H throughout the totality of this process. So we come to the table before you with a project in its current configuration. It has been heavily vetted and arguably heavily approved by M-O-H and its team in collaboration with the BPDA. So getting into the presentation, if you'd like to work your way down to the slides, this is the proposed footprint of the building. We have a lot size of about 10,791 square feet. The proposals that have a cross space in the base are not digging out for a full foundation. Given the need for parking, the need for housing, much of this lot will be cleared. They are trying to salvage one tree, kind of immediately adjacent to Wildwood Street. And then they'll be working to replant with, you know, small vegetation. We don't have affirmative belief on this or knowledge, but we believe a lot of the trees that are existing on site are also invasive species as well. But will require the clearing a lot of the lot. This is an infill lot. We believe it will be some excavation. There is currently an LSP engaged. We don't know the folks into which some of the earth below is dirty or not, but the team will be analyzing that as the project proceeds in collaboration with their LSP. And we work to address any kind of brown and dirty earth that they surface. The proposal calls for nine units of housing. And I'll get through the blend of what they look like with seven off street parking spaces. Per the R2 zoning code for affordable housing, we need a .7 ratio, which would be 6.3 units. We have seven. Per the MOH's specific guidelines for this RFP. They did not want parking allocated to any particular unit. It is effectively a first-come, first serve for parking. So we'll see on the later site plan, but we have one a handicap accessible parking space and six others. If you can look off the front of that slide right there, you'll see a long on ramp. So the whole first level is meant to be ADA accessible. And so there will be a ramp basically from grade to service the management to the right of the building there that you can see with stairs to the rear of the management and servicing the parking areas. We do have an ADA compliant building if you'd like to continue. That's showing the rear and right face elevations. You can see we have a slight downslope over the course of the grade from street to rear. If you'd like to continue. This is the proposed footprint. Now our three violations consist of a multifamily residential in this R2 sub district. Again, it was the city who wanted 12 units in affordable housing. We have effectively curtailed that back to nine. You can also see here that to accommodate the parking with the length of the drive, with the size of the structure, the building's footprint is approximately 4,600 square feet in footprint. So between that footprint of that structure, which is again, entirely affordable housing in combination with our seven parking spaces and the rear drive. We have about 2,000 square feet or so of currently open in space. So our other two violations specifically are exceeding the percentage of allowed building lot area coverage and also insufficient permeable lot areas. I'll talk more about permeability in a little bit. I feel like to continue our zoning table. I already touched on the violations if you'd like to continue. Our associated refusal letter, which I just touched on if you'd like to continue. Here's other further elevations. This is looking from the front down. You can also see it slightly slopes downward from left to right on grain. You'd like to continue. This is perspective landscaping plans. Again, this is currently rough, but the proposed tree to be salvaged is the one located on the front of the structure along the sidewalk. You'd like to continue. Now we get into the proposed layouts. In the course of the project, it was originally a larger unit along the right side driveway to reduce massing to make this look more in context with the rest of the neighborhood. As you saw from the elevations, this was the footprint of this portion of the structure was condensed into a one bedroom of only one story. So our blend of units, which you'll see in this thing, a good example, to the rear of the structure. There's mirrored three bedrooms, one and a half baths left and right. That is the same also for the second floor as well to the rear. So total, we have six three bed one and a half baths. On the first and second floor, we have 960 square feet and 943 square feet. We have one then on the third floor as well, that's 1113, sorry, 1113 square feet. And then on the first floor, sorry, on the second floor are entirely three beds. This, what you're looking at right here, you'll see a one bed to the front and right, and then we have a two bed to the front and left. So the first floor consists of two three beds, one two bed and one one bed. If you'd like to proceed to the next slide, the same, the rear is exactly the same. Mirror left, mirror right, three beds. There's also a three bed to the front of the structure. And that is the three bed that is 1100 square feet. Okay, so the second floor consists of entirely three bedroom, one and a half baths. If I'd like to proceed to the next slide. Top floor is one two bed and one three bed. Three bed is 1113 square feet and the two beds in front of you right there on the front portion of the building. To confirm the affordable nature of these units, it is currently proposed that two of the three beds will be listed at 80% AMI, four will be listed at 100% AMI, and then the two bed and one baths, I believe, as the owner who can confirm, I think it all also listed at the 80% AMI. So we are within the same applicable window, the 82% AMI, that this board recently previously approved for 239 ham street, which was a 12 unit structure that was approved in February. So again, this is part of an AMI range disposition of infill parcels and the intent to bring affordable housing on site in the city. Again, this is a scaled down version from the cities originally requested 12 units in the affordable housing to 9. Again, we are trying to really balance the concerns of the community of parking or lack of parking, giving the size and numbers of bedrooms, density, etc., understanding that the city of Boston is the one who controls the purchase strings and the distribution of this land. If the proponent does not give them what they want, then we don't get the project. So we are trying to balance some very significant countering concerns of both city and community. So with that, again, we have the full team on the line here to answer any questions and happy to fill any questions that the board has. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Just very quickly, thank you for the presentation. I think this is a good project and especially I like the photo house in creation on public land. So I support that. The question is about landscape in the trees. How many trees will remain and how many trees will do with planting? I know this is how it is. It's more like that. Just thicken out the open space. So it is my understanding. I don't know the exact number of trees to be removed, but the intent is only to really be able to salvage one of them and that is a long, wildwood street. So, unfortunately, a lot of the older growth trees which we believe to be invasive will be removed for the benefit of the footprint of the structure and paving and parking. But the intent with a fluid and budget constrained landscape plan is to replant trees in at least a one-for-one basis, which is what the city requires, but certainly bringing as many online as possible to help provide some more shading, buffering, etc. So I can let Kendra speak a little bit more if she liked to the owner, but it's the intent is to bring back to the set as many trees as feasible of a younger growth scale. Thank you. I think that's enough for the mission. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions on the board? Here in Nunn, Mayor Paulic Desmoni. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemperi. I am the Matta Panned Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abundance meeting held on January 28th that was likely attended. Abundance made many inquiries that were addressed at the meeting. If you concerns regarding a few concerns or regarding the parking in the neighborhood as well as the amount of proposed parking, road and control was also brought up as a concern during construction, construction timeline in the direct about our voice concerns for privacy which again were addressed during the meeting. The proponent was connected to Woodrow Avenue Neighborhood Association and Greater Mount of Penn Neighborhood Council on February 20th. I would appreciate no letters of opposition or support at this time. Thank you for your time in the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We're looking forward to the board for the judgment. Thank you. See you, everyone. My name is Tierra Sakshable and I'm a development officer with Mayor's Office of Housing. I'm a state of this project embossed the decision of City Own Land of the Welcome Home Boston Program which is the initiative to develop a federal homeowner's friend in the city and this project has a full support of Emily. Thank you. Councilor Murphy. Councilor Williams, please. Keep going. I guess Ms. Tazzy and her council are well as office. I'm speaking on behalf of the council. I'm trying to express support for the project proposal for 83 by Wood with the planned adjustment society upon between the development team and the upbudders to the property, namely the addition of privacy screening and an insurance writer to protect the property owner at 79 wildwoods street against any construction damage. We applaud the consistent communication between the development team with the upbudders community members and civic groups representing the surrounding neighborhood and shared development practices aligned with communities and desires and hope to see more of this clear and timely communication as a model for responsible development throughout the city. Thank you. You. Councilor Santana's office. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Edis Johnson and I work for City Councilor at large in recent Tana and we would like to go on record and support of this project. Councilor Murphy's office. Hi, Madam Chair. Hello, and good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Secretary, members of the board, Madam Baster, my name is Kevin O'Sullivan, I'm from councilor Aaron Murphy's office. Councilor Murphy would like to stand with the community, the Greater Mattapan neighborhood council, as well as council president Luigen, councilor Laurel, councilor Santana in support of this project. As was just mentioned, the project has done a really respectable job of being proactively involved in communicating with the banners, making sure that all concerns were addressed. So thank you very much for your time and consideration and councilor Murphy. Isn't support. Have a great day. Thank you, Jessica. Okay, we're just a unit. Jessica. Hi, this is actually Jessica and our most investment year, Directive Buiders at 79 Warrowell Street. Sir, can you just speak a little bit here? You're too long. Is it hard for you to hear me? Can you hear me a little bit better now? Perfect. Yes, thank you so much. All right, so my name is Ervos Sylvester and I'm here with my wife, Jessica Sylvester, we are Directive Buiders at 79 Warrowell Street. Good to say we like to oppose this right now just for the scale of the unit. We are neighbors of the banners meaning did say that there were going to be seven parking spaces for 20 bedrooms and nine units. We just wanted to see the unit be scaled back to maybe six or less. Also, at the time of the banners meaning you're not aware of the geological studies that were found and the results of that were that there are aromatic hydrocarbons that were in the soil that is going to be developed and we wanted to know what the protections we had after excavation was going to be done and what the remediation process was for that that was not communicated to us at the time of the banners study. At the banners meeting, we also wanted to know and were concerned if this project goes through in nine units are put there. What we have the opportunity or there would be any kind of issues if we wanted to further develop our property to match the property as being developed next door because as you can see in advocates is designed. They monitor after our own so I'm going to make sure that when this comes here this would block an opportunity for us to further add onto our property. Thank you. Thanks. There are no additional reasons. Can the applicant just address those comments briefly? Yes, Madam Chair. So that was the reference direct immediate butter. We have actively in Kendra and I have been in email communications. We've committed to continue to work with them to address the privacy concerns to the best of our ability, screening, buffering, etc. There's concerns to excavation and run off. Clearly, we'll have to manage those over the course of the duration of the project. As far as the building is concerned or there will have to be an approved Boston Water Suer Commission plan done, I didn't want to touch briefly on permeability which was a sudden violation I failed to mention that earlier. I would just caution that this is going to be a long-term affordable housing, the cost to both install and also to maintain permeability is a increased cost. So we're trying to balance future maintenance costs with permeability, but again, there will be infiltration systems. All this will be heavily vetted and approved by the Boston Water Suer Commission. Lastly, again, as our butter mentioned, there is some potential unknowns subsurface. We do actively have an LSP engaged who will receive this product or have to keep them abreast in the field of what we have found. But a builder can do better than engaging an LSP proactively to help manage and discuss what ultimately might be found once. We start removing some ground and some earth. So the point being is that yes, we do hear our butter in the community loud and clear. Again, the city is asking for more than what we're ultimately delivering that's been scaled back. So again, we're trying to balance with the city once with what our butter is our vocalizing. And we are certainly committed to working with Mr. Sylvester and his wife in open lines of communication, screening, buffering, active management, having proper construction supervisors, points of conduct for them. So as the contract process is undergoing an underway, they'll have a drug-land communication with somebody that's directly responsible to Kendra or the owner. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing that is their motion. Thank you. Is there a second? Back in. It's the sandwich. You have. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Parable of the yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, we appreciate your time. Thank you. Everybody, appreciate it. Number one, two rediscussions scheduled for 11.30 a.m. The first we have is it's DOA 167, 777, zero seven with the address of 639 to 643 each one street. This is an article eighties. Mayors of housing case. With that is the applicant's android, their representative, a present with their police performing the board of what they want to do. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzolo, McDermott, Rodeen Miller and Hamley, 28th State Street in Boston. Just an update that we deferred originally to the state because we had not gone through the article eighties approval with the BPD board happy to report back to this board that we did get approval in February 13th. So we're ready and happy to go forward today. With me from Madison Park Development Corporation who is the proponent with their entities Josh McClendon who is the Assistant Project Manager on the project. I'm sure that you are familiar with NB MPDC but they're very familiar with the Roxbury neighborhood. It created numerous ground up new construction in affordable housing may area for many years and then also our architect with me today is Sophie Garman from Studio or Luz Architects. Looks like somehow I sent it to be sent to you or was on a very clean set of horizontally sorry about that Madam Ambassador. I'll just keep going Madam Chair when it gets into the next slide. We could just catch up on the slides and hopefully she can rotate it. With now we could all just bend this way or flip our screens but hopefully Madam Ambassador you're able to just rotate when you get a chance. So this site it's approximately 32,760 square feet. It's vacant land area of over 50 years now dating back to the Washington Park urban renewal from the 1960s. Again this is an article 80 project recently approved on February 13th. It is hard to see here but it is 80 a little or 84,000 square feet proposed project. 63 total new all affordable dwelling units all between 30% area meeting income and 100% area meeting income. There's a variety of one two and three bed units which is tough to see here but 13 of those 63 units are actually three bedroom units which is a little over 20%. There's 2000 square feet of ground floor commercial retail activation along Warren Street and then bike parking as required and also 22 surface parking spaces at the rear. Thank you Madam Ambassador. Sorry to make you go through the the gymnastics but that's this slide we can go to the next slide. Lot of project benefits some of which I've already talked about but I think it's important to to just reference some year for the board. Again lots of vacant land all income restricted units all below at or below 100% BMI. Street level commercial space to activate the street. There we go. Yeah it will a large amount of on site open space in a variety of areas in programming. This will be lead goal certified in addition to being designed for task and house standard design complete streets and also lots and lots of construction jobs brought it to the city. Next slide please. So just want to show the site we'll talk about this more in the minute with Sophie from the architectural team and have studio loose but this you know unique site conditions in hardship it is a requirement for the variance this is a very unique land geometry I don't know what shape this would be called but it's definitely not a standard square rectangle you could see here it funds on three public streets mainly on Warren Street but also a lot of fun to jump Crawford Street and a small access point and curb cut on Georgia Street to the bottom left of the screen that actually you'll see in a minute we are going to maintain and utilize for our parking how there is a top the graphical grade change from top to the left of the site to bottom right when you get down to Warren Street it's about 10 feet again it's a very large site almost 33,000 square feet which is unique to the area it's a long been vacant under urban renewal and all of these kind of unique characteristics and conditions for the variance findings you know we would suggest letting themselves to the zoning relief that's needed for the project again along with the 100% affordable compiling next slide please madam ambassador this is the zoning chart we do need some zoning happy to go through this ignore detail this project as you'll see is design and scale to complement this kind of unique corner location unique site shape and characteristics again we do need zoning relief for several items but we would suggest and submit that they're all related to the unique characteristics of the law it's shape rate change etc and then all of this well again was approved through our really large project review with the planning department a recommendation of approval next slide madam ambassador is our refusal letter just sorry so the board can see happy to go through this again more detail with questions but the multifamily residential use we are in the community I'm sorry they grow all neighborhood shopping some districts so the MFR use is actually allowed on the upper floors but we require relief on the ground level because there are some ground floor units along Crawford Street which is a more residential street at the top of the site we need relief for floor area ratio believe it's about a 2.62 what's allowed is a 1.0 we need building height but again there is a topographical grade change and the building height does allow additional all affordable units and then a rear yard insufficient again it's a funky shaped lot and although there is a rear yard and there is lots of open space there some of the new building does approach on the rear yard seven next slide please and I'll speak to this this is just meant to show the project engagement in short to sum this up it was a lot you know we just heard previously about a lot of the outreach that was done in the previous project just before this I would say similarly done here in terms of the site in its history they began community outreach well before the article 80 process even began even before they purchased the property they met with neighborhood groups before they proposed anything just to understand what the appetite was for development of the sites and scale they met with neighborhood groups electing the public officials to keep the appointment formed in the project and its plans again you know this is a sensitive site with urban renewal and those historical issues so the development team was very attuned to that they actually coordinated a community advisory committee kind of a pre-IG so to speak with local stakeholders who are interested in attending more regular meetings and updates and they partnered with a Rosbury-born artist this is something you don't see a lot of but in the interim conditions this is a vacant lot and during the period before getting to this point in an open public instruction they actually cleaned up the site and worked with a Rosbury-born artist on a sunflower project to activate the site with the sunflower garden neighborhood programming activating kind of you know again a vacant lot for community meetings kind of in this interim period as we go through permitting which was very well received by the neighbor next slide I will toss to Sophie that be it's for the Ole Miss Show go quickly through what I just verbalized I'd show the board the plans Sophie over to you thank you Nick and thank you members of the board and Madam Ambassador so as mentioned before the project is located in the Grove Home neighborhood one block up from the intersection of Warren Street and Blue Hill Ave and as you can see here there are several bus lines that run a long Warren Street and stop at the existing bus stop at the project site the bus stop is currently located at the corner of Warren and Clawford Street this is also a project right for Trans-Orient Development with the four corners Geneva and PTA station within a half mile of the site and this diagram also goes to note that there are currently no parks or public green spaces within a half mile walk up the site and this is informed our teams approach to creating open spaces throughout the site with a variety of usage next slide please and so as you can see here and as mentioned previously the site itself has been vacant since it was cleared as part of the Washington Park Urban Renewal Plan on the bottom right you can see the single-story commercial context directly across Warren Street as well as the post office adjacent to the site and this is sort of the gap in that open space that vacant lot is currently creating and then at the bottom left you can also see here the existing curb cut on Georgia Street that our project proposes to use again to provide vehicle access to the site for surface parking next slide so here you can see the existing curb cut on Georgia Street the surface parking will provide 20 standard spaces and two accessible parking spaces at grade level 13 of these spaces you can see are covered by the building volume that is cantilevered above and you can see here how our our team has shifted the building's footprint away from the property line at Warren Street and north from the post office to expand the pedestrian realm along and behind the existing bus stop which is noted by the letter A on the plan for your reference as well as create open space the preserves views of an existing mural that is really significant to the community and was heard throughout all of our community engagement process the significance of maintaining the views of this mural and so I have the letter C here you can see how the building footprint has been stepped back to provide access and visibility along that mural adjacent to the post office and the ground floor uses are related to the existing context with two commercial spaces that continue that commercial fabric up from the post office as well as relating to existing commercial spaces across the street and then the primary residential building entrance is located further north up with greater relationship to the existing bus stop providing the interior residential bike storage and then as you go around to the Graftford Street there's a secondary residential entrance along with the three ground floor residential units mentioned previously that relate to the more residential townhouse context that is present further up Graftford Street in addition if we could say that briefly in addition to the public realm improvements at the ground level there are you can see there are several new street trees proposed as part of this as well as a resident open space to the rear of the lot that would include a communal patio as as well as a natural landscape play area for residents so we're creating a variety of public and private open spaces within this proposal next slide please. So here you can see the second and third floors each have 15 units of floor while the fourth and through six floor have 10 units of floor with a weight towards families of two and three veteran units and you can see here how at the upper levels the massing decreases at the fourth and fifth levels including the creation of a resident terrace at the south eastern corner on the fourth floor to create an additional level of access to open space and views across down the Grove Hall area and as well as decreasing the apparent scale of the proposal and view from the street next slide please. So what you can see here is how that strategy of reducing the building massing works with the setback of the building footprint from the property line to create open space along one street while also stepping the building massing up to reduce the visual impact of the building and create increased view of the sky as one views the building going north along more and straight next and we continue this strategy here by returning you know stepping up to the three story up to the six story and then returning back to the three story volume as one turns the corner to Crawford Street and relating back to the smaller townhouse building scale that is typical along that street which you can also see in the next image. Now we can go to the next slide please. And what you can see here is how the overall massing is working with the ground floor footprint an aerial view to create that generous pedestrian way because serving clear access to light and noting here you can see that there's ten feet of clear space of open air behind where the proposed bus application is and the overhang of the building as well as you know creating new street trees along Warren Street and the addition of these ground level plantings on the opposite side adjacent to the building and what this does and you can see how this relates to the pedestrian ground in Grove Hall continuing up Warren Street and then relating to the yard frontage that you see at the Freedom House lot where the building also sets back and so what we're doing is using this pedestrian realm to create the blend and reinforce that transition between the two scales of the context of this set sort of the nexus of next slide. And then in addition to connecting to the existing fabric our proposal is connecting to the existing cultural fabric honoring the existing mural on the site here you can see how that chamfer at the ground floor the building footprint preserves a more expansive view of the mural while also creating an outdoor space that relates to the two commercial spaces for seating or community gathering. Next slide. And this image goes to show how the open space extends the depths of the mural while preserving that access to light and air in this space as well to create that generous open space that is on the public frontage of the project. Next slide. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes I'm going to clarify about the mix between parental and harmonica. So the harmonica units are going to be mixed with the rental so they are going to be separated and understand that. They would be, you asked Mr. Valencia, they'd be separated in terms of just at the top of the site along the upper street they would still be part of the main building. That's the current iteration of the plan. So they would have the same access as the yes yes sir. Yep good great question yeah they are they are in a certain area of the building but they will have access to all the same as the rental in assets yes. All right, thank you. Along those lines I believe there's 63 years in the development and nine will be harmonica. Yes the system rich that is the current model. As required we will have to go through the mayor's office of housing and funding applications and things of that nature but that is the proposal today in front of the board yes. Would that go through that process? Would that possibly include additional harmonica units? Are you planning on leaving a word? I do not believe Mr. Stembridge it will increase. You know it all depends on funding and where the funding stipulations come from. I know it will be answered directly no it will not increase. It will be nine but up to nine. Thank you. Thank you. So that may we have public testimony? Yes Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time mayor's office is deferred to the judgment this board some back information in the community process. I understand this was a joint effort by Boston Planning Department as well as input and held from M. L. H. There was an impacted advisory group that was held in October as well as a public meeting this past November. They also ring the contacts with the Crawford Holland Ruth Venn with Nona Wombank Neighborhood Association as well as the Garrison Traudder Neighborhood Association. Those groups issued a conditional support letter expressing some concerns regarding potential impact on traffic as well as a strong desire for them to see a Clubside Management involving pickup drop off for the commercial space without a deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay, I can mail it on the side one second. Michael So, and they can be on. All right, Michael Sooth from Project Right. We appreciate the extensive efforts of this project to have community and supposed with the Garrison Traudder Neighborhood Association and with the Crawford Holland Ruth and Wombank Neighborhood Association. There was a lot of back-of-forth discussions. I think the project might be still a little bit too large, but I think people are willing to go ahead with it as we go through the poor planning process. These explicit concerns are more of the traffic and parking plans for the corner of intersection that's very busy. There's no parts stopping allowed in front of this project, so where they have the commercial space will be problematic. We already see the problems when people stop off or the post office, all traffic gets backed up. And we think it's unrealistic that people who buy home ownership opportunities of Carford Street are going to drive all the way around through the busy intersection, busy traffic lights to enter enough with Georgia Street, but we are willing to go ahead with the project and work with them as they move forward. Thank you. Good. Come on. Hi, thank you, Manager. My name is Camille Platte. I'm the project manager for the 639 Worn Street Project with the planning department. So as Nick and Connor both mentioned, the project was approved on February 13th of this year. Both in IAG meeting and a public meeting were hosted in October and November respectively. Due to the expansive community outreach done by Madison Park Development Corporation and the team prior, the meetings were well attended in the public form and the IAG. We had a couple of folks join who spoke in support and asked questions that arose at previous meetings prior to the articulating process. And so with that, the planning department would like to foster support for the project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We have no additional questions. We have motion. This is a great project. The location is very complicated and I think the other way, everybody would check out with the planning and the design, especially mixing rentals in harmonious chip, especially for the community. So with that, we have motion of approval. Is there a second? That can. Mr. Thumbridge. Yes. Mr. Lazia. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next case has been referred to case of the OAA 156185A with the address of 17 Wichita Terrace. It's the applicant to enter with their representative of the present. Would they please explain it to the board? Great. Thank you, Mr. Thumbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, but that is Marancy Business Address of 168 H Street, verse floor. So Austin, joining me today is the project. I'll protect our exam. This is a proposal to combine two parcels, raising existing structure to form a new law and erect a new four-story residential dwelling with seven units in garage parking for 10 spaces on the first floor. All floors will be accessible by elevator. All units will also be home ownership. Properly lies within a residential block, but within an existing mixed-use neighborhood and a couple blocks away from Milton Station on the Matapan trolley. The project addresses the city's ongoing housing needs and also supports local businesses by increasing the number of residents within locking distance of shop services and amenities. This possible consists of approximately 7,058 square feet, falls within a 2F-6,000 sub-district, which will require relief for the use. The erection of a multi-family dwelling is in line with the planning goals of 2030 while increasing the city's housing stock along areas closely serviced by transit and within locking distance of shop services and amenities. All units will range from approximately 1,015 square feet to 1,660 square feet. The second floor will contain units 1,2, and 3. Units 1 and 2 will be a two-bedroom while units 3 will contain a three-bedroom. The third floor will contain units 4 and 5, which both will be three bedrooms. The fourth floor will contain units 6 and 7, which will also be other three bedrooms. The roof plan will contain two exclusive use roof decks for units 6 and 7 ranging from approximately 230 square feet, and which will be accessed from the interior of those units by hatch. We have additional violations for FAR, a point four is what is required by code and the proposal calls for 1.89 due to the smaller size lock. It is consistent with some of the recently approved projects within this neighborhood. Front guard, side guard and rear yard violations, where due to small-size yards, then what is required by the code are the common conditions on this block as well. We have building height violation both in stories and feet as the proposal calls for four stories and 45 feet 10 inches, where two and a half stories and 35 feet is the max by the code. While slightly taller than most of the buildings on this block, the height is very consistent with the recently approved projects in this area. We do have design and maneuverability violation as we're proposing six compact spaces in full-four-size spaces. We have read the planning departments recommendation for approval and we'd like to highlight a few things. There was a mention of two curb cuts, but that is not the case. The site play does reflect that will be restoring the existing large curb cut currently and utilizing a new 12-foot wide curb cut for the property. Parking design and maneuverability can be addressed during design review. As for the garage door, we believe the garage door does not exceed the 25% of a allowable area for openings in exterior walls, but that also can be addressed during the design review phase. It was also mentioned about utility easement on this property, and that specific utility easement is below ground coming from the abutting property and the rear that provided utilities to this existing property. Lastly, the roof decks for unit six and seven are in fact vertically accessed by the interior of the units to a hatch. However, this can be further reviewed during design review. In concluding, we believe this proposal is appropriate for this location and aligns with the May as initiative increasing the housing stock. At this point in time, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over to you and the board for any questions or comments. Thank you so much. Are there any questions from the board? I have a question for you. Here in that, Madam Public testimony. Just because there any raised hands. I don't know what is hand at the moment. Wait for me to speak. Madam Chair and members of the board. For the work of my name is Jeremy Bember. I am the Madam Pain Community Engage Specialist for the Office of the neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abutting held on September 25th with only one attendee. I know a question that concerns the raised. Our next proposal was before a ribastry civic association on September 12th, the city voted and did not support the project but approved to move forward. To date the office has received one letter of opposition with no specific concern. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services will like to depart to the board for the day. You have no raised hands. Thank you. Is that my hand motion? May I have, is there a motion? Yes, motion and for the roadway. In the parliament of your. There is second. That can't. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Lanzio. Yes. Mr. Lee Well. Yes. Mr. Caron. Yeah. Parallels, yes, the motion carries. Great, thank you. Next, we have a student of Canyon Cases. Of course, can you case the V.O.A. 153. 8686. With the address of 86, the story of street. Along with that, it has case of B.O.A. 153. 87. Or zero. Also with the address of 86. History. If the applicant and their representative are present, will they please point to the board? Yes, my name is Roger. I am the architect for the project. The owner of natural in transit will not be able to attend. She's actually working. This project was presented last year. However, we went back and we saw, well, after suggesting, I think I'm going to point them, is that we could improve the project by dealing with some of the egress issues. But first, I'd like to talk a little bit about the overall context of this project. Mrs. Lanzio. Mrs. Lanzio. This was brought this building back in 2018. And the reason why she purchased the building was for the Vihalding for herself. She occupies the third floor, the second floor, and the third floor. And also, she bought the property so she can also have her family members. She had the family member living on the first floor, and she had a family member living in the basement floor. Is it important to mention that when she bought this property, the basement unit was existing. She was not aware that that basement unit was illegal. One problem she had is I asked her. She never had, she didn't have an attorney to represent her, which would have caught that problem from the very beginning. So this is where we are. Constantly, what happened, the inspection of the service department, the inspection, they realized that basement unit was not legal. They didn't cite a violation. It went further than that. It's now in housing court. So housing court is now waiting to see what the decision of the board is going to be so they can take the appropriate action. We may change this to the plan, and those changes involve a few things. One change was that we eliminated the rear entry, which has been made in three to the basement unit. And we also eliminated what was a, approved the bedroom, which had an egress window. Those do I answer in the driveway, which was a building code violation. We eliminated those entries and then of each egress and entry and provided entry to the basement unit from the parts where carbon spare into the basement. When we did that, it eliminated all of the building code violations. However, it created new building code violations. One, the only way to make the stair work was to create a scissors stair. I mean, a scissors stair, but the stair had whiners in it, which is not co-compiant. The other item was that MDE dress space, put a basement to the first floor of the room. It was a closet that was included. That is a mistake. I thought it should not have been there. So technically, at least, conceptually, that violation should be eliminated. So, but the zoning violations stand, which are, which is, use, of course, the use, if we've been for a ratio, is excessive, useable space in sufficient and very yard in sufficient. So those will remain. So here we are, the owner of it's in a situation where the decision would greatly impact her family living conditions. Furthermore, we also included a fire, a fire protection system, a shrink-to-system, in the basement that uses the domestic water service, which is consistent with a three-family drawing. We also met with the neighborhood group a few times. The first time was when we presented the original plan in which they approved, we've been back to them after we made the revision and met with them again. They also approved that as well. I believe they have a lot of support on record that group is the West Southern Street, the Sternley Neighborhood Association. That concludes my presentation and I'm open to any questions that the board may have. Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Any questions from the board? How many means of progress are from the base? All of them. There are two to be addressed. The new piece of the progress at the front comes all the way and there it's an interesting piece of the progress at the rear of the building. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. Hearing none may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This kind of Mayor is also referred to the judge of this board. As you have now, I'm in representation. This was previously heard by the board, I believe. Sometime ago last year, we had directed them to be in contact with the local civic association, the Grayer Manipain Neighborhood Council, which I understand they've been working with. I'll run out of where any concerns presently. I will be referred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. We have no vacations at the moment. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Was that that being motion? That chair before we do that, if you don't mind, what is the ceiling height in the basement? None, but to some extent, it is just a co-compined. And one bedroom? Now, always the one bedroom. What the two bedrooms we took, what are the bedrooms out to accommodate the stair going up to the to exit the building? Sorry. Any other questions? Here, not me, motion? But for a dimension of approval, is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. This we will. Yes. This turn. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Bye. Thank you. Next, we have case of B.O.A. 165, 3.0, 6.0 with the address of 1.15, Val great app. If the applicant enters the representative, the president will completely start in case the board. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy Business Address of 168 H Street, first floor, self-boston. Joining me today is the project, Dr. Tekt Erick Zaferson. This is a proposal to erect a new four unit residential dwelling with one unit on each floor. Parking will be located in the rear of the property for four vehicles. Oda has committed to permeable payments for the parking area to assist better with drainage. Popping lies within an existing mix-use neighborhood in adjacent to commuter rail tracks in the rear. It is only a seven minute walk to Rosemail Village commuter rail station. Further, the site falls within the Rosemail Square in streets planning area and would enhance the Val great Avenue corridor with the addition of more residential units to an area with strong access and existing mix-use activity. Project addresses the city's ongoing housing needs and also supports local businesses by increasing the number of residents but in walking distance of shop services and amenities. This possible consists of approximately 4,400 square feet in falls within a three of 4,000 sub-district which will require relief for use in locked area. The erection of a multi-family dwelling is in line with the planning goals of 2030 while increasing the city's housing stock along area service by transit and within walking distance of the shop services and amenities. All units will range from approximately 1.185 square feet to 1295 square feet. Units 1, 2 and 3 will all contain three bedrooms and two bath located on levels 1 through 3. Unit 4 will contain a two-bedroom, two bath located on level 4. We have additional violations for locked width and frontage as they have both pre-existing locked conditions. Front yard and conformity of existing building alignment, proposal cost for a one-foot setback with 20 feet being required by the code but this could be addressed during design review. Side yard, the requirement of the sub-district is 10 feet. We are compliant on the left side and need relief for the right side at four feet. This type of side yard matches side yard patterns found typically on build rate F. Building height, bolted stories and feet as the proposal calls for four stories and 43 feet 10 inches where three stories of 35 feet is the max by code but the proposed height and feet aligned with the existing buildings along build rate avenue. We have a four-area ratio of violation 28 is what is required by the code and we are proposing a 1.34 but again that also matches the F.A.R. of existing buildings within this area. We have an open space violation. The requirement is very high in the sub-district at 800 square feet per unit and our proposal calls for approximately 380 square feet per unit. In the rear of the property you will notice there is a common space being provided for leisure for occupants and found and failed. There is also located in the rear of this property. One thing worth noting is the proposed lock coverage is only 30% which is below average for this part of the neighborhood. Packing we have two spaces per unit is required and the proposal offers one space per unit. This is also aligned with the city's policy reducing dependency on private vehicles. The curb cop will be reduced to enhanced pedestrian safety on this property and concluding this proposal is appropriate for use for this location and aligns with the mayor's initiative increasing the housing stock as well as Rosendale squares and streets especially in areas of transit neighborhoods. At this point in time I am going to turn it over to you in the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yes, did you say that they left two parking units? They left two parking units? No, it is one space per unit. Two is required by the code. One is okay. Thank you. Thank you. May I open up to public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bumburi and the Rosendale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an approach meeting held on October 9th where a Buddhist did voice concerns but not voice support or opposition. Our concerns range from stepbacks and violations with a lot of concern were gone in the displacement of the current business tent. The project was then presented to a west of village neighborhood association on January 16th and again on February 13th to answer more follow-up questions where they did approve the project to move forward. We have never received no letters of opposition or support at this time. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services related to the board for the judgment. Board members, my name is Hausley Laura's. I am the son of the commercial real estate tenant in 115 Belgrade app and at this time I would like to give an opportunity for my sister, media, who is with my father so you could see who is the person that is being displaced. Media, can you? Yes, I'm China. How can we show the fixed-year screen? This is an opportunity for you to state your support or opposition and why? So in our position is one of the things we've been in communication with Councilman Pepe. We also got support from the Councilman, Rick, about getting a lawyer representation to support us in this case. So, with this displacement, one of the things that the landlord submitted, a document that shows one of the things that they're going to work with my father. But in one of the letters that says they're going to be working in communication, in good-community, in good-face communication. There's been a lack of communication. The representation just in that letter to our representation being paid for by the city of Boston, George Olaski, last week. And they gave us an opportunity to review the document. My father hasn't had a chance to discuss further even though they're saying they're speaking with good faith about the displacement of father who has been a commercial, who has had his hot-body shot for over 24 years serving the community of Rosendale. And so, one of the things, yes, please, briefly. Now, I just wanted to share that they have not been working in good faith, even though they're sharing a document with the board that they are doing so. Thank you. And I see Councillor Peppin's office. Maybe we can hear him from you. Yes, good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Diana Brantchenk from District 5 City Councilor Riegenpenn's office. The Councillor is in support of the project and is appreciative of the property owner and his representative for meeting with the community again. As you've just heard, there is a beloved commercial, there is a beloved auto body shop on the property right currently and there has just been major concerns of lack of communication between the landlord and that in that property, in the business owner. The Councillor does want to go on record that, yes, the current, the tally's business has been, tally's auto body has been given a lawyer through the city. There is an agreement that the owner of the property will assist with finding a new location for tally's auto body as well as giving them a 12 month grace period before having to move them or relive before evicting them from the current space. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I just also, if there's no other hands or raised, I could just briefly confirm there are no other raised hands. Just go. So we have no additional raised hands at the moment. Okay, I'm sorry, I suppose. Great, thank you. I just want to kind of just put it all out there just so everyone has full knowledge of what's happening here. So tally's auto body who does occupy the space as a current tenant at will and again my client who is developing the property of the landowner's own if a many, many years has never gone up and they're rents. He has had heard from some of the surrounding of the, of butters of the I soar of this actual property. And again, I just want to remind everybody that the dispute between the landlord and the tenant and the commercial is a private dispute outside of what the relief is being sought here today. So it doesn't appear that there's any sort of issues with the zoning violations that we are seeking relief for. Again, so one thing that my client has considered that it is an tenant at will and that the best of reasonable use isn't for it allowed to be in one story, half of it outside of a, as a car repair shop in this neighborhood where residential is in dire need of adding some more units here. We do respect that the, that the tenant has been there in existence for quite some time. And again, so there is no issues of actual displacement at this point in time. There is a tenant that will, we've committed that when we do provide notice, if in fact that they do, that would be at least a 12 month notice to work with them and not just throwing the tenant out on the street. And again, the landlord is also committed to hiring his real estate broker to assist with identifying another location for them. But again, this type of use is not an easy use. We can't make any commitments or guarantees that they'll find another location. But again, the landlord will continue to work with them of trying to identify one and at least provide them. We did submit a letter or a statement from the owner himself specifically stating that to be added to the wreckage. So hopefully you all are able to read that. So Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it back over to you. Thank you. Was that out of any other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I think it's a good reminder that what's before us are the zoning violations of not sort of what we are tasked with reviewing. So with that, I'm going to make a motion for approval with the proviso that plans these to manage the planning department with attention to the parking design. Is there a second? Again, Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes, and I also want to ask the proponent to please keep working with the tenant to ensure that the final location that there is enough grace period in that they are not obligated just to go there to give this. Thank you. Ms. Ruo? Yes. Ms. Tarn? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Great, thank you. Next, we move to the hearings. We have case POA 168-5377. With the address of 40 William C Kelly Square, if the applicant and the lawyer represent the president, please please point to the board. Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, our Richard Lins, business address of 245 Summars Street. East Boston, I mean, half of William Kelly 40, I was the owner of William. With me today is 20 Chile, who is the president of First Brewery Credit Union, Yari Del Rosa, who is the CFO, and Sanjana Cromano, who is the retail vice president. I believe we also have Attorney Charlie Tevner, who is First Brewery's outside council. We jump to the next slide. Madam Chair, relative to the straight form proposal involves changing use for the ground level of 40 William Kelly Square. It's the newest addition to East Boston Central Square area. We can go down to the second slide please. Yes, a quick overview of Central Square East Boston. The building is a screen center showing the surrounding context of where it's located. You probably jump down to the next slide. Maybe one more slide as well. Never got it. So this is originally true by the board. Several years back, it was a six story mixed use building that allows for ground level in the second floor and virtual space with the residential above. There was never any specific uses identified at the time of the original rules. So it was essentially currently as a corn shell. First priority credit union has its main office in East Boston as well as the additional location in the near-sat station or by the post office. It is looking to basically add a additional branch here at 40 William Kelly Square. We want to jump back perhaps to the next slide please. So the proposal is at the branch occupying the time ground model. There'll be an ATM that's accessible directly from the sidewalk, a water street side of the building, which would be to the screen left. And if we get out of the next slide, it will be planned as well. So just real quick on the zoning out of Chera Bank. ATM use is conditional. This is located in the newly established ATM use seven zoning district with the amended zone in East Boston. The applicant submits that this proposed use is consistent with each of the requirements set for it. An article six three of the code. I'll run through those briefly. It's an appropriate location for the use as article 53 doesn't forbid bank or ATM use is the end-use seven district. It certainly will not adversely affect the neighborhood. It's consistent with surrounding use in the area, which consists of general retail, shopping, commercial and other banking uses. There's no series having Azure vehicles for the stream, so we use and certainly no new sense would be created by this use. The last thing you show me these plans and the plans are on Fowell ISD. There are adequate appropriate facilities provided for the proper operation of the use of the bank and facility. Therefore, we would submit that a conditional use permit would be appropriate, and no other room zoning relief is required from the code. I'm happy to pause there and answer any questions from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of Board. My name is Eva Jones representing the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding Forty-William Kelly Square office will defer to the Board's stretchman on this matter. Community process was conducted, including the distribution of a subcommittee fire on 2625. We received feedback from no constituents. Additionally, the proposal was discussed with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association, which has expressed support regarding the proposal. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services deferred to the Board's stretchman on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yeah. One just popped up. Okay. Second. Ethany? Ethany, we're going to get testimony. Yes, and don't request any of you. Can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak in front of you. I appreciate the courtesy of the time. I want to just go with Mr. Winter said, we're 100-year-old Cretanian. We're the only surviving Cretanian based in East Boston. And our commitment to East Boston is immense. And the reason we want to go into this area, it is very difficult and challenging to find a photo of a space. We feel as a perfect space, our marketplace is dominantly the small family-owned small businesses, which they struggle to survive as it is, and they struggle to find appropriate banking services. And that's kind of what our strength is and what we appeal to. We have a myriad of products. We're active participants in the Fomus Market, which is directly across the street in the warm weather. And we generously donate to many causes in East Boston. In other areas as well, the East Boston, we are trying to expand our footprint in East Boston. It is a large community. And we're excited for this opportunity. We do think, as Mr. Lin said, it's a great use. It's not a use that creates a lot of trash or different potential traffic in the community. Our eyes were closed early in the evening. We're closed the latest, we're closed at six o'clock, so there's not a lot of excess foot traffic in the evening. We are open half a day on Saturday. And we strive to be convenient to the community and to serve the community. And especially the mixed community that we have. Our staff is very, very diverse. We have so many different nationalities and different languages spoken here. And we pride ourselves on that. And we hope to continue that with this location. So I just thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. We have no additional. Okay. Well, that may have motion. We'll follow up with a few more. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This will you all? Yes. It's turning. Yes. Here are votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. We move on to the interpretation case. Get into it for 12 here. This is case B08168. 529. Which the address of 265 to 269 Mafex Street. With D after 10 in the Wood Bay of Representatives. What present will be places points in the board? Yes. Again, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Good afternoon, Richard Lins. 245 Summer Street. He's bossing the petitioner. I know I don't think you call deferrals on this. In line of the five member board, Madam Chair, we're going to offer seven member board just because of the nature of the request. And that this does involve interpretation. So we do believe it's more corroborated, of course, with the center member board. And we're hoping, because I know I do have a similar one on for March 25th, if it's possible to have it on that same day. I will ask Caroline that question, but we can make no promises on the number of board members up the next hearing. Okay. But can you do March 25th? Okay. Will that man have a motion? Motion to defer to March 25th. Is there a second? Again, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. We'll see you then. Thank you very much. I'm great then. At this time, the board will enter into an executive session. The purpose of the executive session is to discuss with the board's council strategy and court remand order relative to pending litigation litigation. The pending litigation is by a Barbara A. deck as trustee of the Glenville Avenue Realty Trust. You are on by baking and mass greenwoods LLC versus up go Austin LLC and the board of appeal of the city.