 Welcome to the zoning board of appeal for January 12, 2021. We are now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law and the executive order of Governor Baker's suspending certain provisions thereof due to the ongoing public health crisis. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and via video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on screen and you will remain muted until administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. That reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most directly impacted by the project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click it again and your hand should go down. I'm going to just reiterate that if you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please please note this. Press star three to raise your hand. On to comment will be asked to state the name and address first and then can provide the comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Before we formally get started, I'd like to take a roll call of board members. Mr. Fortune. Good morning. Mr. Arleck. Here. Mr. Algerio. Here. Mr. Legress. Good morning, manager. Good morning. Mr. Kandal. Mr. Devaux. Good morning. Mr. Kandal, are you here? Yes. Mr. Devaux. Mr. Devaux. Good morning. Mr. Devaux. Good morning. Mr. Devaux. Good morning. Mr. Devaux. Good morning. Mr. Kandal, are you here? Please let us know when Mr. Kandal is connected because I know sometimes he has audio problems. Just to clarify is a PDA representative here. Good morning, Madam Chair. It's just Hampton. Good morning, Jeff. Happy New Year. Same to you. Okay. So with that roll call in place, we have a full board today. Well, almost a full board. So please let me know when Mr. Kandal comes along so that we can clarify that. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, everyone. Happy New Year. Hopefully 2021 is a lot better than 2020. Well, our first order is the extensions calling the first case, calling BOA, 696299250 Centro Street. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on February 2nd of 2021. Thank you. Good morning, members of the board. My name is David Aiken on the Senior Project. I enter the community builders, the applicant and the project received one year renewal last year. In that time, we have secured the financing that's required from the Department of Hazzy Community Development at Commonwealth. And we expect to be able to break ground this summer, which is the reason why we are coming a fourth for an extension. So remind us how many units this is? This is 110 apartments. Okay. And where? It is right diagonally across from the Jackson Square station. Okay. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Motion. Quick answer. requesting Mr. Weiss. I mentioned this is the first extension. It's for a hospitality, excuse project and the same impacts economically. In fact, a lot of hospitality projects has slowed this one. The proponent has done quite a bit to advance the project design. It has prepared the site for construction, but in the current market, it's not possible to get a construction wound. They're asking for one year extension. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion for a one year extension from the data termination. That's the second, Joe. Paul, that's in favor. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Calling the next two cases, calling B-O-A-7-9-1-775-128-D-V-F-W-P-A-K-W. There's a companion case B-O-A-7-9-1-768-128-C-V-F-W-P-A-K-W. Manor Chia, this is due to expire on March 30th of 2021. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Don Weiss with the firm of Dane Torpese, 745, and Lance Gavane. Again, Mr. Weiss, where is this property and what was it proposed as? This is a 60-unit residential project in West Rocks, experiencing the general vicinity of the El Depot area. This was originally a market rate project. It was proposed by a different developer who was not able to proceed with the project last year, Mike Lyon, which is an affiliate of Beneb Brith, the Jewish Relief Organization that also is a major provider of senior and affordable housing, agreed to acquire the project. The prior proponent had a one-year extension of that time. We are asking for a second extension, but the first extension for this current owner, because the project has been changed from a market rate project to 100% affordable. We want a few affordable projects in West Rocksbury. It's relying on public funds, as well as private funds. And as members of the board are familiar, there are funding rounds that take a while to complete when seeking tax credit financing. And because of the timing of that process, we need an additional year. We are well advanced in that process. We have very good indications and support from the city, but we'll essentially require more time. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to extend for a year from generation. Second, Joe. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Going to the next case, calling the OAA-881055-126 Lexington Street. Madam Chair, this is Duke Expire on January 18th of 2021. Name and address, full of record, please. Is that the advisory on? Is John Moran on? Let's just move to the, I guess, he's also the applicant for. Yes, Madam Chair. I'll move on to the next couple. Yeah. I think the further is next. I think Mr. Moran's on online. Yes. Excuse me, Madam Chair. In reference to 126 Lexington Street, this is a three-unit condominium. The board legalized the occupancy as three units. The unrelated owner of the first floor unit had extended living space into the basement, which resulted in a violation issuing, which stayed the issuance of the permit. Rather than correct the violation, they own a sold the unit. They do own it. In fact, this summer corrected the unit. However, the common area utilities, particularly the gas meters need to be installed outside for access rather than through the unit. Okay. Hold on, hold on, Mr. Moran. May I have a motion, please? Motionor, second for you, we have motion. Thank you. Is there a solution? The closing paper? All right. All right. The opposed motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling BLA 725 224. 37 to 41 Bohn Street. Madam Chief, this is due to expire on April 13th of 2021. Name an address to the record please. John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services, Alpine Way. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is a request for a second extension. The first was on the basis of a denial of the Beacon Hill Architectural Commission of the Certificate of Occupancy, which resulted in litigation being filed. Okay. Hold on, hold on, Mr. Moran. May I have a motion, please? Motionor, second for you, we have a term action. Sarah Second. Second, Ligrith. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, just to let you know Mr. Kendell is online. Thank you so much. Calling the next case. Calling BLA 8889 510 155 Porta Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on March 15th of 2021. Name an address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Happy New Year, Richard Lans, 245 Sumner Street, East Boston, on behalf of the petitioners. Madam Chair, this is a project that involves the conversion of existing manufacturing building into a 123-room hotel. We are requesting a one-year extension. The applicant has completed its design review with the Boston Planning and Development Agency. All plans have been submitted to ISC for permit. That is in the review phase right now and require a additional time to complete that part of the process. May I have a motion please? Motion to extend for a year. May I have a motion to extend for a year. May I have a motion please? Sarah Second. I just, I got a question on this one. This building has been a complete ISOA for a real one period of time with construction materials hanging from the building, all of that stuff. And it seemed to be making no to little progress. I know the cities dealt with that in some other areas. What's really going on here is this command. Through this, Chair, Mr. Giro, I mean, anybody who drives through response is pretty familiar with this site. The current owner actually acquired the project from the prior developer who went through the original permitting process. They have worked diligently to get the project finalized. There were some issues relative to telecommunication pieces of equipment that are on the roof that need to be relocated. Ms. Lynch, point of clarification, who is the current owner? And is there a way that that state of disrepair can be fixed ASAP? I can comment on that as well. So the city of Boston has requested that the current owner, Hudson 62, LLC, Jameson Hotel Management go ahead and close up the windows, close up the building, and just open to the elements. They've done that during COVID. That was something that was completed to the satisfaction of the city of Boston. The mayor's office of the neighborhood services and ISD. And as I said, the process has been somewhat lengthy with the BDA, relative to finalizing the plans that part has concluded. So there's been substantial progress on getting the plans completed into ISD for final building permit. Once the member is issued, they're ready to commence with construction. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'll second my motion. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. In XK's calling, VLA 890701656, our atoga street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on January 18th of 2021. Maybe not addressed for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Richard Lins, 245 Sunder Street, East Boston, on behalf of the petitioner. I'm in chair. This was approved back in 2018 for purposes of erecting a 30-unit residential dwelling in the courts of article E.D. The similar situation here, the plans have been finalized with BPA. They are in for permit and those are being reviewed by ISD. The applicant is ready to begin construction once the permit issues, and therefore requires additional time until such time is at a curse. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Motion to extend for you or beyond the intermulation. Sarah's second. I'll second that, Madam Chair. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. All your next case, calling, VLA 82172674A74 Lexington Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on January 18th of 2021. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Attorney John Haskell, Dr. Ocasgiano, was a business address of 11 Beacon Street. The permit for this matter actually issues late last week. That's negating the need for this extension. How are we thank the Board for the time to consideration? Okay, so we're just going to make a may I have a motion for denial then? To make a motion for denial. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. All your next case, calling, VLA 701484331 Columbia Road. Madam Chair, this did expire on 9, 2 of 2020. Name and address for the record, please. Robert Nichols, addresses 329331 Columbia Road. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. This project was approved originally on 9, 12, 2017. And we financed this project, crowd lending. I'm a partner crowd lending on 5, 16, 2019. And the bar were actually abandoned the project. He dug the foundation, just had a lot going on personally and was not able to complete the project. We do have a developer who wants to move forward and acquire and finish this project. However, Mr. Nichols, hold on a second. What is the proposal for 331 Columbia Road? It's a three family. It was approved for three residential units. And so is this being done by a nonprofit? What, I mean, the fact of the matter is this is expired. Really not really do not extend expired projects. Madam Chair, Kevin O'Connor here. Just a point of clarification, the expiration of the prior extension is told currently under the legislation for 2020 during the state of emergency. So it is told. It's still valid. Right. Okay, so please tell us so when do you anticipate this will be done? So the developer who is going to take it over is very experienced in the community and in the neighborhood. Who is it? Solomon Schaudhary. Oh, okay. Yep. And we anticipate the completion within six to eight months of his act acquiring the property from us. Can Mayor have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to extend from the date of expiration, which is nine to 20. So I hope you can get the stand by Mr. Timber. Who can I? Second hand motion. Third second, all those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, calling the last extension, calling BLA 898191, 40-mountain Hood Road. Madam Chair, this is not due to expire until June 27th of 2021. Name and address for the record, please. All right, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jared Iberman, Rubin Jr. Sonoros, 171 High Street in report mass. This is a 151 apartment complex replacing a hotel in the river. So we know where or anyone. Any other questions? Yes, Mr. President, please. Mr. President, please. Yes, Mr. E. Mistagum and Go ahead. Yes, I'm sorry. Yes, so it's 151 units with 16% affordable. So tell us why you need this extension? Yes, financing. We need time to get financing due to COVID. It's just taking more time. The reason. Hold on, hold on. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, given that it's not due to expire until June 27th, we wanted to further and wait. No, I think we should just go ahead and do it. You know, because at least then the, at least then it's off the dock and we don't have to worry and they don't have to worry. Okay, then I'll make a motion to stand for a year. From from the date. All those in favor? I see. Second the motion. All those in favor? All right. All right. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Mr. Olic, I think you raised a good question. I think if any come before us that are the one five or six months, we should hold off on those. Okay? Okay, Madam Chair, I'm going to call the 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals? Just give me the address first, please. This is the 930 only deferrals or withdrawals. Madam Ambassador, do we see any hands raised? Okay. Madam Chair, I'm going to call the first case calling BLA 1102410220 William McClellan Highway. This is seeking to change the office, we from medical matter wanted to a cannabis establishment. The violation of the Article 53 Section 15, cannabis establishment is conditional. They may address for the record, please. Thank you, Mayor Rock. I suppose the Ligress recusing myself on this matter. Thank you. This is okay, go ahead, put your name and address on the record. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board Attorney Jeff Grego, which may go to Spana with that, with the 11th Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the HVV Massachusetts Enk the Applicant, we also have James Christopher, the architect of the project, our CK. As was mentioned, we are seeking to change the existing occupancy, which is medical cannabis facility to a full cannabis establishment that would include adult use. This particular location is located along 1A and East Boston. What is unique about it as you can see, there is no residential housing in this immediate area. Our closest residential housing is over a thousand feet away. Okay, so Mr. Grigatoss has medical marijuana actually moved into this facility or has it not? So, Madam Chair, it's a great question. So, we were approved in November of 2016. We did not by the time we were able to build out and submit everything to the CCC. We were not able to get our approval, our final comments, operations granted until April 28th, 2020. And I was right at the height of the pandemic, so we really shut down. So, at this point, we just wanted to go forward with it. We had already been in the process of applying for a recreational app at the end time. So, we were prepared to open, but due to that, we were not able to. Okay, so Mr. Drago, let's just go get to the chase then. So, tell us, have you gotten a complete approval for this establishment from the Commission? From Medical Yes, and then we were approved for recreational on November 18th, 2020 from the Boston Cannabis Board. If we were to be approved by this board today, or recreational adult use, we would then move forward with our application. This looks given the location. It looks like a lot that doesn't have very many guys on it. Can you tell us how it's proposed to operate as a full cannabis establishment? So, it will have, so this particular location is in a commercial area, which makes it great for a carb, a traffic, and a vehicular traffic. We have over 42 parking spaces available, which also include spaces for employees. So, this is a great destination spot. It is a long one A, so there is a lot of commercial activity around it. We have a full security plan. We will have three security personnel on staff at all times, and we also have cameras both on the inside and the outside. What it also has is two large loading bays, which is unique for a cannabis facility. So, all of the loading or unloading of cannabis would be done in the security of the inside facility strictly by personnel, so away from the public eye. There's plenty of area inside this building for queuing. It can hold 50 people within the lobby, and plenty of area to queue along that. With the pandemic, but we don't expect that to happen. We believe it would be more like 24 folks. Okay, so just let's assume normal life continues. How are you going to prevent loitering? So, we have full security facility outside as well as inside, and then a whole infrared camera cameras on the outside of the building and the inside of the building that are monitored 24 hours. So, that sounds passive. What are you actively doing to a proposing to do to limit loitering? So, I mean, we've met with the police department. We've talked with the community. We have folks inside and outside. I think we have a great security plan. We have John Gray, our security professional, who's also here to testify. It need be as well. Okay, so you are and the applicant. Who is the applicant on? Yes, Michael Reardon, who is the co-CEO and owner of On the Wall? Mr. Reardon, can you identify yourself, please? I don't know if he's an awesome. I'm here. Can you guys hear me? Yes, put your name and address on the record, please. Chair, Michael Reardon, president of HV Massachusetts Inc. Address is 38 Great Republic Drive, Gloss from Massachusetts. Okay, so Mr. Reardon, the box will stop with you because Mr. Drego and Mr. Christopher are hired guns. So, tell us in your words how are you going to make sure there's no late night loitering or just general loitering, which is a very great possibility. I'm okay. Sure, so during the day time and operating hours of the facility, we will have our security staff both inside and outside, and the outside staff is obviously fully committed and their actual main purview is to ensure that any customers vacate the property immediately after they have a purchase transaction take place. So there's no more in our parking lot and no consumption of cannabis on our property because that is not allowed in say law, there's no public consumption allowed on this property. So the staff will be asking everyone and facilitating that they depart after they have completed transaction. And if anyone is on our property that actually is not a customer doing up to enter the facility or just actually waiting for somebody to exit the facility and a vehicle, people will be asked to move along. As Jeff mentioned, we have 360 degree coverage externally of this facility. So much so that John Gray recently, our director of security, was contacted by a Boston Police Department regarding an accident that took place right outside our facility. So we have great camera coverage, it's monitor 24 or 7. If any any activities in our infrared sensors go off outside of our operating hours and it's of any substance we, for instance, somebody trying to get into the building, we are notified. And what is your operating hours? It's 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 7 days a week. Okay. And are you taking any online orders to use the wait time? Yes, it's a represents about 50% of our business. So the repeat customers prefer an online transaction because they're not doing any shopping. They know what they want. They look at our menu online and they place that order. Upon their arrival, they have to have the 4ID checks in order to get their product. But it is an expedited process that typically takes less than six minutes. Okay. And is there any screening and buffering of the property proposed? None more so than what we have currently done today. Okay. If is that in your slide deck? And if it is, please let Colott know what page it's on. In the meantime, Mr. Orange, how are the plans? The drawings are pretty straightforward. They're a little adequate. Mr. Drake, but looks like there's a little bit of a bizarre change to the exterior correct. Correct. Correct. That happened during the process. And was it significant? Did it concern you, Ms. Thalwick? No, no, just that I think if we approach the Trevor BDDA, it's kind of a few. That's all. So unlike many of these projects, well, in Terry's innovation, this includes Sonic Terrier. What happened? Are there any questions for the board? I just, I got one question. Is there a key on the, is there going to be a key on the driveway? I'm just thinking like after I was. After that, yes, there will be right now we're, we have a temporary fence as a barrier to entry, but when we do close for the evening at 9 p.m., we will have an operating gate, security reasons to keep track, to keep anyone from coming into the facility after hours. Yeah, I'm going to be. Okay, perfect. That was all. Thank you. Any other questions? Is this, is this the slide for screening and buffering against the property? So the map here, there's only a small area because most of it's all parking and in the back of it, it's fencing. We can. So how about along 1a? Is there any screening and buffering proposed there? So they, I mean, we're the fence line is there's, it is really sidewalk if you see it and then block block, we can certainly add some planters or anything like that. We want to maximize parking, but certainly can. Okay, thank you. Is anybody here to speak of support? That's your proposal. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, we met a million of your office of neighborhood services. We'd like to look at the recording support. There were no concern expressed by residents, but during the community process and the Office of Neighborhood Services also received a letter of support from the state representative, Adrian Meadard. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, I have one right hand. Thank you. Go ahead. Madame Chair, members of the board, my name is Luigi Natali from the Office of Senator Joseph Bon Cori's office and he is in full support of this project. Thank you. Good morning, chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Leigh Edwards, the Councilor would also like to go on record his work. Thank you. I also have one more raised hand, um, caller. Two, seven. Are you being muted? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, my name is Peter. I'm the carpenter's union first of all, which you all good health and excellent 2021. Madame Chair, we want to go on record on support of this petition. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no raised hands. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? We'll make a motion to approve with the BPDDA design review for the exterior of the building, and the exterior of the building. Thank you, Chair. Jeff, please make sure that that gate that's being proposed is solid enough, and screening and buffering is Mr. Oli, as mentioned, is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thanks, members of the board. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling BOA 111932651, Jeffree Street. This is an interior full-gathered renovation installation roof deck, the unit three. Replace existing fire escape with three-story porch system, egress, stairs to ground to include extension of living space into the basement. The violation of Article 53 Section 9, insufficient side to add setback, Article 53 Section 9 excessive FAR, Article 53 Section 9 insufficient railing add setback, Article 53 Section 52, roof structure restrictions, roof access, and Article 53 Section 52, roof structure restrictions. Name and address, hold the record, please. Ms. Sierra on? Ms. Ambassador, do you see her? Yes. Yes, I do. One second. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes. Please put your name and address on the record. Thank you. My name is Claudia Sierra, and 51 Jeffrey Street East Boston. So tell us what you're proposing to do. So this proposal is to fully renovate a three-family structure in Jeffrey's point, and add in basement space to the living area of unit one, and a small roof deck for exclusive use of unit three. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Alec? The roof deck is fine. It's accessed by rear stairs. The living space in the basement is problematic in many of these proposals. The, and appears at the floor, basement floor to grade is four foot six, which would mean, so I'm curious from the applicant about the liking and how far below grade it is. So the height of the basement, I believe is seven four, and how many units will there ultimately be? There still be three units. We're not having any. You're required to have sevens with six, not seven four. Yeah, I don't, I don't recall, I'm sorry, I do not recall the exact height of the of the basement ceiling. I mean, we can't approve something without knowing that. That's a total, that would be essential co-vibration. And what is the use of that basement space? It's just a different living space for the first floor. It's a bathroom, it's a bathroom, a living room and bathroom. Okay, so the thing, Mr. Er, is that the problem with that four foot six is that if somebody is in that bedroom, they will not be, and there's a fire in the bathroom or, I don't know, somewhere else. That person will not be able to really, if they need to escape through the windows, will not be able to do so. I understand that. I think we are in full compliance. Fortunately, I don't, I can't find my files with the actual height. We have a pocket check on this. David Choi. Okay. Is he on the call? No, he's not on the call. But in order for us to propose the additional living space, the height was also taken into consideration. Right, the problem is that there's no elevations on the, well, it's unclear, I mean, are there windows, okay, there are, I'm sorry, there are two front windows, correct. And with windows, wells, how is that, I don't see that being shown on the drives. So the basement has a retainer wall that is in front of the windows, which allows the appropriate height from the retainer wall to the windows exit. We had it inspected by ISD and they were fine with the height of the windows. Okay, so to tell us how circulation will walk in that unit, because if you're living rooms on the basement, does somebody enter on the first floor into bedrooms? So the first floor, we're working on making this probably some adjustments to make sure that there is more flow and there's not so many walls. So the living space downstairs, if we can move it up a little bit, I'm sorry, to the, okay, so this will be one space, would not live in room, the living room will be upstairs in the first floor. So there will be a bathroom and one bedroom downstairs and the living room will be in this, in the main unit, in the main level. So what will be where the living room is now showing to be? There's only going to be the bathroom and one bedroom. So the entire basement space would be a bathroom and a bedroom? No, there is to the left of the, and the utility room, there's a utility room, but the rest of the space will be one bathroom and a bedroom. Madam Chair, with the applicant saying it does not correspond to what the drawings are showing, I don't feel all that comfortable going forward. So I wonder Mr. Olic, if we can on the plans, accept that living room space and the basement and put certain provisos in place with no building code relief. May I just say something? Our plan reviewer, no, we, so just hold on, we are in discussion. What do you think of that concept, Mr. Olic? Well, I don't understand if there's only a bedroom and bathroom, you've got this large space, it's now the living room, what's it going to be? Okay, so that's what I was going to say. When I was going to the community process, no, no, that's not a standard plan. Ingent is. Exactly, so the utility room will be larger to accommodate the sprinkler units, because this building will be fully sprinkled. And as it is in the plans, the sprinklers will not, the tanks will not be able to sit there. So the community, the utility room will be bigger. And then the rest of the free space will be one bathroom in a bedroom. We already have a set of plans. With that, I mean, I can send them, and what happened was we received no indications that we needed to resend anything new to anyone. And we just found out yesterday that it will take two extra weeks for review. Okay, so let's just put a motion for the farrow in place. We need to have the actual plans that we're approving. And we don't have them, so I'll make a motion to the farrow. Is that a motion? All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. It post. No, areas to date, please. Matt, we are into March 30th of 2021 at 1230. March 30th at 1230. Okay, we'll see you then in the meantime as soon as possible, please submit the tight plans. And also note that you should have on the right is what the floor to ceiling height is. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling the LA for one. I'm sorry, I was there a second on the motion. I second the motion. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-105-7383-73-Fell-Construed. Madam Chair, Ed DeVoe, I am going to accuse myself on this project. Thank you. This is your correct A3 family dwelling with rear deck. The violations, Article 27T-5. This is in the e-spossed and i-bar. Article 53-Section A3 family dwelling is the bill. Thank you. Article 53-Section 56, off-free parking in sufficient. Article 53-Section A and the floor to the ratio is excessive. Article 53-Section A and the bill on high is excessive in storage. Article 53-Section A and the bill on high is excessive in fee. Article 53-Section A and front edge in sufficient. Article 53-Section A and side yards in sufficient. And Article 53-Section A and the ratio is in sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the floor. Richard Lins, 245 Summer Street e-sposs on behalf of the petitioner. Chair, this is an existing 2400 square foot lot on the Eagle Hill section of e-sposton. And as a secretary indicated, we are proposing a three unit dwelling new construction on the site. This will contain a total of three all two bedroom single bath units. They're approximately about 12 to 13 yards per feet each. So very generously sized could easily be accommodated or modified to allow for a three bedroom. With respect to the relief that's necessary, this is located at 2F-2000 district. We do comply with the minimum lot size and lot with requirements. We do require relief for one of the conditions we're proposing with respect to side yard. We are located in the building just under a foot off of the left side of the property. We are setting it back three feet on the right side which is closest to the the gear structure to our right. And that will also allow for openings on the right side of the building. We are requesting relief for the rear yard of nest measured from the dex. We're at about 16.6 feet as you can see here on the site plan. The lot is 87.5 feet deep which would qualify it for a shallow lot exception. And therefore while the required typical rear yard setback is 30 feet raised through. Hold on, Councillor Collette. Can you please move to the right room so we can see how it looks in context. Go ahead Mr. Liz. Yeah, so with respect to the rear yard, the actual depth that's required in the code is 23.75 I'm not requesting advance. In the two left district, now two and a half stories but 35 feet is the maximum allowable height. As you can see, this is the front yard rendering. This side of Falcon Street is consistent mostly triple-decker type buildings. We are proposing something that is relatively consistent height. Collette, we do have a better rendering in context if you could scroll down a little bit further than they would have. So what we're trying to do is propose something that meets at least respects the character but also providing an off-street parking at the lower level. The height of our building now cheers a total of 39 feet, 11 inches, slightly over the 35 foot height limit that's permitted. We do show in the plan. We are able to accommodate at least two parking spaces with some configuration of proposed storage. We are actually confident we can get three parking spaces total in the site. We are requesting the leafboard. Nonetheless, we were cited for insufficient off-street parking. We were able to address that. I'm happy to answer any questions. Are you proposing any roof deck? There is no roof deck proposed with respect to this project. I know, headhows or anything. Yes. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who's the architect on this? It's Frank Del Mudo. He's on the call with us as well. Okay, thank you. And for you proposing a cut to that study, just as it's already. There's an existing curb cut already on the site. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Olic? The problem is pretty straightforward. With respect to the curb cut Mr. Lin, in that photograph of site context, there was two existing curb cuts. I assume the year will use the right one and close up the left one. So I believe Mr. Olic, we're looking at two, there are two lots here. We do not hold it to the left. So that is a driveway for the joint building. Okay. And so the one in that photograph is down the right, that will stay as the drawing stone. I do not know what the width of that curb cut is. I believe it'd be 12 feet. Mr. Olic, it's the standard residential curb. Okay. All right. The drawings are okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. In the tramiling with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services, we would like to go on the recording support during the committee process, the applicant address most of the concerns of the avarice and this proposal received a super from Eagle Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair, Madam the board, Ricardo Catron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on the record and support. Madam Chair, we have no raised hands at the moment. Sorry, sorry. Madam Chair, Secretary here. We have one letter of support, one letter of opposition. Excuse me. Carried fully. Councilor Saby George's office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion? Motion told from VPPA Designed You. Second, Joe. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. And again, Jeff, if you can make sure that Comrade's door is feel formidable. So thank you. Calling the next case, calling BLA 1132440133 Broadman Street. This is a new seven unit residential building with seven parking spaces, a private roof deck. Violation, Article 10, Section 1, Archtree Parking. Archtree Parking Limited Area. Article 53, Section 56, Archtree Parking's Insubpiction. Article 53, Section 8 uses for bed and seven unit building, two families max. Article 27T-5, it's in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 52, Roots Tax Restriction. Article 53, Section 9, the Floyd A. Ratio's Excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the Bill of High and Excessive and Stories. Article 53, Section 9, the Bill of High is Excessive and B. Article 53, Section 9, Front Yards and Suficient. Article 53, Section 9, Side Yards and Suficient. And Article 53, Section 9, the way is in sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, I'd like to re-cute myself from this. Madam Chair, I need to re-cuse myself as well. Okay, so that means we have a five member board. The applicant needs to know that for this project to move, we would need, he would need or she would need all members in support. So you can, if you'd like, request an administrative deferral until such time there is a full board. Madam Chair, I've had a chance to speak to my client about this. We elect to proceed at this time. Okay, let's go ahead. Thank you. And for the record, Mr. Lens, 245 Somers Street, on behalf of the petitioner, Ricky Bello. Madam Chair, this involves an existing two family dwelling. This is probably a good place to stop, which is actually the last home on Bourbon Street, the Orange Heights Section to be sposted. It is bounded by essentially McClellan Highway, the hotel at the Hilton Garden across the street. And then a large two acre, unbuildable parcel that's owned by, formerly owned by the son of the divine province involved with the donor, leone nursing home on the hill. Our proposal would erect a new seven unit dwelling with a total of seven parking spaces. The unit sizes are approximately all about a thousand square feet to bedroom to bath. And this is intended for home ownership or on completion. This does sit on the existing 4,000 square foot lot, which is conforming under Article 53. It also has sufficient frontage at 51 feet. We are proposing a setback on the side, three feet on the left, which is closest to McClellan Highway, with willing back is no residential structures. They're proposing a 10 foot setback on the right. One of the reasons we located the driveway on the right side of the building, as we work very closely with the director butters to the right to assist them with providing off-shoot parking on their property as well. We are proposing setbacks of about 10 feet on the rear. 29 feet would be the actual required setback. But again, we're looking at a approximately two acre site that is non-buildable. There are de-restrictions in the existing title for that property that do not allow any of the built on the site directly to the rear. Our building would be, it's being cited as a five-story-wise we're seeing here. We're showing it as a total of four stories. I believe it's just under 45 feet. Our foot area ratio is 2.34. Our point eight is allowable and we do require a total of nine parking spaces based on the calculation of Article 53 and we are proposing seven. So I'm happy to answer any questions before it. There are a couple of questions to your proposed roof decks. So we did include roof decks with headhouses and this was something that we did discuss with the community. I do fully appreciate the Boorix concern over roof decks but in taking this on a case-by-case basis and considering that the surrounding neighborhood and the context surrounding neighborhood, there will be little to none to no visual impact for many headhouses proposed in this case and again because we do have the call the way to our left the Hilton Garden hotel to our front and then nothing behind us are nothing able to be behind us. We feel that the impact from the headhouses is minimal. My client is fully imaginable to see being fully put in relief and to go by hatch but we wanted to at least include that with the proposal for the Board to review. Okay and there are a couple of other notes that the deck's okay okay let's see the stairway house does not meet Harren's awful setbacks. Is that addressed? So again we are requesting relief on the side yard. At least on the left side we would probably would not be within the step back requirement. Seven feet is required in the 2L 4000 district so the headhouse to the left would likely be non-compiled with the side yards at back and out to the right would be however the left would be in violation of Article 53. Again the nearest the bottom is McCollum Highway to the left. Yes okay um Collette can you get to the show us the view and tell us how parking is proposed to work? We also have Eric's opposite who's the project architect. I believe we do have a site plan showing the access from the right side of the property with the number of parking spaces oriented towards the rear. We do show an area based upon the size of this building again towards the rear left for a transform and again this is a becomes a more consistent or frequent requirement for these type these size projects in the neighborhood. So we do show the seven parking spaces oriented around the map portion of the property. How are the plugins Mr. Alec? Well the drawings are fine I do have a question on the elevations with with respect to the roof decks and headhouse. This is a question on the side elevations at the E31-32 they're drawn in clearly and on the front rear elevations A30 be sort of shadowed as if it's not really possible if the derby is to be there. Is there a reason for that? Just to show that they are set back from the front of the side they are directly on the front side but they are set back from the front and rear of the side. Okay, I'm quite surprised that's all but they'll be visible there at the same as the other side so in any case down here the drawings are fine there are headhouses and if we approve this I would suspect we would want to change that. Okay any other questions from the boy? Madam Chair Ed Devaux, a train lens if you could I mean no fall to the to the owners of the developers of this property but that is a bit of a nightmare intersection there as well as if you could possibly just explain a bit more about entering and exiting the property in terms of parking I know there's some gridlock at the intersections of lead board and Ian McLellan I can be a nightmare particularly in the morning if we ever get back to them also if you could just walk me through that that would be helpful please. Yeah so good good question Mr. Devaux I'm obviously very familiar with that area. Just literally coming out of the property you would not be able to probably believe this is WLL on Bourbon Street you would only be taking a right turn only and then access to the property if the access from Bourbon Street as well there would not be the ability to take a left turn off of Bourbon onto the site so you have to either come back down and actually shoot early back into Bourbon Street. Okay thank you. Okay I understand that this is the end of the block so to speak but the character of the of the street appears to be the 35 feet about 35 feet is that right? So it actually is a mixed bag Madame Chair because we do have a six-story hotel directly across the street I don't know if it's shown in any of the I'm familiar with that I'm just talking more about the presentation of the boardman. Yeah so there is there is a mix on Bourbon we've done a number of projects on the end of lead shoot where Bourbon Bourbon merges we do have some four-story buildings at the end of lead as well there isn't a building that is at the intersection of lead and Bourbon I think it may not be shown but the reverse view of this here there's a four-story multi-family I believe it's a 12-unit building that merges at the intersection. Okay any other questions from the board? Is anybody here speaking support of this thing? Good morning Madame Chair members of the board and the central element the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services we would like to go on the recurring support the Office of Neighborhood Services Helena Barrett's meeting on September 22nd where the applicant addressed several of the concerns of the Abbas we received 15 layers of support including from Abbas including two of the provides. Thank you. Good morning Madame Chair members of the board Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards the Councilor would like to leave this proposal at the discretion of the board. And I wish you a round of applause. Hi. Tara, are you going to speak? Any uh miss ambassador anybody else? So would it raise hands? No ma'am oh actually I've been here. Madame Chair secretary here we have 15 letters of support and I have a raise hand from 7-7-8-5-2 how you've been unmuted? Yeah hi I'm Linda Knox and I'm the direct abouter of this project and I hear of everyone's concerns but it's far as the driveway that's really not a concern right now three casks back in tandem and we have no problem getting out because even people you know know the situation at the red light or they're just kind but you can also take a left and go on for what I mean I just wanted to correct that because right in front of my house there's a break in the road where you're supposed to take a left if you're coming down latin street so we call out and actually take a left there and as far as the look of the building the property Ricky has worked hard with us because we were concerned originally but you know he's been amenable to all my requests and I feel very confident this would just be a plot Madame Chair at Devogue at attorney lins could you just confirm though it will be a right turn only I can confirm that there is a double I believe there's a WL line so right turn only out of the property and I want to just add one thing currently vehicles back out onto Bourbon Street this project would allow for vehicles to come out and take a turn so actually improve the safety of access to the site okay thank you very much okay may I have a motion please make a motion to approve the two visos BPD design review and the access to the roof guide be by hatch second second second that head devote second that run all those in favor I take any opposed motion carries thank you very much calling in x case calling BLA 106 9135 280 Eagle Street this is a change actually to a four unit residential dwelling and a directly roof deck the the violation of article nine section one extension of an conforming use article twenty seven t-5s in the east Boston iPod article 53 section eight the use is conditional article 53 section nine excessive FAA article 33 section nine insufficient side yard setback article 33 section 52 access to the roof deck 56 office insufficient office street parking name and address folder record police madam chair members of the board Richard lens 245 slender street east Boston on behalf of the petitioner I'm going to transmit some pre-existing three unit dwelling in the Eagle Hills section to be spost in I'm going to clarify the record the violation included a description to add roof deck during the community process we eliminated the roof deck so there is no roof deck being proposed a lot of respect to this project the proposed change would result in an extension of living space into the basement area as you can see from the you'll see from some of these side renderings inside views of the property this has a pretty substantial exposed foundation as the corner condition of this property descend down towards Condor Street so we have almost a fully exposed basement towards the rear portion of the property we would be proposing approximately a two bed 750 square foot two bedroom unit in the basement level we are able to comply with all the building code requirements include include property means of egress for this particular space in the building obviously would be fully sprinkled based upon renovations to the property this ended at two f 2000 district and as we said it's already a pre-existing non-conforming structure the change from a three family to a four family would involve an extension of the non-conforming use we would also require variants for the existing condition of of FAR which is already at 1.95 that would be increased to 2.51 and then Article 53 requires that any proposed additional dwelling units for pre-existing non-conforming structures would be required to be required to comply with the parking for that additional unit so a variant for one parking space is also being requested we're not changing anything what's the floor ceiling height please it's eight feet four inches clear throughout the entire basement the utilities how will the separate utilities be accommodated so as you can see here this this fullings screen we do show a common mechanical that are accessed from the rear of the building the entire building would have access to that which is required for the building hood so there is no requirement to enter the unit or to go inside the unit for any of the mechanical service to building and from the photograph it looks like the current windows are essentially peep holes will both be extended in any way that's correct so the windows on the rear and the right side of the building will be modified I believe we're actually incorporating some full-sized windows on the right side of the building including a one four-lit bedroom it's okay okay I see that how the plans are okay on that basement unit unit B well it looks very tight in the front in terms of relation to the grade it does the property just slowed down dramatically and it's actually great at the at floor level in the rear so as long as our large windows this should be adequate okay any questions from the board is any here in support of this also good morning madam chair members of the board Linatra Melinda Bayer's Office of Neighborhood Services we would like to go on the recording support during the community process the applicant worked close with the community and had most of the concerns and we also received 11 letters of support from providers including one direct a balance thank you good morning madam chair members of the board Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards the council would also like to go on the record and support thank you madam chair I see no but just anybody here to speak either and support our in opposition yes good morning madam chair members of the board Karen Foley vice-habi George's Office would like to go on record and support thank you thank you madam chair secretary here we have 14 letters of support in one letter of opposition and what is the opposition based on opposed to the project in general okay given that information may as an exception please motion to approve and jockey one designer of you no not for a basement unit I don't think their exterior change is especially with the roof type game with both yeah okay just a straight-of-druple second job all those in favor aye any opposed motion carries thank you very much we'll call the next case calling BOA 113 3745 49 Utah street this is a constructed roof deck addition to the fair floor unit the violations article 27D teeth that's five this is in the east boss and i pod article 53 section 52 roof structure restrictions article 53 section nine side yards insufficient article 53 section nine the way yards insufficient and article nine section one extension of an art conforming use statement address for the record please who was here representing Utah street i'm a manual i've been unuted yes i'm muted now good morning madam chair members of the board this is Nathaniel Brevard for 49 Utah streets by addresses 145 Washington ad windthroat so tell us what's being proposed sure so this project is just for a roof deck it is a two and a half story building in the Eagle Hill section of east Boston the deck will be built on top of the rear of the second floor that will allow the third floor to walk out onto it and rear of that unit for their exclusivity this is a refound is it a refounding like yes it is okay like how the plans wrong to find okay is any questions from board anybody here to speak in support of this proposal good morning madam chair members of the board lean a tramel him with the mayor's office of table no services we would like to go on the recording support during the community process this proposal receives strong support from our buyers and from in-hield civic association thank you good morning madam chair members of the board are cartoed from the office of city council or Lydia Edwards the council would also like to go on the record and support good morning madam chair members of the board carrot foley councilor saviage is office would like to go on record and support thank you is anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition madam chair secretary here we have one letter of support madam chair I see no raised hands at the moment may I have a motion please motion to approve is there a second second job all those in favor i imposed motion carries following an x-case calling BLA 109 0 4 3 2 11 half clear mod park this is off-speed parking for two vehicles the biolays and dot it will 64 section 36 off-speed parking required maneuvering in access area name and address for the record please good morning madam chair members of the board markler cast 75 Arlington street in Boston turning for the applicant this is a use of premises application to confirm two parking spaces at the rear of a two family dwelling at 11 and a half clear mod park it is a condition that has existed for over 50 years letting sit with the other renovations to the property ISD asked us to file a use of premises permit application to confirm the two parking spaces they are both at the rear of the property and are accessed by private alley number 536 which is between Greenwich Park and Claremont Park and it is a condition that is similar to every other house along that stretch of Claremont Park the two spaces are 20 feet by 10.5 feet so they meet the size requirements for parking spaces but ISD cited the maneuverability because it's accessed from a private alley and how many units is so this is dedicated to 11 and a half Claremont to how many units in that building it's a two unit clandominium building okay how are the plans miss Olic well there's one plan on site plan and it's a mr. Ocas it's a little confusing the the private way I assume is in the rear refer that shows on the drawings since the 10 foot wide passageway is that it yep it's known as private alley number 536 on the city assessing map and it's between Greenwich Park and Claremont Park and every property I'm looking at the assessing map I'm looking at the drawing you provided yep so that 10 foot wide passageway is that the issue that's the access issue we're not quite sure why ISD recommended that we file a use of premises application for parking spaces that have existed for over 50 years perhaps it's because parking spaces that are part of condominium buildings are now being assessed as separate tax parcels so perhaps to clarify that record it was recommended that we do so but as I said every other house along this stretch of Claremont Park as well as Greenwich Park has parking in the rear and not private alley is used for purposes of access to everybody's driveways back there and and is the issue it has been raised in maneuverability I can't tell from the drawings whether they're giving you a mobility problem or not it's just the same for every other it's the same for it's the same for every other and like I said the condition has existed for over 50 years and the residents of this building have used the parking back there as has every other resident so it's maneuverability seems to be the default citation for parking spaces but there is maneuverability and these spaces are readily used by the residents okay madam chair I mean I'm you can see it is one of these it's a little hard to make a judgment about that but so okay any questions from the board is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal hi yes good afternoon madam chair and members of the board my name is Kim Hursioli from the mayor's office of neighborhood services the mayor would like to go on right there in the corner of this proposal the mayor's office I'm sorry it was presented before the Claremont neighborhood association and received support and there were no concerns issues from the community thank you thank you anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition is Anna on I'm here but I still think following their counselor please okay may I have a motion please is there a second people help me board members is there a second madam chair I'll second thank you all those in favor I promise thank you any opposed motion carries thank you calling an ex-case calling BLA 111 741 3294 Columbus Avenue this is a change of October for four to five residential units demolished in existing spiral stair infill format in units stair opening in one hour ceiling assembly this is a violation that equals 64 section 36 Austrian parking is insufficient that equals 64 section 8.2 basement units are forbidden name and address for the record please good morning my name is Derek Rupinoff from Derek Rupinoff architect and I'm at 82 spring street in West Ross, we're going to ask chooses some Comcast has been spotted this morning so hopefully I will not be cut off here if I do I'll go back on my phone as soon as possible but I'm on my computer right now good morning to the board thank you for hearing us I am the architect for the project uh represent the ownership of the being currently this is a four unit building um that was given zoning relief to become um to add the two two two stories uh that have been since added uh back in 2015 um and now what the ownership would like to do is take an existing duplex unit that's already finished uh and and and it's legal that is currently on the first floor in the basement and they would like to subdivide that unit into um a separate first floor unit that would be two bedrooms so I would exist that essentially existing to remain and then we would eliminate the the spiral stair between that and the basement part of that unit and then separate the basement part which again is already finished it's already part of the GFA uh it became a studio unit and uh it's really a garden unit that is that level so Derek please tell us then if they're taking a unit and splitting it what what is the size of the basement unit on the size of the first floor unit i did this split yeah certainly the size of the basement unit would be a studio of 497 square feet and the first floor unit would be 800 square feet well don't be honest have adequate use especially since they did go through the first time and get relief of the additional two floors well i think the the market has shifted in their opinion and and what they think would be more more marketable instead of having a three-bedroom unit that's a duplex you know they feel it would be more marketable to see who uh to have a uh two-bedroom unit and the studio in the basement okay uh how about the plans mr. olek yeah um sure it's more marketable i'm sure you can get more for two units than one um um i'm really torn with this because you know it feels that the the applicants have already come for relief have um drafted off of that relief and now are looking to you know uh continue that in the meantime there's understanding the south end um there is no opportunity for off-street parking so um you know anyway um let's just go through the process here what people have to say um are there any questions from the board um just on the plans uh mr. rubanath i don't see any elevations that give me an indication of heights and access and and uh all of that so can you feel us in yeah sure the uh there's a ceiling plan that shows that the there's over eight feet of height in this proposed basement unit um eight feet to eight foot six and then also in the supplemental document um the there's a section that shows the heights of the window the window in the back so we have the uh the exterior perspective certainly we could furnish elevations um if that is required i will add that the basement unit uh next door was approved by the board last year for the very very similar situation is this so let's just see um so the access to this proposed unit would be um down that set of stairs it okay so i see it's the elimination of the circular stairwell okay any questions from any questions from the board is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal right um yes good afternoon madam chair and members of the board my name is Kim crucially from mayor's office of neighborhood services the mayor's office would like to unrecord and support of this proposal and a butters meeting was held and there were no concerns on the same street other parcels that are multi-families have basement units so it fits in with the character of the neighborhood the LS neighborhood association also supports the proposal thank you madam of the chair members of the Guayana Calero from counselor flings office the counselor would like to go on record in support as we have contacted neighbors and the at least neighborhood association who reported no concerns with the project thank you madam chair members of the board Paul Sullivan for city council urge my co-planity the council to go on record support thank you and mr. ambassador i need more raise hands that's madam chair i think you don't raise hands at the moment may i have a motion please motion or approve but do we need a sign review no we don't need to sign review job okay motion approved is there a second second second ligris all those in favor hi hi any opposed for the record i will i will avoid my opposition motion carries okay thank you to the board of appreciate calling next case calling bla1051295332 to 340 summer street the applicant speaks to continue to use premises as a public park for the fee for capacity of 40 vehicles which expired on December 30 for us 2020 the violation dotical six six and four a change in the previous decision is only voted appeal and an address for the record please good morning madam chair members of the board david got leave 309 washington street and bright the applicant seeks to extend the use of premises for the until january 31 2024 the applicant has recently made improvements to the premises in fall 2020 those improvements were approved by the four point channel landmark district commission they include refurbishing defense that's on boss in world road and also installing a planting bed and landscaping and records to neighborhood outreach we reached out to the four point neighborhood association we spoke with them over the phone and they also visited the premises and they provided us with a letter of support and i submitted that letter of the support to the board okay um how would the uh let me just see oh okay how are the plans mr. olek straightforward um do you have any current photos um i do madam chair thank you for asking that i actually submitted a letter with a significant amount of photos to be i st board of appeals showing the work that had been completed after the landmark commission gave us the approval i would also like to note that we actually obtained a short form building permit uh from and the inspecional services department building department after the landmark commission gave us a certificate of design approval uh that way it could be seen that uh we did the work that the landmark commission approved for us and i provided photographic proof uh to the board of appeal i sent i emailed and also sent that priority mail with the photos to the board so this is the lock behind road 34 that you enter on by that little road by four point market correct so we're actually the entrance to the lock is actually a located on congress street between the building located at three eight one congress street and the building located at three six nine congress street and in the parking lot is located below great at boss to more fraud as you said behind road 34 restaurant and and so you're proposing to completely entirely clean up that lot are you proposing to have any lighting in there because i know the times i've walked in there i have not felt secure so uh with the improvements that we may uh have been pretty significant we also have do have a maintenance plan where we send people out to clean it out but if you've visited the lot recently will notice that the fence that was installed has been completely refurbished and the planting bed as well has been it's a new planting bed is installed so it's provided screening and the lot has been cleaned up significantly in regards to the lighting the lighting there we feel is sufficient both within the lot and also outside with the additional rights in the public public streets okay and um okay how are the plans mr. olyck as i say that's straightforward okay any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal hi madam chair members of the board hailey dilland mayor's office and new grad service needs to like to call an our good and support thank you hi madden over the chair members of the board i'm a caledon from calthelor flings office the calthelor would like to go and record and support thank you good morning madam gm members of the board Karen fallies uh council and eastward savvy doj's office would like to want record and support thank you madam chair secretary here we have one letter from the four point c-port association and support madam chair i would have to tend to agree with you as far as the lighting i've been down there myself in various capacity of meetings and stuff there are some sort of new lighting that they can illuminate that area a lot better so i would suggest that maybe they could take a look at that um on the use of that mr. fortune about emotion can i i'll make a motion to approve um with b-dia design review for screening buffering lighting and signage um this the sign there is pretty all in this pretty specific guidelines on what the public parking sign should look like that i'm sure standhold garages mr. jerry i was after two year with three year uh usually do two on these right uh every friend and mr. hampton on that we can do three years on that one mr. jerry if you don't mind just that and so this is from the the disambat 35th date um so it would bring us to disambat 23 yes let's put three years i'll second that motion all those in favor hi hi any opposed motion carries thank you calling an x-case calling bnway 1122487 100 n-street this is level three alteration a change of art from an existing 13,995 square foot convent into a proposed really childhood date here to sign out for the self-closening Catholic academy the park that includes the 938 square foot entry and the second floor corridor for the kitchen the new lw elevator with probably protection system the violates dotical 68 section 33 rc parking and loading requirement and article 68 section seven the date k uses would be naming out to us for the record please come on in madam chair members of the board my name is trich morancy i'm an attorney with the business address of 350 west broadway in south-boston madam chair members joining me today on this uh in this meeting are the project architect glen hoffman uh also the uh pastor of gator have been same-prudged parish far the robot kc and helen syvian who is the principal of south-boston Catholic academy madam chair members my client is the uh parish of same gator have been in same-prudges in south-boston Catholic academy the site in question is in south-boston it is located on in-street occupying the portion of the block next to same-prudges church between east-forth street and east-broadway the building in question of 100 in-street is a former convent building for same-prudges parish it is not used as such any any longer uh south-boston south-boston uh Catholic education center is located a block away at the corner of an in-broadway and right now uh incorporates the early education center of the school the proposal is to relocate the students from that early education center create a new south-boston early education center here at 100 in-street uh that would thus free up space for growing demand for the k through six um school services currently offered at the other location uh there's not much of a change in terms of the building is an interior retrofit there is some work uh in terms of the a new entry vestibule um but no expansion of the building vertically or the footprint of the building the area which is currently now an open air area between the church and the convent building would be repurposed as both a drop-off area drive in and drop off for the south-boston early education center uh the site plan shows the uh the proposed 15 parking spaces uh as well as the turning circle for pickup and drop-off um and uh in terms of the violations uh this would be an early education center as i said it is not a daycare per se however daycare is the only item in the use item code which most nearly fits in with what uh this k zero k one uh school uh school which it is with offering so there is um uh relief required for the use also the zoning refute refusal letter sites uh parking uh the required parking here for the new use is nine parking spaces as i indicated 15 would be provided the reason why this was cited on the refusal letter i believe is because in in in the detail on the refusal letter is that uh the the examiner says it doesn't account for parking for the other uses on the site namely the uh the the church the church has its own parking uh which uh looking at the site plan is uh up at 11 o'clock it's on the east forward street side uh of uh of the of the site plan which is the subtly side of the church uh none of the parking for the church is impacted and how many how many uh children are you in are they anticipating in this space they're anticipating five classes of uh 15 children uh essentially what the number is now at the other location at the corner of owing broadway uh and uh also the there'll be staggered times for for the preschool uh so that uh there'll be some drop-ops occurring occurring at seven seven thirty and eight a.m. and the pickups would occur at two thirty five p.m. and five thirty p.m. uh in the school would up uh that's uh at capacity that would be seventy five gifts how many how many staff people on the site are you anticipating uh i can uh ask Helen Sivian who is the principal uh to talk about the number of staff uh people again these are people who would be uh otherwise working a block away um uh this was the new look i honestly Helen uh how many you were available on the call if you could raise your hand go file the casey yep i'm going to hi Helen put your name and address on the record please and tell us how many staff you're anticipating being on the site you've been unmuted you make sure what's going on madam chair father kc perhaps is okay yep i see him uh immune a father kc been unmuted and hi father kc in the meantime um it's uh like how the pets oh the drones are all okay you know okay oh uh father kc we can hear you can you just put your name and address on the record and tell us how many staff are anticipated in the meantime is anybody here uh to speak in support of this proposal any questions i'm sorry is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal hi madam chair members of the board hailey gill and mayors offices neighborhood services the mayors offices and full support of this proposal thank you hi my name is jr members of the board and i call it on from counselor explaining office that counselor would like to go on recording support go to a two-community office and work with the mayors and city point may go hold association it is counselor fling position that's i was on catalytic acar to add a lake care center would provide an option for affordable share care for many families and western counselor fling is specifically support for proposal as it will be a very well resource to the community thank you okay i'm jim members of the board paul solan for city council at life michael flirty the council's wreck has been clear and consistent with article 68 bearing to his residential projects however this proposal is seeking to reuse the convent uh that's no longer a new spring early childhood seats that are an item in the neighborhood they'd like to come in the proponent for working together with the case they're ongoing community self-losting um he would like to offer a support and defer the board's uh knowledge as to hardships under the code thank you thank you i want to have one raised hand for minor madam chair members of the board minor for us purpose and in the carp interceding we like to go and record and support of this project thank you good morning ma'am sorry go ahead okay Karen good morning madam chair members of the board Karen Foley councilor sabi george's office would like to go and record and support this project and we echo the comments of council of flin flirty in the mayor's office thank you very much thank you madam chair secretary here we have three letters of support as well thank you um okay my my goal had been to understand if there's enough parking spaces for the staff people so that we know impact on the community is there is that possible for you to answer mr. maransey yes ma'am so madam chair the currently the the the staff is there's parking associated with self-lost and Catholic academy a block away so the staff for the current you know k zero k one the same staff in other words is currently parked there so there's no increase in the number of staff it's just a relocation of the school services to a block away so you know whether they whether they some may live in the community and and walk to the school or those who currently park at the other location i suspect would currently would would continue to park there okay thank you may i have a motion please i'll make a motion to approve and i i'm gonna suggest bpda design if you there's a new storefront entryway that the crevice bearer look at okay is there a second second ligris all those in favor hi hi any opposed motion carries calling your last case for 930 calling b o a 89717 405 20 doach just around you this is them in roof deck this is the department is it we an issued permit natty roof deck to approve this here from cba violation of the 15 section one the full day ratio is excessive at the 16th section one that highly excessive its stories and article 16 section one latest excessive in speed game and address for the record place mr. morencia you on hello can you hear me now we can go ahead okay thank you um my name is George moran see i'm an attorney with the business address of 350 west broadway in south austin madam chair members uh i know the last thing that the board wants to hear is this sort of an introduction but this is a very very curious case uh and we'll take some explanation uh but uh feel free to cut me off when you think i've spoken enough but this is a matter um of of of our roof deck that has already been approved on the roof of a building that's already been built uh and it was all approved by the board on february 28 2017 uh the the cause of of this coming back to the board is that uh at about the time that uh that this matter uh went to the board and went to the board with uh uh two roof decks uh as well as an elevator override and penthouse a headhouse to access the roof because it is a four-story building with an occupied roof uh at this time in the fall of 2017 the uh inspectional services department was uh at the time uh insisting upon a headhouse access penthouse is the term under the building code and i'll continue to use that term uh requiring penthouse access to occupied roofs on buildings of four more stories uh the plans examiner uh then after this matter was approved by the board um indicated to my client that because there were two roof decks that there needed to be two penthouses uh i have an email exchange and this is the only way i was able to bring myself up to speed with what was going on here an email exchange uh from october 11th which i'm not going to read most of the board asked me to. October 11 2017 with the commissioner of ISD at the time is to Christopher um whereupon i was at uh suggesting that the single penthouse should be considered adequate uh under the um under the building code and the ruling was and commissioner Christopher was in touch with the state board of building regulations and standards the ruling at that time was that they needed to be two penthouses my client was required to file an amend application uh for the second deck which had already been approved by the board but with uh hatch access um um and to submit a new application for that now that's fairly confusing already but uh the mr. bansy hold on how many units in this building? eight eight units. This is eight units how many stories? four stories. And it's four stories and these are access only to two units the drawing that i see front of me when is the difference really shaded and shaded areas? The the unshaded area is the area uh is the uh the roof deck in question again which was already approved by this board and then the the new penthouse uh in in the front that was built to provide access to the unit five roof deck as required by the inspectional services department so in other words the rear penthouse which is shaded has a door coming from that to the roof and that is considered or at the time was considered by i.s.d as the access penthouse for the roof deck on the right the roof deck on the left is the one in question uh in the one where the inspectional service department informed us that it was necessary to add a full penthouse to provide access to that unit five roof deck. This all occurred in 2018. Can i interrupt you from that? Sure certainly. Uh uh i'm sure this is this was discussed but why couldn't they door on the left of the rear penthouse and a little walk we'd be uh adequate to access the left roof deck? This was my question to the inspectional services department in October of 2017 uh in the the answer that i got back mr. erick uh because i suggested the very same thing it was our intention from the beginning that if in fact penthouse access was required for the occupied roof it was provided by the rear common penthouse the position of the inspectional services department at the time was that if there are two decks there need to be two penthouses it was a literal application of the relevant building code section which as the board is aware is not applied the same way today at the time in fact i was told that we would not either the conspectional services department would not even support relief um which actually we already we already got relief because the the board approved it without penthouse access but uh it was post zba approval where upon iSD said because of pressure from the state at that time fall of 2017 uh that they were you know i don't know that the commission used the term cracking down but he said that that they had been contacted by the state and that they were seeking literal enforcement of the penthouse access regulation in the building code and and that's what this is about and just again just a confused matters complicated matters a bit more was there was an abutters meeting held in on November 2018 um and then the hearing for some reason was never scheduled and we didn't find out about this until the certificate of occupancy for the building issued and that c o said uh issued for eight units in one roof deck you know and but not uh the second roof deck because of the pending amende application i contacted zba staff there was no record of the hearing being held and nobody at the time noticed i didn't notice my client didn't notice nobody noticed and we got to this point where we're now four years later and uh it's necessary to clean this up in order to get a full permit and certificate of occupancy so basically you're coming here to ask us for approval for that front um penthouse and the front deck sexually that is correct and everything's been filled do we have to what that looks like it's uh well it's it's on the uh the plans of the board have there that's the floor plan the addresses by 20 those sisters avenue correct yes that is correct so mr. morancy there'll be three penthouses back to back right uh well yeah the the the elevator mr. erick the elevator portion that is is uh that is a full projection of the building you know tell them to force it. Well that's one of the ingredients. It's a single it's a single structure. Will that be a problem? Hold on hold on i'm sorry but mr. uh miss ambasa can you mute everybody please i just need to hear from mr. erick i miss the morancy thank you so so no i do i do i do i don't do all there will be three structures on the roof back to back my question is i can't tell from the drugs are they all the same heights yes okay there yeah the the rear penthouse structure in the front are exactly the same except they're flipped obviously because the stairs are coming up in opposite direction so the four-wheeled angles and the elevator is the elevator uh headhouse of the same height same height everything yes everything is the same height mr. erick okay so at least from a design perspective you've got one essentially looking at it from the outside you've got one rectangular box correct it appears to be a single structure yeah okay okay so i look at the the google bat show me that's really odd because the rendering that's supposed to look on the construction site shows a black roof okay there are two yeah there are two buildings there on the google street view amount of chairs so it's uh uh yeah i think you'll probably looking at the correct one is the building on the the right uh says 520 dot app yeah okay okay um so we just okay so it's essentially a block um okay um okay so i don't know it feels like our hands are tied i must be going to go ahead and ask for the demolition of that front front penthouse um any other questions from the board is anybody here to speak and so i'm sure i'm just gonna ask a quick question sure are the rooms that are they done i'm looking at google google are up here and i don't see any roof decks yes that's that's an old image mr. fortune the building actually units are for sale uh which this is also complicating because uh unit owners uh unit buyers attorneys are insisting upon a full permanent CO and that's what uh what can't happen until until this gets resolved but yes those are just old both the street view and the birds eye view are old images okay thank you okay anybody here to speak and support with this proposal hi my name is chairman of the board hailey dilland mayor's office new bird services like to go record and support thank you thank you anybody to speak either in support or in opposition matter from choice see no raised hands at the moment you know this is the part that just um uh makes us i think as board members and this is not to you mr. maransey but to the universe out there like might be listening that we anticipate that when a project comes before us that's the final the final project the final product um and obviously this kind of brings to mind that that that really doesn't happen that there's all this tinkering that a cut um that that what's everybody in a bind but after making that statement man just have a motion please yeah i'm gonna make a motion to approve i mean i i don't like the idea of adding an additional penthouse we're given the fact that there's already two uh structures and this won't really affect the view line and the roof line it'll just extend it um i guess i'm in the circumstances i'll make a motion to approve and this by no means set suppressorance because we we will take the projects on a case by case basis yes second second all those in favor i any opposed motion carries thank you the board is now adjourned until 1230 i asked that any applicant who may be requesting a withdrawal or deferral please get in touch with mr. vassier as soon as possible so she's aware of your intentions thank you you for um generally 12 is back in session happy new year um i just want to remind people who are on the phone to press star three because i think mr. vassier has taken care of everybody else i will as i did before just take a roll call of board members it's the fortune yeah madam chef mr. ollick kidnap i'm here and we make sure that everybody is ready um mr. rangerio here mr. legris mr. ranger mr. mn chair good afternoon mr. cadal mr. go hey madam chair this is an echo one one side are you aren't you logged into the system sir i'm sorry yeah there's this echo coming from your end i believe it's for my inch okay uh is is it here now no it's all second okay um is um mr. vassier um mr. cadal um and mr. hampton good afternoon madam chair if you're um let's see um can i can i can't can something let me know when tyrone is on um so that we know whether we have a full board or not in the meantime we do have a six-member board um so so uh just to let everybody know that uh we need you need five members in in in support of your project for it to carry madam chair your dollars on okay so i take that back we how we are a full board so let's let's let's let's get moving okay so i'm going to call it the 1230 hearings for deferrals with throules address please only deferrals with throules for 1230 i missed this is secretary Derek fall here yes yes well and twenty-nine rock hill road sure will the record calling calling B.O.A. 106 850 612 rock hill road is the companion case B.O.A. 106 850 929 rock hill road name and address for the record please good afternoon madam chair members of the board of turning Derek small applicant that's the case we're here today sticking with the pearl of these matters um we are built in constant on communications with um the committee group and we are proceeding as may i have a motion please please for motion for is there a second all those in favor hi any opposed motion carries the we have a date of March 30th it's 1230 okay thank you very much we have an echo still are there any other deferrals with throules for 1230 only move miss ambassador any hands up I know hand raised, but they were. Call the first cage. First two cages in. Sorry. Okay. You. No. That's it. Sorry, Jesse. You have in a hot time here and you going in and out. I'm going to go in and out. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sorry. It's coming in and out. You guys hear me? Yes. Okay. Okay. Can we call any other hands, right? Any road, Chas's hands raised. I just get raised. I need to go to the second. Don't. Second. As you call it in. I see a caller to a two. I call. Caller to a two. You've been unmuted. I call her. 727282. You've been unmuted. That news here. Let's just start with blue. Have I. Please. I'm going to go to the next. I'm going to go to the next. I'm going to go to the next. 1123442222228. There is a companion case. 112344814 to 16. Potridge place. 2228. This is a change of oxygen or 22. This is for 14 to 16. Potridge. Is it a change of oxygen or 14. 16. Potridge lane from auto body repair to storage to health club. 50 arguments. The violation. Medical 50 section 19. Health club is conditional. An article 50 section 19. The storage is forbidden. Name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney Nick Sulewland, McDermott, Coltian Miller. Happy New Year. Can you hear me? Okay, Madam Chair. With me today is Mark Opetran from origin property group. VMS 3 LLC. It was the property owner. As you can see here, this is in Dudley Square. It's at the corner of Dudley Street in Blue Hill. It's an underutilized commercial warehouse. It used to be the B.R. guest, the linen and party equipment rental business. And since Mark O's ownership of the property, what they're looking to do is rehab the warehouse and bring in some high quality small business operators with local routes to make contributions to neighbors with investment, improvement of the property and to energize the site. There's the front of the there as you can see. There's no work to be done to the site. Madam Chair, just ten and fit out. The exterior of the buildings will all remain for the most part the same. So hold on, Council. Council. Council hold on. I see. I see that it's a change. Change of occupants from storage distribution and public garage to repair garage. Yes, ma'am. Does that still hold true for 22 to 28? Yes, ma'am. Okay. So the changes it. I know when you look at that use it. It's not the full story. The repair garage is for a detail, a luxury custom car tinting and detail site. And the other one is for a custom high end motorcycle bill. So it's not a standard vehicular repair garage so to speak, but under zoning and falls under those uses. Okay. And then on what which place? Is that supposed to help come in there too? Yes, ma'am. Again, I think that's a little bit of a misnomer. It is a fitness use. It's called one more rep fitness. And that's a high end. The proposed ten and dare is a high end physical personal training facility. It's not a like a vanilla box. You know, big fitness gym is more one-on-one personal training. So again, although it's a health club use under the zoning code as a use category, it's really more of a personal training facility with less than 50 occupants. So it's a small scale gym. And where is parking going to be accommodated for these uses? Yes, ma'am. So parking. There is parking on park to place. Partner park to place is actually on the property. As you can see here, that comes off of Dudley. So there is parking along park to place. There is also parking on both sides of Blue Hill Avenue. But the location itself, you know, it is highly accessible via boxes and commuter rail and the silver line is about a half mile away. So parking would be primarily utilized by employees. There's not a lot of employees at these uses. And then if there was any additional parking needed, the idea would be there would be parking, a handful parking along the Blue Hill Avenue. But these are all, ma'am, chair to your point. These are all low traffic uses. None of these are high traffic, you know, uses. It's a lot of one-in-one of environment only. Okay. And tell us how the repair of the rush, which we understand is auto detailing. How is that going to function? So I see below hell live. Will that all the work will be in the building? Or is that can't tell is that part of the, that must be part of the sidewalk? Well, Marco, are you on? I don't know if you can unmute yourself. The traffic trend is the landlord in the developer area or the property owner. My understanding is all of it will be inside. Marco, you want to find on that? Certainly. We've been working with the community a lot on these issues. And all of the work will be inside existing bay doors. So the doors will, the cars will come in through the existing bay door that is on Blue Hill Avenue. And all of the work will be inside the facade will be refreshed. So they'll see retail storefront there for the garage. All the car work will be inside the garage bank. How are the plans, Mr. Alec? I mean, there's really not that much work to be done. It's mostly fire safety and some kind of cosmetic stuff. So the plans are okay. Okay. Is anybody here, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe Kotman, Joe with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. And the budget meeting was held on October 27, 2020. The project was also embedded by the pastry neighborhood initiative. Our office received no objection to the project. We would like to go on record and support it as a proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair and board of directors. My name is Genevieve Yanami. And I'm here representing President Janie's office. I'd also like to go on record that she is in support of the 2022-28. We will have project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand. Okay. Uh, 4 1603 Benign Awetish? Do you have a question? Hello. Literally my progress on the record look at this. Sorry. My name is Jose Textовой. I'm calling regards to. 139 falling. Wait. And uh.Rock Western. 7 eleven. For cases. May you? Okay, so it sounds like we probably need a review of signage. I can't recall because that intersection is quite crazy whether there are grates in front of the buildings. Any information on that? Marco, yeah, we're making no changes to the to the external facade other than replacing broken glass and some broken doors but there will be changes the paint allows to be refilled. But there's no great. I'm sorry there's no grates. I apologize, no grates, no. Okay, so may I have a motion please? A motion to approve. You can use signage. Second time. Second, all those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Any opposed? Motion carries. I don't share. In the chat, um, show better go. Um, the saying he was having connectivity issues, but was looking to different, um, and William Street. Okay, the more about that. Um, give him a couple minutes to see if he can solve that and we'll go ahead because we do have a couple of agenda items before him. Calling an ex case. Calling an ex case. Calling B O A 1130 252 98 Forbes Street. This is a constructing new mudroom addition. Single story would frame construction to an existing family dwelling. The violation of article 65, section nine, the floating ratio is excessive. Article 65, section nine, the front yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Um, my name is Carol Marsh. I'm in the architect for the project. Address is 29 Lincoln Street Hyde Park. And the building owner is also here today. He's not probably going to have to speak, but that's Greg Aloe. So that was a view of the front of the building. This is the plan. This is a very small addition to create a mudroom entry for the house. So on the left is the existing, um, side of the house that has the a small existing addition, for the existing bathroom. And we'd like to attach an extension to that coming up to almost, up to the front of the house for mudroom as you see on the right. How many square feet? 112 square feet. How are the plans, Mr. Olic? I'm the diminimus. The fine. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madame Chair and members of the board. My name is Lindsay St. Hannah from the Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butters meeting was held on November 14, 2019 for this proposal. The applicant worked with a butters to address some of the concerns. They ever see the support of the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. The Mayor's Office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. Just to make clear from City Council and Madame O'Malley's office, the Council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madame. I want to speak for Marlon Tomman. Are we all muted? Excuse me. I'm Karen Foley, Boston City Council, and Easter was Savvy Jewish's office. I'd like to go on record of this project. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, my name is Arland Dome. I'm here to express my objection to the variance stopped by the owners of 98 board. I can see that you guys have a business session, so I'll try to make myself brief here. We're longtime residents of JP. We've lived at our house since 2008. Our house is oddly positioned because it's one of the oldest in the neighborhood. It sits nearly a full story below and only four feet from the applicant's house. The fact that our house is so close together and at different elevations creates many undesirable conditions at our house. We respect the privacy of light, air, view, and noise. We're very worried that the applicant's proposed plans will make these problems worse. The applicant has a non-conforming undersized lot that's already overbuilt. It offers nearly a 2,000 square feet of living space. Three floors are covered porch and garage. Again, these structures are just feet off the rear property line at the closest point and just over four feet from our house, which lacks rear setbacks. You know, the Zoeyn Coge requires rear setbacks for a reason as they afford important breathing space between homes. The proposed side facing egress and porch would have a view directly into our bedroom. It would set, you know, just 12 feet off the property line, or thereabouts. Someone standing on the porch would have a direct line of sight to our bed, raising significant privacy concerns. And we've no longer feel comfortable opening our blinds and windows for light and air. Purpose to the Zoeyn Coge is intended to protect. And, you know, because of the steepest question. Okay. Okay. So the building next to next to 98 Forbes is out of two family? That neck on Forbes Street. I'm on Wyman Street to be clear. So I'm behind right behind you. I'm asking you you're up the rear, but this is a side addition. Right. So the side addition is going to have a porch like right in front of my bedroom windows. So when they stand on their porch, they're going to look right into my bed. Would it be possible for us to take a look at the site plan? So, so, so, um, yeah. So it looks like the addition is, um, um, um, um, um, all marsh, um, can you, can you just, um, talk us through this? Because, um, I need a, um, and, um, collect, can you kind of zoom in so we can, it looks to me like, um, let's just see. Okay. So that's Forbes Street. Where is Wyman? Wyman is directly behind. So, uh, the, okay, so I'm, so I'm looking at this and it looks like the proposed one story edition is just essentially squaring off the building. That's correct. Okay. And so the bathroom that's currently there, uh, stays where it is and it's proposed one story. Mudroom edition, um, is squaring off the building. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else to speak on this project? In support. Okay. I have one letter of support. Okay. Thank you. Any, any other raised hands? Okay. Okay. Okay. And I see. Let's see a hand raised by James Green. Hi, James. You've been unmuted. Are you looking to speak on this proposal? Okay. Hi, James Green. We've been unmuted. Okay. Don't hear anything. Any of those callers, all of them have raised hands. There are two who are calling for different projects that I'm aware of. Um, just sexy. Okay. So given that information, may I have the motion please? Uh, motion to approve. Uh, V. K. D. A. Designer view. Second. All those in favor. Are you designing with your own? Mr. or like, well, I mean, it is an exterior. So. Okay. Um, uh, there's a second. All those in favor. Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Yes. Following your next case, calling B. O. A. 109 for 620 139 Dalton Street. This is to add the least space to the first floor by extending space into the basement area and adding two bedrooms about a family room. The violations article 5629, the fluid air ratio is excessive. Name and address for the right. Uh, I'll say you've done a muted. Happy new. Hello, my name is Jose Flora. I'm calling for 139, 30, 40, 11. Tell us what you're proposing, please. I'm sorry. Say that one more time. Tell us what you're proposing. Our proposed work is to add living space in the basement and connect to the first floor. Okay. So how many of them are in this building building? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm missing an echo. It's a three family building. Are we asking me? Okay. It's a three family building building. And you're looks like you've already started. You're in the basement. I'm so sorry, ma'am. I get an echo. Consec, you mute. I'm back there. Put. Who needs to unmute? We're going to really back up in a short way. Jessica, I think it might be the applicant. You might have two things open. You might. Okay. Yeah. Jose, are you do you have two things open right now? I was. I was trying to get on the web. I close it up. It's just a phone line. But I clearly. Okay. Yeah. So you're using me when you're under here. We both talking together. It's echo. I picked a log off of the website. If you're calling for that phone. I'm calling. Yeah. I called because I couldn't get on the website because I'm nowhere near computer. Okay. So you're just on one line right now? It's. Yes, ma'am. I am sorry. I don't know where. Can you have can you mute Karen, please Karen Foley? Okay. Let's give it a shot. Okay. Jose, try it. Speaking. So is it. We have your name and address. That's what you're proposing to do. All right. So I'm calling for 139 board. One. Sorry. 139th Orange Street, Bordy Love and proposed work is to add living space in the basement to the first floor. Okay. And what's the flow to ceiling right in the basement? It's it's seven feet. It's seven feet. Pardon. It's seven feet. And tell us about the distance from the floor to the cell of the windows of the lowest window. I want to say about the answer to I want to say like about you said from the seal to the floor right from like if I if I needed to climb out the window. What we're going to think is what there's proposed window well to be done in windows will be actually extended there right now. Right now we have like about three feet. Okay. And then the utility room separate. Yes, ma'am. There will be separate. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Ola? I'm sorry. Say that one more time. Please stay on hold. I missed. I have a question for Mr. Ola. The drawing showed that it's seven foot six in the basement, which is what's required by code. If it's seven feet as the applicant said that would be a problem. So I'm going by the drawings assuming they are correct. To the applicant art and and and and much more of the basement is above great. So it's not one of these typical but they're very small and a little eyebrow windows. Are you putting in new windows or just window wells? We're going to put in new windows. We're going to accommodate them to to be fire acts is ready. You know that in case of any embudancies we're going to accommodate them that you will have new windows and you would have window wells. So you'd be able to have access. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I mean the drawing show bigger windows on the side elevations show bigger windows than what the existing conditions show. So you know, it's not wonderful but it's much better than many of the proposals that have come before us. And it means code. So I guess they're okay. So what's happening in the side yard is the side yard your property or somebody else's property. The side yard is the homeowner's property and it has plenty of parking. It's a separate lot. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Talk to the plans are adequate. Mr. Olic. Yeah. Oh yeah. You know what? I was a little confused on location. Now I know where I am. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe Coppan, Chair from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and a buddies meeting was held on October 8th, 2020. The project is also vetted by the Highland Park Neighborhood Coalition. The proposal received positive feedback. The neighbors who appreciate the fact that not change the footprint of the home. The next record in support of this project. Thank you. Okay. So Karen. You all said Madam Chair, there are two other raised hands but it appears here for projects. Is there anybody? I'm not. I don't remember. It's Genevieve from Councillor Janice Office. She's still on the line. I'm here. Are you going to offer an opinion on this project? No, not at this moment. Okay. Are you going to pass? Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion? Please. Yeah. Madam Chair, just to, well, I, whatever concerns you have, these, the image that we're looking at, if you scroll down a little bit at Shell Sections. Yeah. Okay. You can see it. It's something for six Florida ceiling and it's 44 inches to the bottom of the window. So it's okay. So I'm going to make a motion for approval. Do you want me to have a look at those? I mean, they're pretty straightforward. This is all on scary work. Okay. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Ligris. All those in favor? Any opposed? Okay. Miss Ambassador. Miss Defetterico got online. Check. He's still here. Loha, let me unmute you. Miss Defetterico? Yes, I am. Are you deferring? I am deferring. Okay. I'm going to call into the record. Then I'll ask for your identity. The next two cases calling, B-O-A-1-1-3-1-6-4-4-1-97-William Street, companion case B-O-A-1-1-1-6-7-1-5-99-William Street. Name an address for the record, please. I, for the record, this is Joe Federico, address 70, Porter Street, Westwood, Massachusetts. And you're requesting a deferral on this? Yes, I am, man. I am requesting a deferral. Okay, man. Have a motion, please. I can drop that. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, we have a day. Box 30. Yes. 12, 30. Madam Chair, we need to find out who the echo is coming from. I'm going to be very, very first. It's very disturbing. Looking down and I just see the boy members who were muted. Let's show it. I'm going to be very first. Host, can you mute for a minute, please? I was muted. Okay, you were. Okay. So I, uh, cannot go ahead, Jessica. What are you? No, I don't hear it. I don't hear an echo now that this. I don't need to. That's going to. All right, I'm going to go to the next case. Calling B 0 8. 112 9263 116 Alexander Street. Let's direct a new three story to family dwelling, proposed to you out street parking. The violations article 10 section one, street parking. So I'll be located on the side lot line less than five feet. Article 50 section 29. A lot of areas in sufficient. Article 50 section 29. A lot withers in sufficient. Article 50 section 29. A lot frontages in sufficient. Article 50 section 29. The fluid air ratio was excessive. Article 50 section 29. Use of open spaces in sufficient. Article 50 section 29. Front yards in sufficient. Article 50 section 29. Side yards in sufficient. And Article 50 section 29. The way yard is in sufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm with the board of 20th and 20th and 20th. Small. This is best. One of the tools and natural Massachusetts. Also, I think Eric Jackson is the architect. The unit matter. We're here today seeking relief to erect a two family dwelling. Two parking spaces on a basement lot. Don't need some district. We have 4,000 and our lots lives is 2,000. Madam Chair, do you want Eric to go through the site plan and key role bless? So this is a this is a two family dwelling. Was this project before this address before this board in the past? Derek. Not that I'm aware of that. Okay, and this is this is a vacant lot then. That is correct. Okay. Okay. Okay. So either one of you can go through this. I think the lot frontage, the lot that all makes sense. Can you describe to us what this building might look like? I collect. Can you just. Oh, so that we can see the street view. And is there any basement living? There's no basement on the building. Okay. And so is it and it does it imitate the building form of the buildings around it? The to the right of the property is large swath of the MTA property. And to the left of the property, there's a single two and a half story building and then a couple of empty lots. Okay. Okay. I can see now. How will the parking work? There are two parking spaces at the rear of the property and a portion of the building hangs out of a report of the part of the property. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Sorry. I forgot I muted myself. I was planning to plan to add a quick question. Okay. Any questions from the board? No. No. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe Coppin, Joe with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And a butters meeting was held on October 29th, 2020. And the project was also vetted by the Dudley Street neighborhood initiative. Residents who joined the meeting had no objection to the project and would like to go on and record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. I'm chair. Everyone else is going to speak there and no other raised hands for this proposal. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I just do through a VGA design review. Second job. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board. Following an ex-case, calling B-O-A-1070492, 17 to 19 places abroad. This is a change of arc from a two family to all into a three family dwelling. The violation of Article 65 Section 41, on the street parking and loading. Article 65 Section 8, the use of regulations to the three families is to be in. Article 65 Section 8.2, regulation is to unbasement units. Article 65 Section 9, the play of the financial success of the name of the bill. Yes, for the record, please. Good afternoon. Again, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nick Zuzula, McDermott, Coltty and Miller. 28th State Street in Boston with me today is Tom McGlosski, who's the property owner. And also the architect on the project. You can see the existing house here now. 17 to 19 place. It's a large lot of about 60 700 square feet. It's in Columbia, 7th Hill neighborhood of Dorchester, just off of 7th Hill Ave. What you see before you now with the exterior, it is an existing two family building. You can see the two doors there at the front. And each of these two family units has four bedrooms. So each of these is a very large four bedroom unit for eight total bedrooms. And what we're proposing is to just reconfigure the interior, existing space of this two family to turn it into a three family and add one bedroom. So instead of two four bedroom units, we'd be proposing a three bedroom unit, a two bedroom unit, and then one of the four bedroom units on the top floor would remain as a four bedroom. There is no expansion to the existing building envelope, minimal exterior changes as you'll see in the plans just to add a door to the left of these two doors to the new unit and something to just some changes on the left hand side for an additional door as well to the unit. So tell us about the basement. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height in the basement and give us those information. Absolutely. And if Collette or whoever could go down to slide nine on our presentation, we have a section in anticipation of this question. Here's one. And then if you go to the next slide, you'll see an actual section. The floor to ceiling height, the next slide, Collette, if you could, I believe. Nine. The floor, here you go, right here, perfect. The floor to ceiling height is seven feet six inches. The windows are approximately three feet six inches from the ground. So they are lower. This would be a full window. And you've can see on the right hand side, Madam Chair, knowing Mr. Rillick would have questions about this. We did provide some mockups of what kind of like dug out further window wells as well. There are window wells. There are windows, excuse me, existing on the left hand side of the building where some of the basement living space would be located. And actually there's a great change from the front of the site to the rear of the site and from the left of the site to the right of the site, it actually will allow for doorway entry into the lower level directly, as well as substantial light air acceptability that the issues that we know are prevalent with this type of expansion to the base. And the utilities. The utilities would remain where they are, I believe, if they would be separate, they would be separately blocked off from this, from this living space in the basement. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that this is a duplex. So the entire unit's not in the basement. There is living space on the first floor. That would be part of the unit as well. So then what's going to be going to see proposed expansion to the basement on the other side? I don't believe there's any room for that based on utilities in the way that the data is made out. You can see here that we'd be utilizing most of it already. Okay. There would be any proposed expansion to the other side of the, of any, there's no place for it. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Oloc? Madam Chair, we are finally getting our applicants, our trends, our applicants, these drawings to answer all the questions that we normally have. The drawings are adequate. It also like to train our attorneys. Please, Nick, to talk to applicants that were not thrilled about this continued expansion into the basement. Okay. There are expert books, but it's just not. Madam Chair, okay. We're having no discussions. We've heard you loud and clear as you can see from these plans. We anticipated the questions and tried to provide adequate plans to show you what we were trying to do. But we understand. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? I'll wrap up from Councillor Frank Baker's office. Go ahead, Joe. Madam Chair, may I speak to some of the support that may not be come forward? No, I just, I still want to hear from, from everybody else. We'll get back to you. Yes, ma'am. Good morning, Madam Chair. You have the new Madam Chair. I know that you're looking for support at the moment. We're in opposition. So would you like me to wait? Yes, but I had to tell us what the opposition is based on. So there is some support for this project, Madam Chair, but I feel the history of the applicant and with the neighbors, they just feel like he wasn't a good neighbor to the de-bars and therefore we are in opposition to the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Pat Finn, no mayor's office and neighbor at service, as we'd like to also go on record and opposition of this proposal. There was an abouters meeting held on site and the applicant did meet multiple times with neighbors in the civic association and he received her support from them. To the councillors point, there are some ongoing concerns with the bedroom count and operational concerns of the tenants. However, he did receive support from other folks in the neighbors and neighborhood. Connection issue. Madam Chair, secretary, here. Can you hear me? Yes. Madam Chair, we have one letter of support and one letter of opposition. The opposition is basically what Mr. McGeck when you said. Okay. Madam Chair, I have two raised hands. Okay, let's hear from the Charles. Yes, I have Charles Monroe, my Patutino Martin is here with me. We're director butters at 15 place, Ted Road. And we are, we gathered 14 signatures on a petition opposing this proposal from seven households directly on place, Ted Road. The some comments. Can you tell us what the opposition is based on? Yes, I can read you this petition. The opposition is based on two factors on density and operations. The density is that they're in this two family when they're early A-Bid, they're currently nine young adults. There have been, there were incessant parties throughout the warm months. Friday nights, Saturday nights sometimes both. There's open drinking. That's a ref or smoking, teaking torches on the back porch. Our tenants downstairs complained about the fact that their house wreaked of marijuana smoke. Football games, they went off the front deck onto the road. It was basically a dormitory party house and quite not in keeping with our founding residential neighborhood. Thank you. And what's, is there a second? First was density, second is operations, anything else? Okay, may I hear your next report? Okay, the next caller. 7 6 4 0. Madam Chairman, the board, Paul Sullivan, for City Council, that's Michael Flarey, the council is going to go on record in opposition. Thank you. Okay, given that, and you said you had some in support, some letters in support. Yes, ma'am, if I may just very quickly, I know you have a long agenda. We did get, we did get both the support from the Columbia, Southern, Hill, Civic Association, both their planning committee and their general membership voted in support of this project. We also do have a directive on the other side of the property. Mr. Monroe, is on the right side of the property. We have the butter and support on the left side of the property. We also have about 20 letters to support from some other folks. Can I just respond to the density question? Very briefly, just because it's germane to your vote. The density issue, this is, we're not expanding the building and we're adding one bedroom. The density has a three family, although it's a two-f zone, it does back up to a three-family zone, and there are at least three three families on playset, including nine, 12, and 28, as well as some three families on Danny and on seven-hill-ass. So the density issue, to me, is we're not expanding the building of local adding one bedroom. So the place I'm coming from, Nick, is that this is a beautiful house, it has potential. But if, you know, if as a performance is, will likely be an indicator of future performance, and if tenants are cloudy and not respectful of the neighborhood, then we do have an issue here. So given that, if they should may I have a motion, please? Yeah, I'm like, I'm going to make a motion for denial. I mean, there's nothing wrong with the plugins and the proposal for the issue density, but I can't see rewarding a landlord for a pick-up here. So I'm going to make a motion for the denial. I'll second it. Is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, does that have denial without prejudice? Just so I want to be clear on the record, or was it a straight denial, Madam Chair? I'm here. I'm going to move to my motion with the first straight denial. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, I just want to go back to Alexandria Street, 116. I've had two letters of support on that project, so I just want to make sure you get a clarification. Okay, got it. And then call the next, Kenya's calling, BOA105, 3701, 1463 to 1467, Dorchester, Avenue. This has built a new five-story building with ground floor, retail and opera space. Ground floor apartment and 20, 28 apartments on floors two to five, no parking. Variations at equal 65, section 41. Off street loading is insufficient. At equal 65, section 42.3. Traffic visibility across the corner. 65, section 15. The residential unit on the first floor is forbidden use. At equal 65, section 16, the floor area ratio is accepted. At equal 65, section 16, high requirement is excessive. At equal 65, section 16, the rail yet is insufficient. At equal 65, section 41, off street parking requirement is insufficient. Madam, an address for the record, please. Jacob Taylor, I'm with Kleinhoorning, LLP, 101 Arch Street in Boston, and I'm joined by Travis Lee and Hannah Boock. And John Boock from Place Taylor Architects. To tell us what's being proposed. So we are proposing a five-story, actually 29-unit workforce housing development with 1,300 square feet of retail space on the ground floor. And this is a site, it's a small block located in fields corner directly adjacent to the fields corner of T-station. And the program here has been developed in accordance with the city's compact living pilot program and the guidelines associated with that program. And the project is proposed to contain 21 studio units, eight one bed and eight one bedrooms. And as indicated, we're not proposing any off street parking, a small site ideal for transit oriented development. And we're also proposing secure bike storage and possibly a blue bike station. So how large are the studios? What's the average size for the studios? Good evening, Madam Chair. This is Travis Lee. I'm the proposed, I'm the developer of the project. The studios are about 400 square feet and the one bedrooms are up to 450 square feet. This project does fall within the city of Boston's compact living program that has built a policy around smaller units. And if it's okay with you, I'd love to give a very short presentation. Yes, keep it brief. Just give us as you've been up for, tell us what you're proposing to do. Yes, Madam, if the person flies to go back to the second page very briefly, that would be fantastic. As Jacob Taylor just said, the project does include 21 studio units at approximately 400 square feet, each eight one bedroom units, approximately 450 square feet each. Four of the 29 apartments will be IDP units required by the city of Boston and restricted at 70% of the area's median income to those households. The other 25 units, yes, Madam. Go ahead, sorry. The other 25 units will be restricted at two households earning at or below 90% of Boston's area median income to align with financing that the project is using at mass housing. The project, as mentioned, is directly abutting the field corner train station has onsite bike storage and a partnership with the Blue Bike Program to provide shared bikes to the community onsite. The amenities include some outdoor community space, indoor community space, laundry on each floor, and an elevator in the building, the ground floor to be contextual as 1300 square-to-retail space that fronts door chest through Avenue. This building is- So, Travis, where is that outside space? Can we have a look at what that looks like? Yes, Madam, if we can go to the next slide, one more slide please. Slide please. One more slide please. And I think it's the next slide. So, this is the ground floor of the building. You can see the yellow is indoor shared space for the tenants of the building and the gray space to the left is outdoor patio space that would be accessible to the tenants of the building. The far right retail space front door chest through Avenue and would be occupied by a neighborhood business. The slides before this page show the contextuality of the proposed project and the neighborhood as you can tell directly across the street if you were to scroll up one slide please. Two slides please. Right. Here, these buildings are directly across the street. We have 100-year-old four-story buildings that are 45 feet tall. We have newer four-story buildings that are directly across the street. This building is contextual in massing we believe it's contextual on size and it is offering very much needed moderate income housing to the community of Boston and Dorchester. We have had three meetings with civic association in fields corner and have received a letter of support from them for the project. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Olic? Well, these are small units. These are consistent with the city's conflict with the guidelines as I was suggested. The amount of comments faces are relatively limited and I would in my understanding four of 29 units, Mr. Lee, are affordable? Is that correct? Yes, 70% and the rest at 90%. Right. But that's the four. I mean, that's the absolute minimum to comply with the city's guidelines, right? Yes, sir. However, for the next 15 years, all of the units will be restricted to a particular income level and as incomes in Boston increase, the rents of the project cannot and will not increase in association with market rent. So while 90% of Boston's area median income now is, you know, $1900 for say a one bedroom unit, that that rent rate will remain flat as incomes rise. So it will become more affordable as time goes off. So is the goal then to help with both creation? Well, there is a community investment program that we are not allowed to speak about publicly because of SEC guidelines where we will be inviting community members to own a piece of the project, but I'm not allowed by law to talk about that publicly. There's a elevator in this building, right? Yes, sir. So the the headhouse on the on the elevations, I assume, is the elevator. That house, correct? Okay, so I'm sorry. You said you were not allowed to discuss some SEC plans, but there is a strategy to help with wealth creation. We've been working with the community for six months on a on a plan that I would be happy to talk with you about offline that does provide economic development and wealth creation opportunities, particularly for people living in 0212, 0212, 4. It's not something that the SEC allows public advertising up in advance. Okay. Let me see what else I need to ask you. Jeff, one question for you. I know that these microunits were supposed to be a two-year pilot. Have they been now memorialized? Well, no, actually, Madam Chair, I had emailed Kevin earlier. Our board at our last meeting has extended the pilot program for two years, and we're trying to set up actually a meeting in a presentation with the board, the BTD, BRA, D&D, top dates, the board members on the extension and just to give you a refresher of it. And Madam Chair, any questions from the board? Any questions from the board? Yeah. I got a, I got a, I got a, it's Joe. It's Joe. So the one bedrooms are on the one bedrooms. The studios are approximately 400 square feet and the one bedroom's range range, but they're around 450 square feet. Okay, and they'll be, and those would be 1900 a month at 90% AMI. So the rent range is $1,000 a month to about $1850 or $1900 a month, and it depends which unit, but the range is from $1,000 to $1900. I, and there's no parking proposed. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, this is George Wynn with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. A thorough cleaning process was conducted by Mr Lee alongside the BDA from February through October 2020. The applicant took into account neighborhood context, including the surrounding architecture and their design, the product located next to his corner T and would greatly benefit singles couples and small families who do rely on public transit. In addition, they'll provide a sufficient amount of photo units and amenities, and with strong support from the fields corners of civic association and the community, the mayor's office would like to go on record and support other proposals at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have one letter of support and one letter of opposition. Okay. Any further move, Henry? Okay. Madam Chair, did you hand me, I'm sorry, Secretary? Yes. Thank you. Yes, thank you. We have some audio problems, if it's on reason. Yes, okay. Mr. Ambassador, is there anybody else to speak? Okay. Yeah, I just heard my narrow, were you looking to speak? If not, I'll call the caller. Thank you. Some audio issues. All are 201. I can hear us. But after no madam, share my number with the car intersuting. I want to go on record and support all this project. Thank you. In caller 617201, I have a new to you. They may be having issues with the audio, so we should be all set. So give that information. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to motion to approve a big idea inside of you. All second, Ligris. Those in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Aye. Are you opposed, Joe? I'm opposed, Joe. Yep. Okay. Motion carries. Travis, if you could email me your contact information, that would be great. That sounds fine. Thank you. Calling an ex-case, calling BLA108-715719-33 Ashland Street. Is there a recommendation to you and into dwelling? The violation of that, Michael 65, section 41, Austria-Packe, and Loing, Article 65, section 8. The use is forbidden. Article 65, section 9, excessive FAR. Article 65, section 9. The number of a lot of stories has been exceeded. Article 65, section 9, insufficient front and yard setback. Model setback and street wall continue. And Article 65, section 9, insufficient, ready to add setback. Name and address, further record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Our click out 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the applicant owner of the property, Raymond Bogos. It also with us on the meeting is Alita from the architectural firm who prepared the plans. This is a proposal to raise the existing structure on a 15,500 square foot lot and to construct eight new townhouse-style, family-style units. Each of the units will be three bedrooms and have an enclosed parking garage contained a ground floor of each unit. The unit sizes are approximately 1,667 square feet. And the gross living area of the entire structure is 13,336 square feet on the left size of 15,457, which gives us an FAR of 0.8. There are 10 parking spaces provided, which satisfies the parking requirement of 1.25 per dwelling unit. We've conducted a further extensive review process, especially with our direct and immediate of fighters behind the property on Elm's feet. There are three new proposals and projects that are under construction that have been approved by this board of nine units at one in three and five units on seven line Elm. Significantly, we believe that the townhouse-style proposal is responsive to the desire to have larger family-style units. There is a good amount of open space on the property proposal. The buildings will cover 35% of the lot area, leaving rooms for patio, the driveway area, and other open space. Are there any, there are no roof tax proposals. Can you show us how the parking, you know, tell us to which sheet we should go to to see the parking plan? There it is. I mean, I don't understand it. I mean, is it in the rear of the building? Where is it? If Alita could chime in with the architect and explain the parking, many of the parking garages front on Auslan Street, and then there's a driveway shown on the site plan along the side of the building that pulls around to the back of the building and some of the units have parking at the rear. So, a couple of garage doors on the front, which were designed to take into account the context of the neighborhood, sort of barn style garage doors. Here's the site plan. A couple of the parking instances are in the front on Auslan. So does it look, it looks to me like there are four garage doors on Auslan? Exactly. Madam Chair. There's a lot of garage doors. There's two double garage doors in the front. There are one, two, three, four, five, six, seven double garage doors on the left side, and one, a double garage door in the rear. A lot of garage doors. There are two in the front on Auslan, two on the side, and the balance there in the back. I just looked at the site plan. Yeah, we'll look at the elevations. Yeah. Can we go to that slide please? Okay, so there's two double doors there. Keep going. Those are single. Those are two separate doors, one for each unit there, and that's a single. Okay, so there's two there. Okay, so two say look, go to that one. And while we're here, what's the width of that driveway? About there. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and those are on the left side. Yeah, and then there's another on the rear. And there's the left a butter. The left a butter is 29 mill street, and we have letters of support from the four to our owners of a two family at 29 mill street. And we've worked very closely with them because they have a really large portion of their lot. And discussions with them to grant them an easement along the driveway on the side of 19 Ashland. The better to take access to their rear yard, which is used for recreational purposes. And then way in the back behind MBTA red line tracks. Red line way in the back. So ask everybody to be muted, but cast we're having a hard time hearing. Thank you. Go ahead. I was just explaining the rear yard condition. So along the side of 19 Ashland where these garage doors are in the back, there's a large rear lot area for 29 mill street that they use for recreational purposes. And we've got letters of support from them. And our in discussions with them about granting an easement across our new driveway to give them better access to their rear yard, which they use for recreational purposes. And then way at the back, behind the two lots is the MBTA red line tracks. And behind that are the two properties on one and three Elm street, which are currently under construction five in four units. And we have letters of support from that property owner as well. In addition, we have. So stop right there. No roof decks. Did you look at any other options on the garage scene so that it's not so over represented on one side of the building? Well, these garages that you're seeing on this elevation are are not really in view. And the desire was to get the cars, you know, inside and tucked away out of view rather than have a large surface parking area. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick Van L. Mayor's office neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support this proposal. As the applicant noted, this has gone through a significant community process, including multiple unofficial butters meetings with their neighbors over the course of 2020 and I believe late 2019, as well as an official community process through the mayor's office. They've also reached out to the Clamp Point Civic Association and Ben and talks with them. They've worked extensively with neighbors on the parking situation, accommodating green space on site and the design concerns and have come to support all of the direct abouters except one supports this proposal. I would like to note that there is one abouter who opposes this, but generally speaking, they've worked well with their neighbors and this is a good proposal. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, if I could, can I ask the applicant? Is this project going for landmarks? Yes. Mr. Arleike, yes. There are two component parts to that. One is that under Article 65, Section 32, this property is in a neighborhood design overlay district, which requires BPDA design review similar to the design component of Article 80 Small Project Review. If this board were to approve it and make a profile for a design review, it would be under the rubric of the neighborhood design overlay district, Point 1.2, because we're raising the existing structure, we have an Article 85 demolition delay application pending with the Boston Landmarks Commission since September of 2020 and the architects have been working closely with Landmarks Commission staff on alternatives to demolition and we have not yet had that hearing, but we expect that hearing to occur sometime in the near future. So is this the park before the horse? No, we actually are required to have zoning relief before we have consideration by landmarks. Madam Chair, if I could, I'd devote what to ask the applicant? What is the current use of the building? It's currently a multi-unit residential building. Okay, so let's hold on for a minute. Okay, was there any other testimony that we needed to hear? Either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, secretary here, we have three letters of opposition. Okay, Madam Chair, no raised heads at the moment. And Mr. Fortune, we emailed a package to Stephanie Haynes with 11 letters of support and a map depicting where the letters came from, the direct debuts. So have we heard from the district city councilor? I know we heard from, did we hear from the district city councilor on this? I believe the district councilor's office is remaining neutral in this case. Madam Chair, can I ask one more question on this landmark issue? Is Mr. Locasse? Is it so one of the options that they might consider is to that you have to leave the building as is and consider it architectural landmark, correct in which case, although this would be beside the point? No, the pending Article 85 application is demolition delay, which does require an owner property to engage in exploration of alternatives to demolition. However, at the conclusion of the 90-day delay period, the applicant is then free to proceed recognition of the structure. And when was the 90-day? The 90-day clock has not commenced because we have not yet had our hearing. The landmarks commission will require that the Office of Neighborhood Services sponsor a separate meeting on that issue. And then following the hearing at Boston landmarks commission, the 90-day demolition delay period would then commence. I'm wondering if we suggest a further case. Yeah. Because, um, you know, if there is architectural integrity in the current building, and then we see something like this, so let's, let's, let's defer this case, please. Well, make a more agree. I'll make a motion for deferral. Is there a second? I'll second that, Ed Debo. Thank you all those in favor. Any opposed? The date, please? We have a date of March 30th at 1230. On that point, Madam Chair, if the deferral is based upon the pendency of the landmarks commission, shall I report back to Mr. Fortune when we've completed our process and then schedule a date? So you don't, so, um, Madam Chair? Yeah. Hi, this is Jeff Anthony from the BRA. I know that this property is up before the landmarks commission tonight for a public hearing for to possibly further and establishing as an architectural conservation district. So this is completely separate from the article 85 or 86. I'm sorry. 85. So, um, it might be worth to put it off or at least find out what the landmarks commission does tonight. So can we move this perhaps, Mr., Mr. Fortune to May? We can do whatever you'd like. That's because we have right now. Give us a date in May sometime. We can do May 4th at 1230. Okay. See you then. Thank you. Calling your next case. Calling B.O.A. 11303486 Bloomfield Street. This is to confirm our committee is a one-family dwelling and change our to become a three-family dwelling. The Biological 65 Section 41, Archie Parking's insufficient. Article 65 Section 8 used to the three-family dwelling as for an article 65 Section 9, the fluidity ratio is excessive. Name an adriol filler marketplace. Good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is Andrew Litchfield. And just 22 alpha road and do a chestermet. So, Jacob. Tell us what's being proposed, please. So we are currently proposing a keeping the existing building as is currently a single family in preventing it to a three-family. In adding dormers on the third floor to create additional living space and a different living space in the basement. The first unit will be a bi-level unit, first floor in basement. Second floor will be a two-bedroom, two-bedroom, and third floor will be another two-bedroom, two-bedroom. Well, three-off street parking spots. The existing facade will be restoring. And it'll be a full renovation on the inside. Okay. Certain fairly nice building. So this is and tell us the unit sizes of each floor? Yes. So if you go to the next slide, this is the current layout. When we purchased it about a year and a half ago, it was used as a boarding house. Although it was zoned as a single family. The unit sizes will be 1500 square feet for unit one, which is their bi-level unit. Unit two will be around 880 square feet. And unit three will be about 810 square feet. Okay. And then tell us how parking is supposed to work? So if you go, I think further up with site plan is, there will be a visit the current driveway. And there will be one spot right in the front. And then two spots on the left hand side of the building with some green space. I'm sorry. So if I'm looking at the building, one spot on the right and two on the left. Yeah. So one spot all the way to the back right. So all parking will be in the rear of the property. Okay. And then going back to the basement, what's the floor to ceiling height there? I believe it's 7.6. It's currently, it was currently finished. And is the utility rooms proposed to be separate? Yes. So the utilities will be in each unit. We will be adding window walls. There will be two bedrooms in this unit, sorry, in the basement. And as well, there's a full walkout. It's not a bulkhead. There's a full size donor going out the back. That's the living space in the back of the basement. And it looks like the dormers that you're proposing must be full donors? Yes. They're full, full donors on both sides. So an essence, another floor. Well, currently, we will be adding square footage. Square footage will be added up there. Okay. How are the plans from St. Ollock? Well, you know, same problem. If you look at A32, which is slide number 10, the last one, the proposed section, it shows that the floor of the basement is six feet below grade. So you're going to have eyebrow windows, you know, maybe you'll have window walls, but it's once again an attempt to really have underground living space. Okay. And how do the dormers look? You know, I mean, it's a little hard to tell from an elevation as opposed to rendering. It looks like a nice facade and they look a little awkward to be honest with you, but that's that's hard, that's hard to say. Okay. And that's the, they don't seem like they flow with the lines of the house. Okay. And let's look at the parking. Can what, what page is the parking on? It's on page two or three. Okay. So rear yard parking. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and supportive this proposal? Greetings, Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. My name is Shantal Limabarboza with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And the butter's meeting was held for this proposal on August 17 of 2020 and the applicant received support from the Director butters. That being said, the mayor's office would like to go on record and support the proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have seven letters of support. We have two letters of opposition. The opposition is changing from a one-fail me to a three-fail me. Madam Ambassador, raise the answer. No, ma'am. Okay. So, the board, this is a Dustin Gardner on behalf of City Councilor Andrea Campbell's office. We like to go on record and opposition. I merely stand with the Bloomfield Park Neighborhood Association who really was hoping to see some affordability in these units, which I know are going to be at market rate and they were requesting some affordability just in requests for the variances that are available. So, I'd like to record an abstinence. Okay. Thank you, Dustin. Okay. So, Madam Chair, if I may, the letters of support that we received are indirect apologies. Justice Street, right next door. No, hold on. Thank you. Thank you. Can I have everybody muted, please? So, you know, we've seen a number of basement units being proposed today and this one seems the most basement of what we've seen. Some Mr. Olic, since you are the keeper of the plans, it appears that it might just be us just denying that living space in the basement, ensuring that there is no proposed living space in the basement, allowing the change of occupancy from one to three and allowing the dormers. So, the units will be a little bit smaller because unit one was proposed. So, each unit would essentially be in the 800 square foot range, which might get us to where we are, what we're thinking about, especially on this project. Well, I'm wondering, you know, this is going from a single two or three, which is a pretty, that's been tripling the use with, I'm wondering whether maybe they ought to consider doing a two family instead. So, we would, because I think there's possible, it's possible to make, because this is a request, because the three family use is a forbidden use, so we can clearly deny that and also deny the extension into the basement. I mean, one other possibly, I mean, one other possibly, I mean, I'm sure, or be simply deny, deny the whole application without prejudice and let them redesign it in a way that is more in keeping the living room looking for. Okay, let's do that. Okay, I'm going to make motion to deny what I'm saying. Okay, I'm going to do it with prejudice. Sarah, second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Hi. Air post, motion carries. Andrew, were you the applicant? You said so when you come back, we're anticipating something quite different. Thank you. Yep, just, man, just quick question on that. So, is this, oh, how soon are we able to come back? Is this a year process? I pick up the conversation with the staff so we can go on with our agenda. Okay, thank you. Madam Chair, it's almost two o'clock and I neglected to call the 12.31 o'clock to prison with trials and we're probably going to be held at 4.35 o'clock for the ring we're going. So, I'm going to call 12.30s if there's any to throws or withdrawals for 12.30 only and then I'll call 1 o'clock right after I hear from the 12.30s. Is there anybody deferring at 12.30 or withdrawing for 12.30? Madam, I'm about to raise hands. I'm not seeing you raise hands. Okay, so I'm going to call 1 o'clock. If they need to forals or withdrawals for 1 o'clock. Yes, 30 dash 36 battery mark street, please. Well, the record. The record calling BOA on 03817830 to 36 battery mark. Name an address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Jeff Trago with Drago in just town of business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking a deferral from the board. This would be our first referral together with the next grade. We did get some concerns from some neighbors that had come in late and then speaking with the mayor's office, they had asked if we could take the referral. I think we can wrap it up. Okay, ma'am, I'm a lot of please. I should do it for. Second. Any opposed to date, please? Have a date of March 30 at the 12.30. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1 o'clock? Mr. Fortune, 229 dash 231 on green street, please. Calling BOA 1048 915 229 to 231. Bucky Hill Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I'm appearing on behalf of my colleague attorney Patrick Mahoney, who could not attend this meeting today to request this deferral. Madam Chair, members, this is a third deferral request. I spoke with the attorney Mahoney yesterday. He advised me that they were prepared to go forward today with revised plans. However, because the plans eliminated a dwelling unit and then eliminated ground floor parking in favor of commercial space, which the community wanted. The mayor's office of neighborhood services has to turn Mahoney to do one more butter's meeting, which I'm advised to schedule for later this month. May I have motion, please? Motion to refer. Is there a second? No, it's a Traver. Any opposed? The date, please? We have a date of March 30th at 1230. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1 o'clock? No, he has raised. We're going to call the next case. Going to be for a 1-1-3-1-478-19-Tory Street. This is a new three-story family dwelling proposed tri-austry parking. The violation of Article 65, Section 9, a lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, a lot of width is insufficient. posture, Article 65, Section 9 of the bill and how is the assessment of stories. Article 65, Section 9 of the front yard, then sufficient. Article 65, Section 9 of the side yard, then sufficient. And Article 65, Section 9 of the rear yard, is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. DeBoard. This is Andrew Lynchfield, 22 alpha room. Go check. I have with me, architect Eric. So tell us what's being proposed. So we're proposing here a three story new construction building on a vacant lot. There will be three parking spots in the rear of the building. The units will be a two bedroom, three bedroom and a three bedroom. What's the zoning district and what's the lot area for this for this address? The zoning analysis is in a three of five thousand zone. It's currently as an OSG. The lot size is currently 3,013 square feet. I'm sorry. What is OSG? Is it is part of it and then OSG? Yes, it is. Jeff, is that that's an open space designation? Yes, Madam Chair, it is one of the problems when we have these. I think it was the Torrey Street garden when it was originally done. He's back in 2002. I think when we zone, zone door trust, when these parcels get sold off, and we aren't made aware of the new owner or the intention. Now we're behind the sticks to sort of speak in terms of what the zoning is, but our policy would be to rezone it with the abutting property, which in this case would be the three family. I mean, technically it's zone open space for a local garden. Yeah, community garden. Okay. Okay, so what's the honey? If I may, on the left side of the property, the abutting lot is a property owned by the D&D. We've been talking with Donald over there, seeing how we can work with the city on creating the open space on that corner lot, when we had our boatage meetings that was kind of the consensus between the neighborhood and what they wanted to see. Okay, so just please tell us now let me understand this. It's a three of five thousand zoning district. Tell us what's go through the violations and tell us what the layout is. Can we see the ring plates colored? Is there any basement occupancy in this building? There is not. Okay. So you said there are two bedrooms, three bedrooms. What are the, what's the square footage for the two bedrooms? One second, please. The unit one will be a two bedroom is 950 square feet. And units two and three are also 950 square feet, but those will be three bedrooms. Okay. Okay. It looks like pretty. And how are the plans, Mr. Ollock? So drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Whitney Salas and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I did hold in about his meeting on 419th, or 3 on October 22nd of 2020. The community improvement neighborhood association was present. We did hear concerns about density, but as you heard, this deliberation on the rezoning to 3F, we've also used four letters of support from neighbors, including across the street and next door. We'd like to go on the regular support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sure I have two withstands for this proposal, just in case elected. Comment. Okay, let's go ahead. Okay. Michael Cohen, you've been unuted. Yes. Thank you so much for your time today. I have come in opposition to this project due to the purpose of which more trees and loss of open space. I know that this law is zoned as open space community garden as the board has already been made aware. It also forms a continuous open space together with the adjacent lot, it's owned by the city at the corner of the within tenetory, together with the lot on the withinton street that I know is owned by the principal's that are also seeking to develop this lot. And it's a good, you know, against its current zoning and against its designation as open space. Finally, note that this lot contains mature trees and as the board is truly aware, the loss of urban canopy due to downed turkeys cannot be adequately replaced by new tree plantings. Nor did I note the opportunity for any new tree plantings in the drawings and and the thought layout that were presented. So for these reasons, I speak in opposition and I hope that the board continues to respect the lots of open space designation so that can be enjoyed by the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is any of the race hands? Yes, Sarah. Kogini. Hi, Sarah. Kogini. I am also opposed to this. A lot of it is owned as open space and it contains mature trees. There's a real lack of open space in this part of Dorchester and I don't think that we should block out the sun with a lot of space. Sarah, what's your address? We always ask for name and address for the record. 51 within ten. Thank you. Members of the board, Dustin Gardner, half city councilor Andrea, Campbell's office. We'd also like to go in a position to stand with the week we received signatures from the butters as well as the CIA neighborhood association. We would like to see it remain green space. Thank you. I also have a comment from Sharon Lee. Keep an eye on the news. I think, yeah, I met 14 Tories Street which is directly across from it. I know myself and my neighbors within my building at 14 Tories opposed it for a number of people. I know that we are the ones who are in the city, state and including last lack of or loss of green space, but we also have concerns particularly because of the size of the development. We are maximizing them on the space and not providing enough parking. We already have parking concerns in our neighborhood. And we recognize that the loss of green space could result in a lot of flooding in our street area. Thank you. Any other raise to us? No. Okay. I have a question for the applicant. So did you purchase this property from D&D? We cannot hear you. Sorry about that. No, ma'am. This was purchased from a private organization. Which organization was that? They are one second, please. I think that was purchased from the private organization. Lost in estuaries. Which one? The Massachusetts Land Conservation Trust. You know what? I don't know how a trust can do that. A land conservation trust. But I don't know if this is the place to solve that problem. Ma'am, is the known as that Boston Natural Area Business Network? I don't know if it's that. Oh, a Boston Natural Airs Valerie used to head that right down. Valerie Buns. I don't know if it's that. Seriously. They are just disposing of their properties. Okay. I'm. Okay. So. So this. This is. Yes. Madam Chair, it's Jeff again. As you know, you. Without the owner's permission, we can't have properties on open space. Yes. I mean, it's absolutely engaging. Otherwise. I don't know. You know, I think this requires a conversation with Boston Natural Area's fund. Whatever the new name is, just to ensure that there is a. A strategy in place for all the parcels they own across the city that have been zoned open space and for community gardens and other kinds of gardens. I mean, I think this should be a red flag for everybody who is on this call. But given the fact that this is a legitimate sale and everything, may I have a motion, please. I mean. I'm sorry. I'm just trying to wrap my head around this whole thing. Yeah. I don't. Me too. And all I can suggest is a motion to die without prejudice so they can come back with more answers about this. I feel. I feel hesitant to take it open space and just automatically. You know, turn it into the occupied space without without. So it was open space because there was an entity who was running these. These gardens and these open spaces city wide, but it sounds like they have gone and gone through. of property, it needs approval from the AG's office that in fact, sale was legitimate. The question becomes, is this too dense for this property? Because I think that's the only question that we can answer today is exactly whether it's appropriate for this site, the dwelling. Well, again, maybe I don't know if this is a solution, but I was prepared to make a motion today without prejudice. So let's, is there a second to that? I will second that. Okay, all those in favor. Hi. You post, you post. I must carry. Who's a post? Nobody's a post. Okay, motion carries. Okay, after the next set, after temple place, we will take a 10 minute break. Madam Chair, I don't know if temple place moving forward. There's five cases and I have to read each one into the record and I don't know if they're moving forward. There was some question and they might be deferring. Any, is this any road? Yeah, I'm on it. This is a very microstruck. We are proceeding and Eddie Roach is also on the call with us. Okay. Very well. Just bear with me because I got to call one of each one in the, even though they have the same preference and they're out some violations that are different on each one. So calling it for the record. Okay. 0A 107 622 634 Temple Street. There were four campaigning cases. BOA 107 623134. Temple. BOA 107 6244 3636 to 368. Did you please mute everybody else? Too much noise. B 0A 107 6239 38 to 38. A temple street. And BOA 107 6235 40 to 48. A temple street. This is proposed, proposed single family condominium home in conjunction with 34 a 36 36 a 38 a 40 and 48 a temple 105 buildings on the same lot. The violations, Article 65 section of 42.13 to more dwellings on the same lot. Article 65 section 9, the fully ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the bill and height number of stories is excessive. But 34 a temple. It is the. Same purpose and same violation. So I'm not going to read that one in. But for 40 a 40 and 48 temple. This is proposed to family. The violations, Article 65 section 42.13 to more dwellings on the same lot. Article 65 section 42.2 conforming with an existing building alignment. Article 65 section 8 use of a two family dwellings forbidden. Article 65 section 9, the fully ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the bill and height is excessive in stories. Same for 38 38 a temple. And then for 36 and 36 a proposed to family is an attached to the house. The violation, Article 65 section 42.13 to more dwellings on the same lot. And then for the next section, the bill 65 section 22.2 conforming with an existing building alignment. Article 65 section 8, the two two family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65 section 9, the fully ratio is excessive. And Article 65 section 9, the bill and height is excessive in stories. Name and address for the record place. Good afternoon. It's my. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the next site disaster, third site, said, and three, the next site plan would be very Neither. have the same idea. There we go. the same. I'm sorry for your questions. The levels are exactly the same. I showed you effects. Okay, I'm going to show you a single. And then what the single has is four bad things. I'm sorry for your questions. They're restored. Um, two concert once. One concert. One second. There's a lot of feedback. It's really hard to hear. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. That's fine. That's great. I'm sure the two one one family is a four bedroom. How many square feet? Okay. Uh, there, it's a 2,100 roughly square foot total with the bedrooms ranging from around 140 to the oversized bedroom on the top floor that you actually see on the elevations of these one families that were, you could scroll down to probably the next slide, that were designed to fit in with the architecture of the area. There is no basement, a living in these one families. It's just the three floors. There is storage, however, in the basement. So that's the two one families that will front the project. Density wise, slightly over the .5 FAR, we're at around .6 FAR. If you go to the maybe it's .6 for. If you go to the next slide, this is the two families, the duplexes. So it's not really two families, a duplex with one with three bedrooms on each side of the duplex. Again, they were designed to try to mimic the architecture of the area. There's a kind of a focus picture down below. And those are three bedrooms each. And those bedrooms range from 187 to 250 square feet. And there's an elevation on the next slide that will give you a sense of what those will look like. The parking is exterior to each of the buildings. There's two spaces each. We meet the other requirements of open space. These are designed for home ownership. And the idea here was to create these single and double families. We do a butt a two family, even though we're in the one F6000 behind us is a two F6000. But we are surrounded by other two's and three's, even in our own one F6000 district. Maybe now's a good time for me to pause and see if there are any questions. Collette, can you please go back and show us the plan as it lays out completely? How is the parking being accommodated? As you can see, in the rear of the first, you know, the two single families, there's two spaces each. And then each of the properties, each of the build of the units has parking on either side of it. And then when you get to the rear duplex, again, each of the units have it on either side of it. And that, you know, we're obviously not counting the parking towards the open space requirement. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? I'm sorry. I had muted myself and I forgot. Anyway, it's an interesting proposal. The buildings are attractive. It has almost such suburban feel to it as a development. I'm sorry. I had muted myself and I forgot. Anyway, it's an interesting proposal. The buildings are attractive. It has almost such suburban feel to it as a development of houses all with the comparable designs in the same area. Not something you see a lot of in the city. The only comment I would make about detail is that you have a very wide driveway, which is attractive. It's in the rendering. It's in brick. That means you have a 20 foot curb cut, which ends up using a whole lot of, like I said, is needed in a city. I'm not sure that you couldn't have a 12 foot curb cut leading into a wide driveway and accomplish the same goal. Other than that, the very nice drawings. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, secretary, we have numerous letters of support and numerous letters of opposition for the racket. Thank you. Madam Chair, yes, go ahead. I have a neighborhood services. We've held an abouters meeting for this proposal on. Excuse me. I don't care. We held a virtual abouters meeting on October 6th. This proposal is also presented at the River Street Civic Association. We've received letters of opposition from the River Street Civic and the Lower Mill Civic Association. We completely agree that the multiple subdivision design is out of character, but we also agree with the Lower Mill Civic and appreciating their design efforts on this project. Given our mission to increase housing and homeownership in the city, we go on the record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm just the board, Dustin Gardner, and half-city Councillor Andrea Campbell's office. We'd like to go on record in opposition primarily due to the density that was voiced in the opposition letters from the Lower Mill Civic and River Street Civic. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have two raised hands. Okay. I Gary, you've been unmuted. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair, and members of the zoning board of appeals at Garreton-Orphidck 17 Temple Street. I'm in a butter and in opposition to this project. And I'd just like to get a little background on this project. The current owner of this property purchased it in June of 2018. The property is a single family lock. It had a historic house and a small carriage barn on it. It was built by the Burgess family, who was a significant roofer, a slight roofer in the Lower Mill's area at the long time. The Inspecial Services Department issued building code violations in January through August 2019 to secure and clean up the property and close up the openings and walls and the roofed. The Article 85 process, which was notified to the owner in January 2019, was never undertaken in discussions with Roseanne Foley at Boston Lamarx commission. She confirmed that none of the Article 85 process had been started by the owner. In January 2019, and that no demolition permit had been issued, unfortunately eight months later due to the decay and the demolition condition of the project, it was torn down as being unsafe. So the neighborhood lost a very significant update. Our concern fundamentally is overcrowding and overdeveloped. The Abutters and Neighbors expressed these concerns at several meetings, two civic association meetings. So, I'll hold on. Can I just ask you a couple of questions? Because I, you know, the part that's different about this lot is it's 26,000 square feet. So I completely get it that it's a one family zone or two families own. But that's for your standard, your standard lot size. So, what 26,000 square feet and what what what what what what what what what what what decisions can be made on something that large. Well, I think one of the things, Madam Chair, that we looked at. And we discussed in questions to the applicants at our at our neighborhood meetings was how many people would fundamentally be living on this lot. So if one looks at eight units, each and they were. Three bedroom units, each bedroom could accommodate two people, allowing at least six persons for home. Ultimately, then the property could have at least 48 people on this lot. And so we're looking at eight units, five buildings on a lot that originally had a single family house on it. And so what we were concerned about is, first of all, this is a shared driveway. Most of the lot is paved. The question is, is there enough space for people side yards for yards, places for children places to play. Also, we have an issue of Temple Street is a very narrow one way street. We do not have any on street parking available. Also, and looking at the layout of the parking, it's piggyback parking. So the car is going to have to move out of their current spaces. And potentially, guests would be on Temple Street, which is basically it's an issue of congestion. Okay, so hold on. I know my apologies. It's. So besides density, a concern about parking, is there anything else? What we're concerned about the concern about life safety, the. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I just want that I just need to get the highlights from you. Okay, anything else, life safety parking density? Safety relative to fire and safety relative to having enough space around the dwellings. So that they can be used appropriately rather than. And a congested banner. Okay, thank you. Anybody else in the other way stands? Yes, Madam Chair. Color 7593. You've been unmuted. Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and member of the board. My name is Javala Spett, a resident of 30C to three. I'm a resident of the local mental health association and the restriation association. And we've had many hearings on this matter. I am surprised that the city, the legal person approved this when everybody. All the politicians, everybody who's attending so many of these hearings. So I'm sorry, let me ask you, what is your opposition based on? The density, the density, we cannot this area here. We have the most single families on that street. Then there's more single families made to one or two two families, but a lot of single families. This is not the kind of area to increase the density, Madam Chair. Okay. As the my street is one or two street over and the where we suggested to order is to build. Two single family homes on that lot. Madam, if I can, I'm a house on the street. My life will be the exact same size. A lot of. Okay. Sir, thank you. Anybody else? Any other raised hands? I'm trying to see no other raised hands. Okay. So I think we've gotten a good, a good amount of information from various sources. Based on that information, may I have a motion, please? I'd like to know if you approve of a PPDA design review. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Anybody oppose? The Lagras deposes. So, uh, Lagras, the police. I think we can move on. And Lagras, can you talk, Donald? Okay. Thanks. So, the Lagras deposes, um, fortune opposes anybody else oppose? Motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, are you taking a break? Um, uh, yes. Let's, uh, yeah, let's just take a five minute break. We're going to have to take a break. We're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. So, we're going to have to take a break. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Mr. Fortune, I see you there. Mr. Olet, I see you. Mr. Haryl, are you on? Is Joe, Joe on? Is Sir Costa on? Tyrone, to the Madam Chair. Tyrone, is you excellent, Mr. DeVoe? I'm on the Madam Chair. Okay, Joe and Costa, you guys on? That was an issue. It's been a new show. I'm sorry. Okay, excellent. So let's get moving. Mr. Fortune, go ahead. My pleasure. Case, the O8991-361-533 Washington Street. This is a change of our, our commission to include a recreational cannabis retail establishment. This is a remodel, the entire interior of the building. The violation of Article 65, Section 15. The use of retail cannabis establishments, the bid and use table B footnote, Number 25. Article 65, Section 15. Use of the conditional cannabis establishment. Name and address, Bill Reckon, please. Hello again, Madam Chair, members board. This is Mike Ross, Attorney with Prince Joe Bell. I'm the happy applicant. And by the way, happy New Year to everyone as well. The applicant is Cheryl Crawford and Steve Svetta. They're on the phone and we also have Dan Lindsky, our security consultant. Our architect, Eric Zacherson. So there's two pieces of relief here. There's the conditional use just for the cannabis site. And there's also the buffer requirement. This was approved by the Boston Cannabis Board, which is a very important part of the bill. And we're going to have to be prepared to go forward with regard to both. Even though this is now the zoning matter, but they did consider the buffer issue. The buffer issue just to refresh everyone's recollection is that you're within a half a mile of an existing dispensary. You would have this additional requirement to grant relief for the buffer requirement. So, I'm going to have to go through. Tell us what, what facility it is within a half a half mile. That's right. So within it's not half mile. So 500 feet from here, a company that knew of low key came before this board. You may remember at 577 Washington Street. So there are about 500 feet from us. And that's what triggers the additional buffer. So we had to, the relief that we're seeking. So we had to kind of make a heightened case to the Boston Cannabis Board. And now we have to make that heightened case to you as well. I was going to just walk you through really quickly. This floor plan right here is actually perfect. This is two floors within an existing three floor building, three story building that France Washington Street, being on the left hand side, where those bow windows are. And then two side streets essentially flank. The sides of it. Rose Dale at the top and Dunlop at the bottom. I have a site plan. I'll show you too. But this is a good way to just show you how it, how it kind of works. This is an 1800 approximately 800, 1800 square foot. That first floor, the one on the left. And that's the only area where the public would go. And they enter through the red arrow through an accessible entrance. And they basically make them themselves around the facility going clockwise, first getting in through security, then making their selection, and then fulfillment and having their IDs checked twice, 21 and older, older, and then leaving through a separate entrance. The basement, which is on your right, will have direct access of deliveries as well as cash delivery. It's not available to the public. It's only for personnel and it's where the vault will occur. And the basement's access will be directly on a Rosedale street where secure deliveries will be made. There should be a site plan at the bottom, which I think does a bad way of. I'm still hung up on something, Mr. Councillor Ross. Yes, sir. So the one that we approved was literally right on the other side of the street of Rosedale. No, no, it's 500 feet. Where was it? It was an Aspen wall. That's what I'm talking about. So you're actually going to have a, if you go down a couple more, actually we did provide a context map for you here. So it's essentially a block over. Essentially a block over. So it was a, yeah. So the reason is in the red here. That's us. And then Loki is the pink that you can see on about 500 feet from us. We took the liberty of pointing out that there's three nails alongs. There's, you know, two Chinese restaurants. There's two drug stores. You're like usual walk through the neighborhood, okay? Right. So it's not uncommon to have, to have these. And indeed to get the 52 that the city will ultimately need, there's going to have to be some permeations here and there to the buffer zones. Now, is this a minority applicant? It is. I failed to mention that. I apologize. The applicant is an equity applicant, meaning 51% or more of the ownership is a person of color who also qualifies with other conditions that make them an equity applicant. And in fact, the Boston cannabis board put emphasis that in the event that there is going to be a permutation to the buffer zones. More through Dicta and through other conversations as well as the council made this conversation. It should go generally to an equity applicant when that occurs. Okay. I had a site plan here. Man, chair, I. I don't know if it's attached to this. Oh, great. Yep. There we go. It's just worth quickly showing you the site plan. I think it's on the second page. Here we go. Perfect. This is it. Just to point out that there is parking. To the rear of the building. And this is also a good way to point out how to access the dispensary, the first floor of the building. And then you can either enter through Washington Street, which is on your left. There'll be an accessible ramp to allow access there. Or you can see the switchback ramp ramp on the next to the parking area where there's room for five cars. And there'll be access. That way this building actually functioned as a. Believe it out of nurse, like a daycare center for several years. It's no longer function today as a daycare center. But all of its access and issues like that were operated only a couple of years ago to make it accessible. Now it might be a good time to pause. I'm jealous about the hours of operation. I think I'm so sorry. I think you might have. I think that one is not. I think we're doing 10 to 8. 8. Yes. Yes. I believe those are both 10 to 8. Yes. Originally it was 8. Which we were not opposed to that either. It's more or less what the community looked for. And I think a little later hours from 10 to 8 were sufficient for the neighborhood. And is that seven days a week? Yes. Manager. Okay. And tell us about deliveries. So the deliveries would be coming through. This is a good enough slide to show through Rosedale Street. We would probably pull into our parking space. And Dean Linsky was on the call. We'll coordinate this very likely will be before opening hours. So to limit any issues as it may relate to either the morning commute or as it might relate to just customer business. And there's direct safe access and entry to the basement where the safe is. And where personnel go only. And it's a completely separate entrance from the other side of the building where the ramps are. Where the customers will enter. We anticipate maybe two twice a week having deliveries. And what's the zoning district? Is that is this an LC or CC? It's an LC. It's an LC. Okay. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Ola? You're becoming quite an expert on these. The drawings are fine. They correspond to the function. I do have a question though. What is the current legal status of the 500 seat buffer? I don't know. But I think I'm going to have a question. I don't know what the current legal status of the 5th seat buffer because that was. Any source of controversy some time ago on this board. Yeah, absolutely. I remember. It's still in place. So in order to defeat it. We would need to get a variance and the variance would have to be approved. So it's still still survives. I think there's. it's written into the actual zoning as that footnote in the use table where it says provided that it must be within, not within 500 feet of a school or half a mile from an existing cannabis establishment. So why would we grant a variance for something that's intended to create a public cost? Yeah, well, because at some point, you're gonna need to get 52 of these in the city. The way the state law works is it's 20% of the number of liquor stores. And that's out in handy community, yeah, in any community that voted for it. Commues that voted against it have the right to zone it out. The commues that voted for it, it's 20% minimum, not maximum. So at this rate, you know, you might get to 30, I don't, and there's about 30 right now that are in the pipeline. I don't think you get to 52. And so there are gonna be these cases that we have to make the case. There has to be neighborhood support, there has to be, and we have that here. We do have some people who have submitted letters of support or non-opposition, elected officials, what have you think that this is a good case for it. This is a good case. Yeah, you couldn't find a location that was at Martin 500 feet from another. You know, it was really amazing. Let's just say, let me just pass on. What's the cost? Can you please mute for a minute? Thank you. The question is, I'm gonna piggyback on Mr. Oleg, is that, you know, we're creating issues with equity applicants competing against each other in a way that I'm not sure is necessarily healthy. And that we know, as a board, it's gonna get another case on Hyde Park Ave, which is an equity applicant versus an on-off equity applicant. And so these are issues that, you know, you don't have to pay attention to, but that we have to pay attention to. So right to be right back on what Mr. Oleg says, what was the issue with finding another location? In this case, it was a race to the finish line for two applicants who both know each other and both understood that they were both doing this, but they were both in 100% before kind of got to this point. I do agree that we have to make the case as to why we deserve. In this case, I do believe the equity piece grants that. If there was another applicant that had some other feature, we would have to make that case to you. What we tried to show you is that in this neighborhood, there are multiple of every type of store, including drug stores and liquor stores, which is, statutorily, what is the basis for the legislation to begin with? So it's not too far off field to suggest that there could be nearby cannabis, not everywhere, but in some locations. And this is a dense neighborhood that has been able to support multiple locations, multiple businesses of the same type. And we do believe that given the Boston Cannabis Board, unanimous support and given the support of the elected leaders in the community or the non-opposition, we do believe we've made that case there. We hope that you think so too, little. So may I see Cheryl, Cheryl, can you please unmute? Because tell us a little bit about your role in this. Cheryl Crawford. I am sorry about that. I'm having some challenges. My video may be in some eye challenges, another story. But again, please, what is my role in this? I am the equity, I'm the one that holds the equity status. I lived in the community. I was raised in this community. My car, I mean, I've done a lot of work in this community. Cheryl, I know you outside of here, but I do feel that it's important for us to have you as the equity person for this case and for this application, you know, also be a visible part of this team. Yes, okay. Absolutely, I am. Very much so. Okay. Council, was there anything else you wanted to add? I'm a scroffit, anything else you need to add to the presentation? There are some people who speak in support, maybe we can... And what is your commitment to hiring local? It's a question for me. Yes. So we have made a series, we have made the commitment to hire local. We have 90% local, 98% local, 98% people of color. I live in this community, I work in this community. I support this community, and I always support economic development in this community. I think that this will be a great addition to this community because some of the other services that we hope to provide outside of, you know, it's a cannabis industry in and of itself, but it's the learning curve around that. The way that it's been stigmatized is to help people understand about cannabis, right? Like the learning, what we plan to do with it, the training programs, we understand that there are more equity employees, equity status people like myself that just don't know what to do and we want to do some kind of trainings and just showing people how to move through the systems. This has been a long time coming. We've been with Council of Micros started to say we've been in lockstep with the other organization. It was just a matter of timing of who got into, you know, it's all about timing, but we absolutely did our community meeting one week after we were one week apart. We have a lockstep all of our, we're not new to this. We've been in the process for almost two years. Thank you. Thank you so much. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Greetings Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. My name is Shantali Mabarboza with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. A community process was held for this proposal by my predecessor. We recognize that the applicant is requesting a variance for the buffer zone. However, we believe that this is a strong local equity applicant located in a business district and will stimulate economic development for the neighborhood. This application address community concerns in regards to safety, security and parking while the climate square neighborhood council closes cannabis establishment in the area, the applicant receives some support from the abutters and the Boston cannabis board did approve this application. That being said, the mayor's office will like to go on record and support. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, any other raised hands? Yes, I have three raised hands. You know, the electives are on the spink. All right, go ahead. Canes and manuals. You've been unmuted. Yeah, good afternoon. Happy New Year to everybody. My name is Ahin Tune in. Well, I'm the owner of 529 Washington State, or Chester, which I've owned for approximately 40 years. I am retired. I am a retired Boston school teacher for 25 years. I have witnessed the development of our community with various types of commerce, which has been very beneficial to our community. These are some of my concerns about the cannabis business that is actually right next to me. I don't know if people is in that there are two streets and there are two houses that includes with those two streets. One is Dunlop, and the other one is Rosedale. In that there are two houses. One is 529 Washington Street, which is a three-family dwellers. And the other one is 533 Washington Street. Mr. Manual, can you tell us what your concerns are? All right, my concerns. Yeah, yeah. I'm going to go ahead. My concerns are basically security. I had a murder that took place opposite my dwelling on 2008 at a G and D. Otto Center. The building adjacent to me, which is believed by Texas Babu Kewa, was straight with 19 bullets. I had, we have Yang activity that's taken place in the neighborhood. We have a rehab center that is very close to the court. And now we put in a cannabis distribution center right next to my building. My concerns are I can't bring my grandparents over to visit to play outside. I cannot rent the place with good conscience to somebody that has kids to the property. And it puts me in a real bad position because I can't really get the kind of rents that I need to make so that I can pay by taxes as I suppose. Thank you. Mr. Manual, thank you. Mr. Ambassador, can we hear from somebody else? Absolutely, Adam Justin. We can unmute him. Hi, Madam Chair, names of the board. I'd like to go on record and support of the applicant. The applicants are upstate citizens. They have deep ties to the neighborhood. And additionally, I do appreciate the layout of the parking and the entry and exit to keep it well-known off of Washington Street. That's all I have to say. Mr. Japson, can you put your address on the record, please? Yes, ma'am. I live at 16 Train Street in Goa, Chester. Thank you. Lewis Lisa, you've been on the internet. Good afternoon. My name is Lewis Lisa. I live at 68 Seaheer Street in Goa, Chester. I'm speaking on behalf of the applicants. I'm in favor of the establishment. I'm speaking off because I work number of years throughout Goa, Chester and the rest of Boston with community groups and organizations. I know the applicant and her associates to be committed to the success and the progress of the community and that their business will show the integrity and support that they've given for other activities and programs. And I think that you challenge it to have in terms of the proximity of the businesses improved to be worthwhile as there's the high demand within the community and that it'll be held in with integrity and we support those who live there. Thank you. We do keep going. There's about a great more hands first. Yes, let's go to the caller. Yes, let's go to the caller. It's 27. Until the front. When I'm in. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Minor for us with a carpenters meeting. We want to go and record support of this establishment. Thank you. Thank you. Trevor McKenzie. Hello, my name is Trevor McKenzie. I'm a resident at 83 Centra Street in Cobb and Square. I'm familiar with Cheryl and the other owners of this project. And I just I know she's well tied into the community. And I just want to say I support this project support. The hiring of minorities and a local local owned business within our community. Thank you. I'm just passing through the right. That is Gary Gary Tonda for dick off and speak. I want to let his hand is raised, but it won't allow me to mute or unmute him. Okay, not sure. Okay, so given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. And it's not be already designed. I'll put the sign on. Is there a second? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all those in favor. Any opposed? Liger's supposed to. I don't know how we approve. I mean, it sounds like a great proposal. I just don't know how we approve something. It's in the buffer zone. I think I can. Costs like a new mute, please. I think that. I think that. The issue is that sometimes the. More projects that actually hit the ground. So if there's a demand and you know these two can survive. You know, good luck. And some looking forward to seeing your storefront active. Thank you. Thank you very much. Motion carries. Thank you, Matt. Call me next case calling the. 1130258 36 to 38. Marie Hill Road. This is a proposed to erect a two family on the vacant lot. Related to article 69 section 9. The really got set back as insufficient. Article 67 section 9. A lot size to erected dwelling is insufficient. Article 67 section 9. A lot of air traditional dwelling in it is insufficient. Article 67 section 9. The middle of what's required is insufficient. Article 67 section 9. I'm in a lot of frontage is insufficient. Article 67 section 9. The flow of the air ratio is excessive. Article 67 section 9. The height requirement is excessive. Article 67 section 9. The front. Yeah, it's set back is insufficient. Article 67 section 9. The side yard set back is insufficient. And article 67 section 9. Useable open space is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. But after the amount of. The number of. Today's thinking belief. Directed to family. To park. Spaces on a. Zoning. Is a two F 5000. Have a bus. Four thousand. And. The unit sizes. Unit one will be two bedrooms. One and a half. And. The. 1800 square feet. Unit two. Unit two. Is three bedrooms. Two bath. Five. Five. Five. I'm sorry. In what was that? 18. Okay. Just back. Okay. With the guy to the violation. Bad of share. Lot of practice. The requirement is 15 feet. You have 40. A. F. A. We're proposing 1.0. Building. We think we were cited erroneously as. Building as proposed is two and a half stories at 34 feet. So we are not. I'm going over the 35th. The first thing a 10 foot which is photo with other buildings on that street. Scythe or violation requirements 10 feet. We have 10 feet on the side of which contains the driveway, which is left side. As the site plan shows on the other side we have approximately five. Which takes care of the side yards. We got to open space. We have a lot of work. We have a lot of work. We're thinking for the two family with. Can we see the ring green of this two family please? I'm going to go to the next one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Not clear just for education. There are no bedrooms in the basement. Okay. That's where I was going to ask. I know it's coming. I know. And let's see. I think I might have missed it. Okay. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Olic? The wrongs are adequate and not just because it's no group living space in the basement. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board. Joe Cobb and Jeff in the May is office of neighborhood services. And we've got to go out and record and support this proposal. We completed a community process back on November 10th, 2020. We received no formal opposition. We did receive one request that would be made a single family. But with that being said, we'd like to go out and record and support this. This proposal similar to others on the street. The 4,000 square foot area is similar to the other two families on this street. So again, we would like to go on record support. Thank you. Is this this. I think this is the second single construction on Marie Hill. Excuse me. On this counselor. The order is. Marie Hill. Marie Hill Road LLC in the particular Webster. Okay. Any anybody here else to speak in support? I have one raised hands by my. Do you want to support other. My. No, this one. Okay. Nothing from the local councilor. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? All the favor? Hi. Hi. I'm the motion carries. Thank you. I'm the board. I'm the next case calling VLA 111528617. Ting's borrowed part. Is there a renovation of third floor and additional condition, a little bit space. The second story condo. The violation is article 55 section 9 of 40 racial success of an article 55 section. Inside. God is insufficient. Maybe that's just for the record, please. I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to be able to do that. David. David. You wanted to make you and Mr. Erick over there. That. Updated plan for received on this. They were reviewed by the plans examiner this morning. But I don't know Mr. Erick has had a chance to review those. So I would leave it up to your discretion whether or not. You would want to proceed with this appeal. Yeah, no, um, Stephanie emailed me the plans a few hours ago. I'm going to be able to take your time. We'll be able to do that. So you just have to put your name and address on the record, please. Madam chair members of the board, this is David. Yassah resident and co owner of the second floor condominium at 17 Kingsboro Park in Jamaica, plain. And tell us what you're planning on doing. The purpose of the proposed project is to add a 699 square foot addition. That's the same thing. The minimum. Condominium. Condominium. Association at the above address. OK, so hold on a minute. Mr. Erick, how? How do the plans look? You know, this is a relatively minimal project and there's adequate. There's adequate floor ceiling. Hi, David. It's OK. Is and any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak and supported this proposal? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam chair members of the board. This is Lindsay Santana from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. And the butter's meeting was held on October 5, 2020. And they just they received the support of the Jamaica plain neighborhood council. So the mayor's office would like to go on record us in support. Thank you. Members of the board, Karen Foley, Boston City Council, at least a savvy Georgia's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam chair secretary here, we have six letters of support. Thank you. Madam chair, it appears there are no raised hands related to this proposal. They have a motion, please. Motion to approve. BPD designed you. Sac. Sac. All those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is the output can hear if I said to straight? No, there wasn't a butter who checked it earlier in the day, but. Okay. Any messages in the chat or any? It's raised. Okay. Let's just move on and come back to that. Actually, it's now. Probably have one more case manager. Okay. Let's just. Then we'll come back to that one. I think somebody's. Hello. Hello. You sound low and you can you. Up. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead. Your name and address the record. My apologies. My name is Ryan with DK Molyne Architects. And are you here for 1870 Centus Street in Musrox? We we are. Yes. Okay. So are you going ahead? I'm I'm sorry. I'm getting a lot of feedback. What did you tell us? Tell us what's being proposed. Yes. Okay. I'm missing. So can you mute everybody? Yes. Okay. Go ahead. Tell us what you're proposing to do. Yes. So this is an existing. Mercantile. We're proposing to bring in a fitness center as an a three assembly. So that's a change of use. And then we're. Requesting a parking variance and a. 24 hour. Use. Okay. And so give us more details. Is this a planet fitness only going to be on the first floor? Or is it going to extend into the basement and the second floor? Yes. So plan of fitness will take over all three stories. The basement ground level and second story. As part of that, we're also looking at a. Change in the facade on the street side. And so we're going to go to the second floor. Reusing what was an enclosed existing opening for a second story window. And the only access to the building is off the street side. There's no access. For daily use off the back of the building. It's an emergency egress only. And so let me just ask. How are you going to control for 24 hours? How are you going to control for people safety for 24 hours operation? So fitness is a members only fitness club. And there's a 24 hour. Seven on site staff. Okay. And the parking is at the rear of the building. Okay. So how are the plans Mr. Olic? We plan the pretty straightforward. Any questions from the board? Real quick. If there are. For whatever reason. And the client for this project is unable to speak. His name is Chase. Okay. In the meantime, in the meantime, while we're trying to fix that. Is anybody here to speak in support of this? Madam chair secretary here. I had a question on the board so I'm you. Are there any other plan if this is an open 24 hours in a community? Like what's rocks through? The client would be best to answer this. Can everyone hear me? Who is this? I'm the director of construction for class. This is 320 yonkers Avenue in yonkers, New York. I did answer your question. Yes, there is throughout the country. Actually, we have a 2000 stores nationwide. Hold on, Chase. Young is a pretty city and we love New York. We're asking more specifically about Boston. We have been working for a lot of other 24 hour. Plot of fitness locations in a neighborhood such as West Roxbury, which is very predominantly resident with this. I guess there is a issues. Madam chair, I was just stating my address before that. That's our. Yeah, so tell us where in Boston, we can find a 24 hour. So in in doorchester in Boston, proper winter street. And we're in doorchester. I don't know the street off the hand. We have quite a few stores. I just don't know them off hand every single one. Okay. Let's move ahead. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yeah, I think it's a good. Jack Doug and mayor's office and efforts services just like to go in record support. So the applicant completed a full community process. We had no butters meeting back in September 2020. That's what have meeting. There are residential butters behind the property that kind of a butt the parking lot. So there are several letters of opposition just because of the 24 hour nature in the parking and the back and the disturbances and the noise that could be happening. The applicant then went before the neighbor council back in October of 2020. So the neighbor council supported their proposal six nothing to with the stipulation note that there's a six month probationary period to ensure the surrounding residential neighbors are satisfied with regard to always concerns. If there are no place concerned during that six month period they go back before the neighbor council to kind of mitigate those issues. So we'd like to support. Scipulation. If there are any issues that arise they have to go back to neighbor council. Thank you. There were some officers senator Lincoln balloons a movingazi central char spike at large Michael Flarey. I go into the center of the mayor's office with that proviso that was put in by the West Rochbury neighborhood council. The council would want his support. Thank you. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Secretary, one matter of support. Okay, can we hear from the race next starting with Jason? Jason, is that you? Jason, you have been a beauty? Hey, Jason Camille here at Nine Hasting Street. I'm here in opposition of the 24-hour U-SET 1870s center street. The front of property has residential butters in the rear. And this portion of the property is outlined as parking. And we'll increase noise and light pollution in the neighborhood in the late evening in early morning hours. Thank you. Melissa? You did? Yep, you've been on your day. Good afternoon. Madam Chair and committee members. I actually, I am the real estate broker of perishable management services at 221 Columbus, Boulevard in Boston. I received a letter of support from the butter immediately next door. George Holmes, the HOMSI, his letter to summarize it is that he believes that the 24-7 operation will deter crime. He also thinks that it will attract other businesses to downtown and that he himself has experienced vacancies as a result of COVID and hopes that it will benefit the community. He also believes that plan of fitness will benefit the community because of their philanthropy. And you know that this is in West Roxbury, not downtown. No, correct. I just was stating my physical address because you've asked for free to be public safety. I think the address that Mr. HOMSI is directly next door. He owns the subway franchise and his father also wrote a letter in support. The address of that property is 1860 and 1860. We do. So, um, specifically does oppose closing down the rear parking lot. He thinks that that is short-sighted because many businesses in the area do not have their own parking lot and rely on the parking lot. So, um, we had gone to, we had from Patricia Stanton, please. 18 Lin-Ev Street in West Roxbury. Leigh-Linley, 44-Corey Street, which is a six-family building directly adjacent to the back parking lot. Three of our residents, and we are very vehemently opposed based upon the noise that these people deal with 24 hours. Thank you. And I hear from Stephen, please. My name is, thank you Chairman, Madame Chairman. My name is Stephen and I'm in the butter of residential property behind the and the fitness. I'm sorry, press, please. The address is one hasting street. Oh, you're on hastings. So, go ahead. Yep. And I personally do not oppose the business, but I am strongly against the business 24 hour proposal. And the opposition is based on concerns of noise and late evening activities. Uh, on what my understanding, the business has no plans to monitor or to address any late night noise activities. And this is a residential neighborhood. And I do not believe that our neighborhood should be used as an experimental neighborhood to give this 24 hour proposal a six-month period. Thank you. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion, please? Just to put this on in contact, the frontage of the building is on center street. It knows that the street in West Roxbury, however, there are, you know, two 24-fifth-year buildings in the rear. Madam Chair, I'll make a motion to deny with on prejudice. Is there a second? I'll start. Okay. Those in trigger. Aye. Any opposed? No, I don't oppose. How much are those? Well, what else is that? Mark, I mean, Mark, you're opposed. Both the marks are opposed. I assume I, I suppose more motion so it's denied with our prejudice. Following the next case, probably B-O-A-109-729-314, Mom Hood Road. Madam Chair, if I could, it'd devote. I've had some technical difficulties. I'd like to record to reflect that I have not been able to vote on any of the matters going back to, I believe, was the cannabis on Washington. So, what is your vote? Because everything else was fine. What is your vote? I was picked off. Don't feel comfortable voting on it, because I did not hear the entire matter. Or because, um, so I think then that we need to hear the next question. Or because, um, so I think then that we need to hear this, because, um, can we just move this to the next meeting please, because, um, so it's, it wasn't a duly, uh, uh, you can't talk about on this, okay? Okay? Because we have two in opposition, one who cannot hear, um, so the vote doesn't care. You can make a motion to defer it then to, uh, J-16. Yes, please, yes. Yeah, I apologize if I'm trying my best to get back on and keep having technical issues. Madam, I'm sure. Okay, so please mute everybody. Um, and let's get a date for next, for the next meeting. So Madam Chair, we have a date of January 26th. Okay, let's get to January 26th. We're doing one o'clock, I would imagine. Okay, one o'clock, okay? Um, the vote is your, is your system up and running now? I believe so, Madam Chair. Let's go on with the next matter. The, was the component still on today here? The date? I haven't heard. No, I'm here. A-B-Hud services convened to our children. Okay, I'll let them know. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-109-729-314-Monthood Rose. This is seeking to change our current existing three-family residential drawings with seven-family residential drawings. Violation, Article 51, Section 9. In sufficient additional audit area for a unit. Article 51, Section 9, excessive FAR, basement unit. Article 51, Section 9, insufficient open space for a unit. Article 51, Section 9, number of have a habitable stories has been exceeded. Article 51, Section 56, insufficient parking. Article 51, Section 8, use of the table. Fruit news, book number five, basement units, half a bit. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Jeff Drago. Attorney Drake, what's the name of the interrupt for a second? Costa Ligris will be recusing themself in this matter. Thank you. With an address of 11, being speak. Here with me is also Eric Zacherson from Code of Text, or Code of Text. I just want to point out that this plan has changed and the description has changed from when we first filed and the plans will reflect that. The proposal now is to change the occupancy of the existing three family residential dwelling to a six family residential dwelling. We removed the basement unit. We do have two by-level units with an extension of living space into the lower level, which I will go over. The plan now is as it shows, we are not changing anything to the context of footprint of the building itself. Everything will remain the same. In the lower level now, we are proposing a common utility room entered by a staircase and our two units, one and two have our lower levels. Just to point out, our sailing height existing is eight foot ten inches. We do not have any bedrooms and listening to the board over the last few months. We took heed of that. There are no bedrooms in the bottom. Our grading is about 75% in unit one, which if we can show the front of the building, I think the board can see that because it's on a slope on Mount Hood. We also have a full walk out, two means of egress. So one in the front entrance down a set of stairs for each unit, but also a full walk out and the rear of the property as well. Part of the units. Colle, can you please show us how the units are going to move up one please? Eight ten, thanks. Okay, go ahead, Councillor. Or in the bottom level, Madam Chair, the elevated level, there is living room kitchen in one bath for both unit one and unit two. Those units will be 1265 square feet and the second part of that of the by-level section of that is on the first floor. That will have a two bedroom unit and a three bedroom unit with one bath and two bath. As we go up to the second floor, that would house units three and four. Unit three would be an eight hundred and eighty one square foot two bedroom one bath. And you would be a five hundred and thirty two square foot studio unit. As we go up to the third floor, that's units five and six. That has a seven hundred and forty three one bed one bath and unit six is a six hundred and eighty one square foot one bed one bed. Right now, the current layouts of these units are basically set up with multiple bedrooms. So it's a three unit, but our bedroom count will not be going up. So right now, there are 10 bedrooms in the existing buildings with four, four, and two. And now we are proposing to keep only 10 bedrooms, but get rid of a number of the studios in these units to make these sort of better units. Right now, before we, my client owned the building, they were just renting out studies, renting out bedrooms so that, you know, that this will clean up this building and involve a full renovation inside. Also to go up to the floor. Hold on. Hold on. How are the plans, Mr. Olic? I wasn't thrilled with the plans that I had gotten before, but Mr. Drego, what he's describing, is substantially different, but I'm seeing those plans on the screen, not the ones I preview. So, you know, I mean, this is an attempt essentially to make a take a handful of apartments and double the number by cutting it in half, but it sounds like the way the building was being used, was the rooms were being run out. And so maybe this is a better solution, but certainly the certainly the basement proposal that Mr. Drego is presenting is a far better solution than what the plans that I preview. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a corner new with the mayor's office and the board services, let go and record support this proposal. Our office conducted the board was meeting on August 26. Primary concerns were with parking on the street and what none existing conditions. The app in its sense worked and reduced the density, so that the better encounter will remain the same. It's also gone down from seven units to six in their proposal. They went on to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association and received support there as well. Was there, I know was there any comment not to rent to undergrads or grads? I don't recall that specifically in the language at the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, and I don't have it in my notes here for the abouters. Madam Chair, I can just say that we would not be renting to undergrads anyway, just to put that out. Graduate students. We weren't planning on restricting that, but that certainly if the board feels that it would be necessary, we would go along. Okay, let's see. Anybody else to speak on this proposal? Good afternoon, this is Maurem Acre from Councillor Reen's office. We'd like to go on record as being an opposition to this project. We have concerns about the living areas included in the basement, just due to quality of life issues. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, current Foley, Councillor Saby, George's office. We'd like to echo Councillor Saby's and going up to the position to this project, sorry. Annemble. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annemble Goams from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record and support of the project. They worked closely with the neighbors on the street and came up with its proposal that is acceptable. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary has 14 letters of support. Okay, Annemble. Was there any comments about renting two grads or undergrads? I'd be honest with you. I can't remember if there was or wasn't. We don't typically have a problem with renting two grads. It's more undergrads that is the key problem in our neighborhood. I can't remember if that was brought up at the meeting. I don't believe it because it would be in my notes as a requisite, but we would be comfortable with putting that in there as that's something that we do usually ask all the time for them not to rent undergrads. Okay. Let's see James Long, please. Yes. Hi, James. You've been? Yes. Thank you. I'm in a butter ride, live at 30 now, 39, Mountedwood Road. And I was contacted by the developers actually before they started the process. They did make some changes. And as a result of that, I support the project. Thank you. That's it, right? I'm with some Acidur. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for approval, but to hold signature until the revised plans are submitted, because it would not have voted for it when the previous set of plans. Okay. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The record I am opposed, but the motion carries. So you're all second. Not thank you, Memes of Board. Madam Chair, before I call the next case, Council would like to intervene here to ask a question. Is Mr. DeVoe online right now? Yes, I am. Mr. Secretary. Did you get? No, you said you did not hear 533 Washington Street or you did? I can't if it was. Yes, I was disconnected halfway through. Didn't vote. I did not. Madam Chair, there are two votes in opposition that would make only four in favor of that appeal. On Washington Street, no, I thought the only vote is he who recused himself. I thought, cost the recutes itself. I don't have any recusals. I have I have Ligris and Erlich in opposition. So that's you. Oh my god. Listen, you've got to give us a heads up earlier on. Somehow, you know, send us a note or something. We need to call those guys back to. Well, there were two other cases before I came back on, which was Marie Hill Road and then King's Plural Park. But both of them went through without any opposition. Okay. I just wanted to make sure the clerk of the other right here. The only solution I see is the contacts the applicant for 533 Washington and let them know what happened and we'll have to re-notice it for another gig. Yeah, let's just do that. Okay, so let's move to the rediscussions. Okay, Madam Jeff, we're going to go to the golf 30-week discussions. Calling the first case, calling the OA105029132 Halleen Street. This is the raised existing structure. 32-alleen combined lots. The new lot to be 2076 square feet. This is the five-story multi-family dwelling with parking for four vehicles. The violation is Article 27T-5. This is an E-pod in iPod. Article 53, Section 56, insufficient parking and unloading. Article 53, Section 56.5A, parking maneuverability. Article 53, Section 8, Section 8, dwelling is forbidden. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, the number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, the maximum of how height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side-guet setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient additional law to area per unit. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space per unit. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient area setback. Article 53, Section 56, FAR, street parking and unloading. The design and the dimension zones of spaces provided are on the side. May we add to us full of record please? Madam Chair, I'm using myself. Madam Chair, I'm using myself. Thank you. We have to do Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lennon's on behalf of Michael Raab, the petitioner for the proposal of Thirded Tour of Leeds Street. Also with me is Nick Landry, who is the project architect. Madam Chair, this project is located just in the edge of the Chair's point neighborhood. For lack of a better description, our close-and-mabric square. It's actually located at 3F 2000 District. There's a pre-existing three family dwelling on the site and a vacant lot. We're proposing to demolish the existing three family dwelling. We're placed that with a new six unit dwelling with parking at the grade level. As you can see here from the BPDA abstract, the lots are typical for that side of the street. It's actually located next to a 30 unit mixed-use building with stands of five stories to the rear portion of the property. If we can sneak down to the next slide, we can probably see the context of the neighborhood. So here's the existing three family dwelling with the multi-family located meeting to the right. We can go to the next slide. Looking down or lean street, this is towards the wire front. You have a 15 unit building to really cost the street. Mr. Lens, it's getting late for us. Can you go through your presentation? Okay, to the chase. Let me move to the rendering. Yes, sorry about that Madam Chair. I'm going to look excited when I get the opportunity to present it here. Thank you for that. Why don't we stop? Let's stop at that one there. So Madam Chair, what we're proposing is actually four studio units or about 620 square feet each on two two-bedroom units approximately 12 hundred square feet. And those would be located on levels four and levels five. We've taken, gone to great lengths through the community process to design this building, to fit and complement the street scape along that section of Orleans street. One of the other things that we've done through the community process is ensure that the height of our building is actually lower than the roof deck of the adjoining 38 unit building to its right. We do have that direct debutter who is an owner occupant of that building supporting this project based upon the modifications we made. We also agreed to do no roof deck above the upper level. With respect to the relief that's necessary because this is a three-half district, we are requesting relief from multi-family use. We do meet the requirements for minimum lot size at 2076 square feet and the minimum lot frontage at we have 37.75 feet. We do require relief on the side yard, but there was already an existing non-conforming condition on the left side. We are maintaining that but providing a two-and-a-half foot setback on the right side. The rear yard for this particular lot under the exception side article 53 would only be a 10 foot requirement because of the shallow nature. The existing condition is already non-conforming and we are proposing a seven-and-a-half foot setback. The height of this building is above the three-story 35 foot limit. We do propose this at five stories however as I mentioned the design of this building is intended to complement what presently exists our lean street and also takes advantage of the slope from the corner somewhere as it is down towards the waterfront because we do have a total of 49 and a half feet but again staying below the roof deck of the adjoining building to the right. Who is the architect on this? Nick Landry and he is on the call. Okay, tell us about those garage doors and how the parking is supposed to work. I did have an opportunity expressed to this lady that part of the design review these garage doors would have to be translucent. We are showing for illustration just to identify where the garage is but that is certainly something that will be created. We're lost. But the question mostly is that for such a small lock what is it 2076? That you have two cup cuts which takes away from the sense of pedestrian and there is another cup cut to the garage right next door. That is something that would be of concern to us. We are showing a total of four parking spaces. They would be tandem in nature since they would not be able to provide a different arrangement especially with the entrance way where we've located it. That was something that was raised during the community process. There was no specific objection to having the current kind of arrangement in this manner. More so because of the fact that there was no parking on the side of Orleans Street. But I certainly understand the concern over the pedestrian experience along that section of Orleans. Madam Chair, Mr. Lenz, I'm sorry to interrupt you but just on that topic as Bob D'Amico from BT is speaking on this one to your point the area for parking full cars is undecised and there must be a change into the curb cut design. Both curb cuts must be changed. This is what he's recommending. Any how are the plans Mr. Olek? The plans are okay. I had to say concerns about the curb cuts and the garage doors. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in part of this for also? Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. In the tramiling of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services we would like to welcome the recording support. The Office of Neighborhood Services Helen Abires, we're on January 14 where the applicant address most of the concerns of the abires and we also receive 12 letters of support from abires including one diamond abire. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Liddy Edwards. The councilor would like to leave this project at the discretion of the board. Thank you. Any any raise hands Mr. Ambassador? Yes, Madam Chair, two can't be. Yeah, it's two but I show off my nurse the question of Dennis. You've been muted. Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Happy New Year Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Dennis Sullivan at one Brigham Street in East Boston and I represent the Jeffery's Point Neighborhood Association. Our Neighborhood Association voted against this project with a vote of 14 in favor and 20 opposed. Among the reasons that was cited by residents supposing the project are the planned height of violating the current zoning code. Several residents in the Abutter radius subject to the extra height of the building and also that the plan building adds substantial density without adding adequate parking spaces. This is an in neighborhood which already faces a shortage of our parking. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here. There's 14 letters of support and that was the one letter of opposition. What should the Jeffery's point? Given that information may I have a motion please? Can I answer questions please? Relative to parking. Mr. Liddy, did you say there's no parking on that side of Orleans Street? Now, Orleans Street does not have parking on that side. The other side of the street does have parking and that was one of the considerations and looking at the curb Okay, may I have a motion please? I'm like a motion to approve with the design of real. Is there a second? Can we make both BPD and BTC design of you? Sure. I'm sure I'll second that motion. My question is in favor. Bye. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next cage. Calling DOA 106-8478-324-Sumna Street. Is it renovate and erective vertical addition with roof deck change arcades from a one family beauty salon to three unit residential dwelling and extend looking space into the basement. Violations, Article 53, Section 56, Osterie Parkings, and Sufficient. Article 2070, East Boston, I've gone. Article 53, Section 52, roof structure restriction. Article 53, Section 9, the additional law of areas and sufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the building height is excessive and fee. In Article 53, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address full of the record place. Thank you. Again, Madam Chair, members of the Board of Lens, behalf of the petitioner Bobby Jariz Amidas. Also with me, is there a proven off of the architect that this project? I will provide the abbreviated version, Madam Chair. This project is in the Jim Frees Point section of East Boston. It's a pre-existing residential and commercial use of the lower level. Our proposal would change the incoherency of the building to the three family dwelling, which is allowed conforming use in the district. In addition, we would be proposing a vertical addition to the existing two-story building and extending living space into the basement. With respect to the unit sizes, we're proposing one three bedroom at the lower level and two two bedrooms at the upper levels. The smallest size unit is 890 square feet and the three bedrooms of about 15 yards per feet total. The floor to ceiling basement height for the little space in the basement area is eight feet clear. We do have a full walk out to the rear portion of the property, which you'll see in the elevations that will be shown shortly. This proposal requires just a little bit of relief out of the code. The existing condition, as I said, are already pretty much not conforming with respect to setbacks. However, with respect to the vertical addition that we're proposing, we do require a side yard relief to the extent that we're not more than two and a half feet from the property line. With respect to the other violations, we were cited for height, but I would point out that the total height of the building upon the completion would be 31 feet nine inches. We do propose a roof deck. That roof deck is not accessed by a head house. There's only a hatch to access the roof deck, so we feel that we're in compliance with the height requirements. Is that roof deck only for the top unit? It is exclusive for the upper level unit. That is correct. And, Kanda, Kallad, can you show us what that basement proposed space is supposed to look like? Mark, how are the plans? Well, this is again a top top top top of the concrete change from the back. So, in the front, the basement is mostly glow grade in the back. It's walk out. Mr. Lindsey, keep building the neighborhood, the neighborhood building to the right, but there's a little space on the left. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay, so that's the other concern, which is just in terms of, so there's no windows on the right side because you're body up against another building and on the left side and the basement. You know, we can look at some of the elevations. I mean, there's going to be limited natural life. It's government off here. We would be providing three windows into the bedroom that is proposing basement closer to the front. And we would provide a window into the bathroom further more. The amount of area of those windows would be troubled what is required by the sanitation code. We have 26 feet of windows. Please, Derek and Richie, just make sure we stop seeing these these these ridiculous basement extensions. Okay, it's, you know, we've had a long day and we've seen just so many of these today that really try to shoe one living space into space. I don't know how it's going to walk. I mean, that front mass, the bedroom, what kind of light is it going to get in there? Yeah, it'll get mostly ambient light coming through the side yard there. So the one in the back, though, has a direct of large sliding window doors, excuse me, going out to the back. And if we look at the rear elevation, you'll see that there's plenty of light and plenty of view into that back bedroom. That back bedroom is going to be out. We go to the right window. The back bedroom is fine. That's what we are concerned about as a front bedroom. And I can't tell from the plans whether there's any windows in the front bedroom. Yes, there are. There are three windows in the front bedroom. They're not quite shown properly in that rendering. But if you go to the, the plan view there, you can see where the elevation, we go to the elevation that shows it as well. Well, wait a minute, I'm looking at the plan view. There's two in the front, correct? There's three in that front bedroom there. You'll see a third one in the top and the top section, Mr. Ehrlich, you're looking, the summer street is to the left side of your screen. The rear of the building is to the right side of your screen. So you can see the three windows right above master bed. Yeah, okay, so I buy something. And what's the floor to sell to sell height on those? I hope you're there. They are, if you want, two and a half feet tall. And there's already an emergency escape and rescue. Do we're directly into that space? So the still height of those, I'm just getting to that for you right now. Those are about five feet, five and a half feet. How can you do that? That's what you have to, it can't be more than 44 inches. Because we have a door that is going out of that bedroom directly into it, protected a stick that goes directly to the yard. So that's allowed under the code. So they have their own door directly out of there, into the, into the side, passageway there. So that compliance with the emergency escape and rescue. Plus the building will be sprinkled for 13 hour. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support us? Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lina Trameli with the Management Office of the neighborhood services. We would like to want them as many support during the community process. We're supposed to receive some support from our partners and from Jeffie's post-mary group with association. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards, the councilor, would also like to go on the record and support. That's Chair Eddie. Any raise? No, no, no, no. Dennis, so Dennis, were you pointed to speak on this proposal as well? No, I wasn't. Thank you. Jeffie's playing the association's support and this proposal. I'll speak on it. Thank you. Given that information may have a motion. I'm going to make a motion to prove the two providers. One is DPA design review and the other is that there's no no bedroom in the front part of the basement. Okay. Is there any second? I'll second that, Likers. All those in favor? Any opposed? Is anybody opposing? No, motion carries. Thank you very much. Madame Perkin, I just say really quickly there's a huge influx of Collins. So if anyone is interested in raising their hands in their calling it, it's press star at three. So be able to comment on the chat. Yeah, I wonder if that's for gas and coming up. Calling an ex-case, calling BLA, 101, 2022, 14 North Bennett Street. This is seeking to change our primary rectory to six residential units, also to erect a one-story addition and complete renovations. Violations article 54, section 10, Floody of Ratio's excessive article 54, section 10 usable open spaces and sufficient article 54, section 10, the radio dance sufficient article 54, section 18, the roof structure restriction article 54, section 21, Osterie parking loading requirement. Name and address. Congratulations. I'm Chair, I need to do it to myself, Likers. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. My name is Daniel Toscono, attorney at Long River, just kind of located at 11 Beacon Street in Boston. O-Pouncers on this on that echo. We represent George Corris, who's the owner of the property, and also on the line is Isaac Smith, who's the architect of this property. We have seeking to change the occupancy from what's existing, or currently, a rectory to a six-family residential dwelling. We had a one-story addition. This is 14 North Bennett Street, actually conceived. This is a view going towards the end of the street. This is a multi-family residential sub-discert. So when you're looking down, they're changing the use from the rectory to the residential unit. It's a allowable use. Looking at this particular slide, you can see it. We are the one-story addition. We are going to be still lower than the building that's to the right of us, which is owned by the Rome Catholic Church. And you see St. Leonard's Church at behind us. That's also much higher than the 55 feet in the building to the right is all the 60 feet in the building across the street. It is the former Columbus High School, which has been changed to condominiums many years ago. They've done an addition that's higher than the 55 feet as well. Going through our floor plan, Madam Chair, we have one on unit 1A, which is on the ground level. That's a one-bed or one-bed unit that's 667 square feet of living space on the other side of the property as unit 1B. That's a two-bedroom, two and a half-bed duplex. The bedrooms are going to be on the ground level. You'll have two bedrooms and two baths, as you see on the right side of God's screen, and down into the lower level, which is an existing living space already, which was already given by the rectory as a kitchen in living space. We are going to renovate that area and continue to keep it as a kitchen living space. Council, council, just give us a count of how many ones and the range of sizes. Sure. So the one bedroom, as I just described, is one bedroom, one bath at 667 square feet. We have two three two bedrooms, two baths that range over 1200 square feet, 1200 and 80 up to 3, 3, 130. Then we have two identical three bedroom two-bed units on the second and third level that are at 1580 split feet of space. Okay, now what I need clarification from is that looking at the view of the building from the street, will there be any units in the bottom, in the bottom part of that building that have those narrow windows? So, unit 1B is going to be a duplex unit, which will be the ground level, which will have the bedrooms, two bedrooms in the two baths. And now we'll go into the existing lower space, which is which will be renovated. It's already existing kitchen in living space that was used by the rectory and we're going to renovate it and keep it a kitchen in living space. Sailant height is 9 feet six inches and there are two means of the address down in that lower level. Okay. Mr. Olic, how are the plans? The plans are okay, but I have to question the choice of the blue metal siding for the penthouse. Who's that? Who's that? I think that that blue metal siding belongs to the building right next to it was its own by the Roman Catholic Church. We have agreed if the neighbors would like us to to paint it, but I know presidents don't like the blue, but but that is existing. That's not how I'm building. Okay. I can go through the violations if that's okay. I have to say I'm I'm relying on you, Mr. Olic, so the plans are okay. Any questions from the board? Plans are okay. You got to do something by your neighbor. We'll talk to the room. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board. This is John Romano from the mayor's office and neighborhood services. This project has gone through an extensive community process and a design and a redesign due to feedback from the community. After such time, we still received letters and opposition as well as the neighborhood council voting against the project and the residents association resubmitting their opposition. In contrast to this, we have received a significant number of support letters, including one from the Franciscan friars who oversee and manages the church as you just mentioned, Mr. Olic, and who directly abots the property. At this time, we'd like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Michael but any from the office of Austin City Council, a lady Edwards. The council would like to leave this project at the discretion of the board. Thank you. Anybody else with the right stands? Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have numerous letters of support and numerous letters of opposition. Okay. If I can, I'm Mr. Secretary Madam Chair, I think you should mention twenty-five letters. A lot of them being directed by the committee. I'm so hold on. May I hear from Nicole, please? All right, Ellen. All right. Okay, Ellen, you've been unmuted. Can you hear us? Thank you so much. Can you hear me? Yes, can you hear me? Can you put your name and address on the record and tell us for the Erin supporter opposition? Madam Chair, my name is Ellen Cume and I am from 21 North Bennett Street and I'm the former chair of the Board of Trustees for Columbus Court, which is a 32-unit condo building, which directly faces this property across that narrow street that you just saw. And I speak for many opposing abutters. I have an unusual request today, Madam Chair. Our attorney, Larry DeCara, was hit by a car late last week and we've had new developments where we need an attorney to help us. We've talked to the archdiocese. There have been new documents filed at the ZBA. Would it be possible to extend this to the future so that we can deal with these new developments? We have a lot of applications. First of all, how is Mr. DeCara? Well, the last we heard he was having multiple surgeries and in the ICU at Rhode Island Hospital. He was hit by a car while out walking and he has been with us every step of the way. Okay, hold on. Because honestly, okay, can I hear from Nicole, please? Hi and good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. I'm an evening of Nicole DeBennie. My family and I are owners at one North Bennett Court and we are direct abutters of the property under discussion. I'd like to go on record as being in a strong support of the proposal at 14th Bennett Street for many reasons. I think that the change of occupancy and the addition will have many benefits to the street. One bringing about an increase in property values. Additionally, I think it's going to clean up the existing building and add some liveliness to an otherwise dark and quiet street, especially that night. Also, given the great public transportation system that we have in the city, I don't fear any impact on parking that these units will bring about. And for those reasons, I support the proposal. Okay. Let's hear from Alissa. Alissa. Hi, Alissa Tuzano. 160 Salem Street. My property looks directly down North Bennett Street. And I've been a lifelong resident of the North End. I'm raising my two children here. And I am in support of this project. I think it will bring like Nicole said, life to this desolate street. At night, it's very quiet and it's dark and I, when you're my children, we always walk down a different street. It's just been vacant in the building itself. It's been kind of just empty for a couple of years now. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. So, Councillor, you've heard the objections. You have any response? I respond. Madam Chairman, this has been a long process. We've made numerous changes to the plans based on the concerns of the residents. We're never going to reach an agreement to the fact that they don't, it's misused in a few while. It's not a lot of abundance, but that comes to the meetings, that came to the meetings. They're opposed to the one-story addition that we're proposing. We've made numerous changes to other suggestions that they've made. And I believe that the changes we made are adequate and they're not negative. They will not create any negative impacts as a neighborhood. So, we'll move forward. We'll continue to work with the neighbours. We conducted a shadow study at their request. We've conducted some line of sites, some photos for their based on their request. So, we've done a lot and we've made numerous changes. In addition to the open usable space, we eliminated all our usable space and created a biologist's table. Thank you. Okay. So, given all this information, may I have a motion place? Motion to approve a PPA design review. Second. Second head to vote. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carried. Madam Chief, Mr. Board, thank you. It's your time. Thank you. Call to your next case. Call in BLA 112's 104136 Gaston Street. This is construction to change use from a one-failment to residential house to reentry for women being released from present. The Biological 50, Section 28, transitional housing is conditional use in a 3F 4000 sub-district. Name an address for the record please. Before we hear from the applicant, I just want to make a statement. This particular project was before the subcommittee and there were a lot of different opinions on it. We thought that it would make sense to bring it to the full board. I want to make sure that everybody that what we hear about is the project. Because this is looking for relief for certain actions from the zoning code. We are not at all saying that this is a use. We're not putting a value judgment on the use. We know it's a needed use, but we do need to understand how this project will work in the context of the community. Any comments that I will take will be purely on the use, the conditional use. The value I'm not looking for comments on the value or the need because we understand both already. I want to put that on the record really upfront and right away. I just want to clear, this is a conditional use in this district. So let's start off with the applicant. I am going to limit comments. I know we've received a lot of comments on both sides written comments. I want to make sure that we keep this manager all and completely focused on the land use implications. I will also work to limit testimony. I will hear from elected officials. I will hear from three people to speak in support and three in opposition. Please make sure that you do not send any notes privately. Everything needs to be to all panelists to be on the record. Okay, Ms. Thomas. Ms. Namaskar. Yes, Ms. Namaskar. I'm sorry. I have Cheryl Crawford here as well. Just wondering if she should stay on for 533 Washington. You know, I love that we will be in touch with that. Thank you, Cheryl. We will be in touch with you because we just need to re-advertise it. Thank you. Okay, thanks. So let's go ahead. The representative for the applicant, please what's your name and address on the record? Hi, I'm Anjana. Will you be sitting here? I'm Anjana. Can you hear us? Hi, Jessica. I can hear you all. Okay. My name is Aminuna Bosman. My address is 14 Stone Press Road, Madaplan, Massachusetts 02126. So tell us what's being proposed. What's being proposed is a conversion of a single family into a social rehabilitation facility for women coming out of incarceration. And tell us how many residents you expect to be in this transitional housing? 15 occupants, Madam Chair. And there's 15 occupants include a staff person or is that no? Thank you for asking that. It's 15 occupants and one staff person that stays overnight. So that's a total of 16. So that's 16 people all together? Yeah. Okay. And that number's going to go ahead. Okay, so that number will happen gradually once the facility opens. It's not all at one time, but that is the actual total based off of use itself as our four conversion. It's actually a lot up to 16 persons plus one staff member. So let me, I just need to get some facts on the right. And then how many daytime staff people will there be? There will be up to three daytime staff members. Okay. And then will residents be going to outside activities during the day and how will they go to outside activities? Most of the activities are going to be in the facility in terms of the educational and some of the career training and some of the therapy. I don't have all the information on that, but I can ask Stacy if she's interested to speak to that. But outside activities would be more working for the community to do any type of community projects, beautification projects. That would be the extent of those activities, and that would be more on a walking basis. Okay. And then we talk about 15 occupants. Will there be children? Or does this include children? No. These are all adults. These are single adults, essentially. Okay. It's a woman base for so many. Okay. And will this and, and is this run by a registered nonprofit that has experience in this field that's registered with a commonwealth? Absolutely. Stacy Borden has done this in the past and is extremely licensed and credential to do this work. And I believe on the last up committee meeting, she actually shared those licenses and credentials as she has to do this work. We need to know because this is these are additional members. That's right. That's right. Okay. So we need to start and just make sure that they understand everything. What we need to know is like, for example, and I'm just randomly, for example, picking pine street in, you know, they have a niche, they have programs, they're registered, etc, etc. Is that true of this of this provider? I'm sorry, Madam Chair. I stepped in, I stepped in earlier because I did not hear our representative at the time when Jessica was looking for a representative. So I want to make sure it gets deferred to the right person who's representing the client. And her name is Carol and she has her hand up. So Jessica, I'm going to use myself and allow her to keep them. She's on the team. Yeah. Yeah, she's a panelist and she can unmute herself. I just tried to unmute her. Carol, are you having it? Carol, can you? I can hear you, but apparently you can't hear me. We can hear you now. You are needed. Great. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Would you repeat the question? So I was asking because generally when we see facilities like this, we need to know that it's run by somebody who is, you know, somebody like, for example, and as I was saying before, somebody like Pine Street Inn that has a niche that has the insurance that has all the associate staff support in place to make this a functional program. I can speak to Stacey Bourdon's qualifications. She's been running reentry services for years within the community surrounding Dorchester. She has extensive experience in these and and has the qualifications. She's also a licensed alpha hall and drug counselor and is so can you can you name a specific addresses where she has where there are facilities that she runs? Yes, there is one relatively close by. It's families for justice. Stacey, if you I know you are a panelist too and if you want to unmute yourself and give some additional additional program addresses, that would be that would be great too. Happy New Year Madam Chair. This is Stacey Bourdon here. Yes, nice to see you again. Happy New Year to you too. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to be here. So Madam Chair, we went off as out of 100 Orange Street 100 out of Orange Street and partnership with families for justice as human. I've also worked in the Return of Citizens Office through Mayors Office under New Beginners Reentry Services. I've been doing this work extensively with Big Three Co-Wans and Gavin Foundation. I am a licensed commission and we have credentials with several insurance companies. Okay, so is what I kind of need to understand is that what is the organization behind you? If somebody has a relapse issue or something like that, what are the supports that you have that can immediately come and help somebody? Yes, ma'am. So we have Gavin Foundation is on standby. We do a lot of work and redirect our women that possibly we have some bring them into detox and redirect them back into the program. If this is a consistent issue, then they become discharged from the program and hope that they can get back into treatment and get back on their feet. We also have families for justice as human. It is a community support service that goes all the way out and will drive women to the different facilities if necessary. Okay, okay, so I know you're building then at 100. Okay, let's see. And tell us do you have parking space for your staff people? Will they be parking provided? Madam Chair, the residents are not permitted to have cars, so it's really a question of three parking spaces during the day for the three daytime staff members and one parking space at night. There's enough parking on street plus Gaston Street is situated between Warren and Blue Hill Ab and there is ample on street parking in both of those places. It's also accessible by rail, T and bus. Okay, Mr. Oh, like how are the plans? Can I find out if the board has any questions because both Marx and myself have the advantage of listening through the entire details. We just want to make sure that we've captured the information for the rest of the board. The street itself, Gaston is a two and three family dwellings. Some ones in there, it's a cut through between Warren and Blue Hill Ab. So I just go ahead. Any other questions? Yeah, I just got one question. The nighttime staff is the actual staff, right? It's not like resident. That's like a manager. This is like a paid staff possibly changing based on what day of the week and who's working type of thing. Yes, it will be a paid staff member there overnight, not a resident acting in any capacity. Okay, and will you have cofuse for your residents for the residents? Yes, there are cofuse. The Community's House has adopted a series of strict policies and procedures for the running of the house. The residents will be in clinical programs largely virtual between nine and five, and all residents will be in bed by 10. There is no roitering, and there is no alcohol, no drugs, no smoking, nothing on the promises and violation of any of those, Ken's rendered the resident accessible to expulsion. Go ahead. Next question. I'm so much familiar with places like this. Are you guys doing like visits on certain days? Will the visits be for like everybody? Because that could be problematic. Like parking and stuff. Yes, so the visits are limited to Saturday and Sunday only in two, four hour blocks, either between the hours of one and five or two and six. They must be approved in advance, and they have to, and they will be limited to two adults and children. Again, through the pre-approval process, we hope to be able to, we absolutely will be able to control traffic. We think some of these people will be arriving by public transportation, but again, we can certainly direct people to Blue Hill for parking if we perceive there's any issue with the parking on gas and street. Okay. One of the things that we need to be concerned off is about your siding decision, because one of the things that we understand is sometimes certain neighborhoods have an overabundance of treatment centers and things like that. So tell us a little bit about how you came up with your siding decision for this. I think overall that to the extent there are a number of these facilities in the area, we believe that these programs are reflective of the need within the community, and we're trying to help address some of these issues that are facing the community. There are publicly available statistics that demonstrate the disproportionate impact that incarceration has on Boston's low-income residents, its residents of color, and we're trying to put these, we're trying to cite this location in a neighborhood so that when the women are released, they're coming back home, and they are reintegrating themselves into this community. I'm going to turn it over to Stacey if she has anything. No, I think that's, I think you answered our question. Then the question is, do will residents come from the Suffolk County House of Corrections or from the Commonwealth? I don't know the answer to that, Stacey, can you weigh in please? Yes, Madam Chair, we have both partnerships with Suffolk's Housing Corrections and Frame and HandState Prison, the Milford Victory Office. So they'll be coming from both state and county. Okay, excellent. Okay. Any more questions from the board? Madam Chair, if I could just just for my own edification, is there a rough idea on the length of stay per resident? I guess I'm just curious about occupancy and if there will be vacant rooms and how that's determined and alike. So the program is designed for as an 18-month program. We fully expect that there will be some women who stay throughout that program. There may be others that peel off at certain points in time. But the program itself is geared right now for an 18-month program. And after the 18th month, after the 18th month, when there is a vacancy, it'll just be filled by another resident and so on. That's correct. There may be times where we anticipate that there will be times when the house won't be full. That these resident levels will fluctuate as people cycle in and cycle out of the program. Thank you. Okay. So let me just find out if there's anybody here to speak in support of this proposal. Madam's office of neighborhood services, would you like to speak in support? In a butters meeting, it was held on October 22nd 2020, support from elected officials as well as organizations and neighborhood. We received support from them. We also received roughly 55 signatures of support from residents, but we did hear opposition from director butters who believe the role quality area is being annotated with reentry services that are creating an impact on the community. We asked the group continue to work with the neighbors to address their concerns who would like to go and record them. We also did receive a letter of from the over-denounced gas-detonial bill of the federal association. Is that it be if they're only, and we often recommend that they possibly would like a good neighborhood agreement with the neighborhood to address situations like things along the lines of like parking, smoking, sideage security, and maintenance of the property. Thank you. Thank you. Any other elected representatives of elected officials to speak? Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Kevin Higgins with State Representative Liz Miranda's office. She would like to express support for the proposal at 36 Gouston Street. The applicant is negotiated and worked in good faith with members of the local neighborhood and has agreed to a community oversight with the neighbor committee. Although we hope from more time for residents to negotiate, we deeply respect their concerns and will continue to convene both the applicant and community members to ensure concerns are addressed. This applicant is not standing in opposition to residents, but instead believes that a member ground can be found. Rep Miranda asks the board to recognize the significant representation equity this applicant brings to reentry residential services for women being released from prison. And oversaturation is an issue that Rep Miranda is committed to working on the legislature in the session. Some progress was made in the recently passed housing legislation. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any representative from the State Councilor? Hi, it's Ms. Gennery representing President Janie's office at the moment. We are, um, have the comment. Thank you. Okay, now comment. Okay. Um, May I? Okay, so that's, so now, um, go ahead. Any? Madam Chair. Yes. Madam Chair, Secretary here. We do have numerous letters of support. We have also letters of opposition on the project. Okay. Um, now let me, uh, anybody here who has erased in. I want three people who are in support, please. Um, let's see, one, two, three, four, so there are five resans. I'm going to take you in order. Um, Eli Patterson, let's hear from you, either in support or in opposition. Hello. Uh, could you hear me? Yes, please put your name and address on the record. Uh, many Ms. Elijah Patterson. I love that 31 Juniper Street, uh, in 0-1-1-2. That is Dr. Roxbury. I'm speaking in affirmation of this project on behalf of myself. Oh, my God. Are you, are you in West Roxbury? Did you say? Roxbury. Are you in Roxbury? How far are you from this project? Oh, we're in the same district. So it's down to your street. Okay. You're down to your seat. Okay. Okay. Okay. But I'm speaking on behalf of myself as well as the organization Black Bank Massachusetts, which is a Boston based organization for lesbian, gay. Ms. Patterson, thank you. Um, let's move on to Deelia and James. Can you, Michele? Hello. I'm Madam Chairperson and the board of members. Thank you. My husband and I are opposed to this project. My name is Deelia Dowling. I re-resided 27 Gaston Street, which is directly across from 36 Gaston Street. We are opposed to this project. The main issue is the density. Their amount of residents that are opposed to for five bedroom single family home is, it's, it's a lot. And there's no robot robots, clothing, plant, and place that were addressed. In addition, there's no parking at all on that facility. When they had the open house, our parking spaces were taken and Ms. Boarding does propose a Saturday and Sunday family meeting. And the open house is an indication of what we may have to deal with. In addition, there's a high concentration already of these, of these types of homes. And none of the meeting has addressed public program is going to come, is going to benefit the residents and the community as a whole. Thank you. Yeah, I hear from Carol. Yes. You wrote? Yep. Good afternoon. I apologize. This is Mallory Hanora from Families for Justice Oceiling. I'm on my colleagues laptop. I just wanted to confer our support, our organization. Oh, God. Who is this? Who just popped in? This is Mallory Hanora. I'm on Jarell's laptop. We've been on the meeting for four and a half hours. I'm sorry. Sorry. I just was expecting a different voice. So go ahead, but your name and address on the rocket. My name is Mallory Hanora. I'm the executive director of Families for Justice Oceiling. We are at 100 are Warren Street Rocksbury, Massachusetts. Okay. And you're in one. Okay. May I hear from Elizabeth Rocker, please? We're supporting. Yes. Thank you. Elizabeth Rocker, please. Elizabeth, you've been unmuted. Yes. Hello. I'm a resident at 31 Junior Street Madame Chairwoman. I'm speaking in support of Kimmy's house. I'm also trying to speak as a representative of the Black and Pean Massachusetts, which is also a physically sponsored organization at 100 are Warren Street in Rocksbury. We are excited to have a welcoming and affirming option for recovery and reentry in our neighborhood because we have been failed by sober homes and treatment centers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Elizabeth. May I speak with Carol, please? I'm the attorney for the board. I couldn't get a question. Carol, no. Okay. Okay. So, um, so, um, so, um, Senator, can you, um, I think we have, we've gotten everybody. Um, my hand raised. What is this? This is Melissa Elo. I've been on for the four hours. I know. And we've been walking so hard in that time. So, please, but your name and address on the record and let's hear from you. Hi, my name is Melissa Elo. I live at seven Otis Field Street, which runs directly into Gaston Street. I am in full support of this program. I think she has addressed every issue, uh, regarding the treatment that will be held. The parking will never be an issue. Blue Hill Ave and Otis Field and Gaston. There's always parking. Um, we had a church that was on, that's on our street that used to fill up our street and there was still parking, um, on Blue Hill Ave. So, I don't think that's an issue. I think that what she's doing is much needed in the community and I fully support everything that she's doing. Hi. And then we have Michael Kuzo, uh, representing Project Ride in opposition. Um, thank you, been unmuted. I also know Laura wanted to speak, um, but Michael, you can hear us. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, Michael, just go ahead. Michael, close the project right. Uh, my office is at 320 Blue Avenue around the corner from the spot. Many neighbors have expressed concerns about the left. The parking problems that was caused by their event, their driveways were blocked and they did not get cooperation in getting that address. 16 people in that single family house. There's too many people given this spot, uh, that area. Uh, so those are some of the concerns of people on neighbors that raise. Okay. Thank you. At this point, we're going to, uh, Madam Chair, may I just interrupt for one minute. I need to clarify something for the record. Um, um, on, um, on the issue of density, um, in the interest of trying to work in good faith with the neighborhood, um, uh, group this morning, we agreed to reduce the initial number of residents in the house to 10 for the first year. And then the 15 would then, um, we would ramp up to 15, uh, in the years thereafter, but in that first year, we would, we would agree to 10, 10 people, 10 residents in the house plus one staff person overnight. Okay. Now we're going to, um, now, uh, just for the fall comment, please, um, some buster, um, actually know, you know, that's one thing I do need to do. Um, some buster, what are you saying that there are a large number of columns? Yeah. I'm sorry. I don't see anyone's hands raised. I was going to ask if people could press start three if they aren't looking to raise their hand, but I did not see a hand raised here. Let's give a minute. Anybody who's on the phone, please press start three if you're interested in speaking briefly. I also have Laura Younger, who's looking has been on a call all day. Uh, she's been unmuted. Go ahead, Laura. Hi, um, um, headbringer, please put your nip address on the record. Uh, Laura Younger, one collater park, which is, uh, part of the whole born, Gannett, Gaston, Otisfield, Betterment Association. It's a heartbreak, but we do not support this, uh, variants at this time. And it has nothing to do with the program, but the change of zoning to a transitional, conditional use is a major step for that residential neighborhood. And if you grant all the relief right now, the list of issues that we've raised, we have less of confidence of gaining any negotiated settlement to those. And so, uh, humanitarian aside, uh, if you think that it's only going to be public transportation, try on a Sunday waiting for the 45 bus coming down Blue Hill Avenue to get to that location. And if services are going to be rendered there, those folks are going to drive there. So as far as parking, it is an issue, but it's also, the fact that there's, we're in a time when we need to know the management, the COVID, the density, and yes, there are eight or nine transitional housing type of entities around there in a, in a walking distance. And it's not because of the need. It's because the large houses are being snapped up. So we're over concentrated in that. Those sites get variances at the drop of a hat. And the neighbors need real leverage to negotiate what happens in the community. So okay, thank you. May I, and will you call in using number 48? Yes. Okay. So I think we've had a good array of voices on this project. May I have any motion from, um, I'd like to make a motion to approve. After this petitioner only. Do we, um, let me just ask one more thing, because sometimes what we have done is ask applicants to come back in a year's time and give us a report and to hear back from the community of how operations have been in a year. Does that make sense on this project? Yes, I believe so. Okay. So there are two providers here. One is to this petitioner only, and that a year from now we anticipate hearing from everybody with an update to this board. So this approval is for one year until we hear from the, from, um, from the applicant. I'll second Mr. Regerios motion. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, everybody, for your patience. Now I'm going to get into the rediscussions for one o'clock. Madam Chair, I'm recusing myself from this case. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling BLA-1037522437 Frankfurt Street. Madam Chair, I have to recuse myself as well as matter. Okay, so there are two, um, two recuse holes. It means for the applicant to ever you are, you need, um, all five members of this board to be in support for, for it to move. Mr. Lynch. You, you can, Mr. Lynch, request a deferral until you have a board robust board. Madam Chair, if I may, for the record, Richard Lins 245 Sumner Street East Foss on the application or act, I'm not sure that we're going to get much different of a makeup of the board and be upon the changes we've made to this project. I'm confident that it warrants merit even with a five-member board at this point. Okay. Madam Chair, I'm going to call it into the record. Calling BLA-1037522437 Frankfurt Street. This is a Recta 4-unit residential dwelling. The violation of the article 2070. This is in the East Boston iPod, article 33, section 37, excessive FAR, and article 53, section 56, off street parking and loading. Damon, add your full-the-record police. Again, for the record, good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of board, Richard Lins 245 Sumner Street East Foss, and on behalf of the petitioner of only a capital, also with me is Eric Saferson, who is a project architect. In the interest of time, I'm going to ask that Ms. Folen jump to slide number seven, which shows the rendering of the proposed project in context. While she's doing that, Madam Chair, this project is located in, let's stick with that slide right there. This project is located in what is known as the corner enhancement district that's defined under article 53. It is certainly one of the most flexible zoning districts in the neighborhood. And one of the reasons why we elected the procedure to go forward is this project is essentially as a right use that conforms with all the dimensional requirements in article 53 with the exception only of FAR. The parking violation that is cited is based upon the fact that the calculation at four units comes out to 4.5 parking spaces. We do provide four spaces, which is one space per unit. And as I indicated, this project is the result of about a year and a half of work with conversation with the neighborhood and multiple modifications to address specific concerns, not the least of which was the height of the building, which is now below 35 feet. The number of units which originally started out as nine is that out of four in the number of parking spaces ratio, which is at one to one unit. As I said, each of the requirements relative to setback have all been met. And I'll walk through those briefly. The unit sizes, and again, this is in response to what we typically hear in the neighborhood. A very generous two and three-bedroom unit sizes with the two bedrooms at around 920 spare feet and the three-bedroom is large, just 1220 spare feet. We felt that that was an important component for a residential neighborhood such as this based upon commons and we're heard. And that is the reason why the FAR is excessive. With respect to the corner and hands-on district madam chair, there is no minimum lot size. However, we do have 3,000 square feet, which is more insufficient under the code. Our lot with is at 50 feet. And we do have setbacks on each side of this property at 3.5 feet. Thank you so much for all that. Is there roof deck proposed? There is a roof deck and it is accessed by hatch, so no pet house is being proposed with respect to the roof deck. Okay, Mr. O'Leak, how are the plans? The plans are okay. I guess the one question I have, probably pull it back up. The maneuverability of the parking spaces. Yeah, so that's a good good question. One of the things that we specifically asked ISD to consider, because I know Mr. Domingo occasionally cites that as an issue. And we did ask ISD to review that. We were not signed from a maneuverability. We actually got one step further in a higher-end engineer. And I do have those slides included here that confirm the maneuverability works with the parking layout that we've implemented here for this property. Mr. Lig, how can you use the Volvo? I defer to the engineer on that. He's not on the call, but I believe that that was the average size vehicle that was being utilized. I'm sorry, I apologize. Not my call, Mr. O'Leak, I agree. Maybe pulled to the American factory. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this report also? Good afternoon, Madame Chair and members of the board. Lina Drammeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on the right-hand support. The Office of Neighborhood Services received a result of a position from a barren's base on every year, excessive, density and lack of parking on a dead end suite. But however, this is a transit accessible development located right next to Buddha Island Station. This project has got to an extensive community process for almost a year and a half where the Office of Neighborhood Services held three a barren's meeting where the applicant worked to make the proposal less impactful and address most of the concerns of the a barren's. We've used the number of units from 9 to 4, the number of stories from 4 to 3 and the height of the building from 43 feet to 34 feet and also includes the parking from 0 to 4. So we also received 16 layers of support, properties including six direct barren's on the rear and the left of the property and as well members of the harbor of the neighborhood association. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, secretary here, we have numerous letters of support and numerous letters of opposition. Okay, Ricardo. Thank you, Madame Chair. Good afternoon. Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The Councilor would like to go on the record and opposition to this proposal. And do you know what the opposition might be based on? Yeah, we received numerous letters of and you know calls emails from a butters in the area about their concerns regarding the density and the impact of on parking that this proposal would have on a dead end street. Okay, thank you. Madame Chair, just briefly, the question, the issue of opposition also may have a lot to do with the fact that this was a larger project, you know, originally proposed. We have made substantial reductions in the size of this project. Yes, that happens. Karen, go ahead. Thank you, Chairwoman. Good afternoon.