 I am. Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for July 24, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. For members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives. The low pop-ups mess me up. Okay, members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meeting, in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials represent as well, elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise in lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, where the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Ms. Bette Veraza. Good evening, Madam Chair. Present. Good to see you. Seeing the floor is the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. For the hearing schedule, 4.5 PM for today, first case we have is case B-O-A, 167-456-1 with the address of 18 to 20 press way of growth. If the applicant and or their representative of present, will they please explain to the board? It looks like that's all right. Yeah, we just sent a request to unmute you, Henry. Make it a panelist. Hi, all. Can you guys hear me, OK? Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, my name is Henry Sanchez. This is my proposal. I currently live at 18-20 press way road unit 4. So it's the left hand side building that you see on the screen here. It's a two building condominion homeowner's association. There's two units in my building. Again, the 18 side, three units on the number 20 side. And really our project is just looking to just get more outdoor space. There really is no common area that's accessible or belongs to us. The middle kind of area that you see between the two buildings is a courtyard area that is exclusive use for units two and units one, which are the lower level units on each of the buildings. Our unit is on the second and third floor of the left hand building. And we there, like I said, there's no common area. There's no kind of backyard. It's just kind of a high ground existing retaining wall with some trees in the back. So just looking to get a little bit more sunlight and enjoy the outdoor space in the couple of months that we do have here in the Northeast. And again, it's just my wife, myself, my son here that lived with us. So not a lot of people that are going to be using it up there. At the moment, you know, kind of the design we're going for is to follow the overall shape of the building. So not exactly square, but it's about 800 square feet and then the plan would be to have kind of a see through our goal up there, just to let a little bit of sunlight through, not looking to block, you know, sunlight for any of the neighbors or anybody else around by any means. But I think that's it in a nutshell. You confirm how far the deck is set back on the front side? Yeah, I believe in I'll invite Eric, who helped me with the plans, but I think it's about 10 feet if we scroll up a page, maybe. To the prior page, I believe. Maybe one more. Yeah, this one here. So on the top right. So it's about, I can't see that exactly. Is it maybe it's about three and a half feet from the exterior of the building. However, the square rectangle you see on the right is the front balcony that we have. And that's where the building exterior runs to. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, there's no questions. It's good that you asked regarding the set back because I see that the loss in planning is recommending that the deck is set back at least five feet from the edge. Do you see that being a problem? And maybe this is more to your architect, Eric. Yeah, thank you, Hansi. This is Eric, the architect of the project. No, I don't think that would be an issue at all. Being set back five feet from the edges of the roof except for in the area right around the staircase. Okay, great. And then they're also recommending that the pergola be removed. Do you see an issue with that as well? Yeah, that's that that'll be fine. We can look some alternative kind of shame. Maybe an umbrella, but no permanent structure. We can think. Yeah, that's usually and and as you know, typically, um, they're recommending that you access the roof roof deck through an internal stair versus the next tier. And I do see that there is a possibility to have an internal stair for kind of private access. And you can either do a roof hatch or an access. Like a head held access. Yeah, we definitely contemplated that initially. The challenges the level below the stair kind of either eats up a big significant portion of the living room in the kitchen. So we were hoping to extend up from the stair, which would be as is shown on the exterior, but I guess the answer is to the owner, but that is the reason we chose to try and do a stair along the side of the building instead of Yeah, but it looks like it looks like you have a vertical core and looks like you can tie into that potentially and maybe you will need to move the location of the roof deck for that to for that to work. So it doesn't eat up half of your living space, but I think these things can be worked out. So I'm met him chair. I'm kind of I'm okay with you know, I don't have any further questions or clarifications. Sounds good. Would that may have public testimony? We don't have any hints run. Fence Ray three now. Okay, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time of mayor is obviously going to refer to the judge from this board. Oh, and I said, running a butter's meeting on April 9th. A long time ago, the applicant was able to answer questions that residents had. They went on to connect with the Orient Heights Civic Association. Presently we're unaware of any concerns at this time without refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? Yes, Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with three provisels. One being that the pergola be removed. Second being that the roof deck be set back five feet from the edge. And then lastly that the architect works with BPD and the design of an internal stair and to provide access even through a roof hatch or a headhouse. Is there a second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Beberaza. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 1728524 with the address of 389 Maverick Street. If the applicant and other representative are present, they please explain to the board. Yes, hello, Madam Chair in everyone else. My name is Veronica Robles and we're here to present 389 Maverick Street. It's a small restaurant and we want to open up and we want to use it as is with everything we've not planning any renovation. The only thing that we are doing is putting our sticker on the side outside outdoors and and that's why we're planning to do. We run we run a small food business selling Mexican street corn for the past six years. And we're being used in commissioners commissioners and we we see this as an opportunity for us to have a place where we can prepare and sell our Mexican street corn. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office deferred to the judge from this board. Our office does not anticipate any community concerns related to this modest proposal with that would refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. That may have motion. I'm sorry, is there another hand raised? No, no additional movements. Great. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval. May I have a second? Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better baraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Next we have case BOA 171 5590 with the address with 30 Roberts Street. If the applicant can't enjoy their representable presence, would they please explain the case? Yes, hello. My name is Anna French from French to D architects in Charlestown. This is a three and a half story brick row house. Oh, and it's rotated. I apologize. Brick row house in Charlestown on Harvard Street. The project is a single family and is currently being renovated. Variants that we, the variants that we're seeking are around the extension of a dormer, so widening a dormer at the rear and then using the basement as living space. The, we met previously with both Alexa Pinard, Planning Department and Shelley Blanchard of the Landmarks Commission. Both saw no problem with the addition of the dormer. It does not sit on a public way. And this, you're seeing here, is the existing condition. The front is the elevation on the left. The rear is elevation on the right. If you go to the next slide, you'll see what the proposed change is. Sorry, one more. I don't know why that's happening. There we go. And you'll see that the front has not changed. That it's the restoring of the exact dormer that already exists. And at the rear, we've taken the existing dormer and repeated it three times in order to create that larger dormer, but setting back the form between so that it is not one large shed, but instead varied by this. We had a meeting with, and there have, the neighbors have been very excited about this. And if there's any other questions I can answer, we did have some supplemental photographs if that helps. The general condition here on Harvard Street is all of the, all of the front facing houses have maintained their historic character and the existing dormers. And then if you look to the images where we're showing the rear, this is very characteristic of many of the houses in the row, where you will see this kind of shift happening just in the next slide or two. We sort of outline it. You can see the variation that has happened over time on slide. I believe six and seven. Are there questions from the board? Yes, if you can just go to the slide ambassador to the front view, where you can see the front windows. Yeah, right there. Of the front of you, there's like, oh, yeah, that one. This one, perfect right here. Can you just describe what you, you're doing in the basement? Are you going to do a habitable room or is it just storage? What's the, what's the function of the basement use? Yes, of course. It's essentially a family room and a laundry room. I'm picking up our people. Yeah, that's right. Thank you. Azus, yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry. I can't. Yeah, of course. Yeah, I was going to just say, you to anyone else, please. It is the addition of a family room, a laundry room, and a bathroom. Okay, so it's not going to be a habitable bedroom. No, no bedroom. Absolutely. Yeah, I don't have any further question. I was just kind of concerned with the window locations and not having like an egress, but it's fine. No further questions. Thank you. Thank you. Will that may have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Board members. Siggy Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the OIS community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on June 3rd, at which there were four butters in support and no concerns were raised. Our office is aware of six letters of support from a butters that have been forwarded to the board. But that background, we defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Azus, is that? Yeah, we have our partner son. The person with the K, with the, I'm going to unmute this person. It's Kevin Joyce. I'm sat. Okay, well, okay. So put your hand down. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Yes, Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1729339 with the address of 78 to 80A Salem Street. If the applicant and other representative are present, would they please explain to the board? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, William Faroullo, attorney on behalf of the applicant 7880 Salem Street. That's not them. The Boston, we're requesting the removal of the proviso for this petitioner only. Proviso was placed in 2011 when a single story building was converted from a hairdressing salon to a restaurant in 2013. The building had a second floor added for an extension of the restaurant and we were before the board on that as well. The restaurant has always been and will continue to be a sit-down restaurant. The takeout is the normal accessory takeoff for a sit-down restaurant. The difficulty with the proviso naturally is it's difficult both for the landlord in terms of new tenancy and the individual who's buying the restaurant to go through the process with the proviso for the new restaurant since there's no change to the operation. So with that, we're asking that that provides will be removed. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns. The applicant has been in touch with both civic associations active in this area. Then information will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Is better baraza. Yes. Shareable. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B08, 1709052, with the address of 32 St. Stefan Street. If the applicant gets an order, they represent the number of present. Would they please explain? Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Cameron Merrill on behalf of Kyle Holden and David Bedrin, the applicants. What you have here is a headhouse not connected to a roof deck. This is for access from this renovated brownstone. It's been about a year and a half or so of renovations. And this is the final step. They need safe and easy access to get to the roof. And this was the first time we've ever seen a roof. And this was the proposal they thought would be appropriate for this location. It will be complemented by a skylight in the roof as well. So this will brighten up the top floor of their home. Provide them to get to the roof, which currently does not have interior access as needed. We respect the planning decision to recommend this go to ONS. Excuse me to the BPDA for designer view. And we appreciate the comments they made in support of this project. Ultimately, we think this is a good fit for the neighborhood. It is set back from the roof. And the neighbor does have roof structures as well. So it's not uncommon in the neighborhood. And there will be little impact on the abutters. This does not block any views or shed any shadows or impact on the abutters, as called up for by the relevant condition in the zoning code. Ultimately, it's under the allowable height, but because of that one provision, we are here for that conditional permit. Any questions from the board? So it's interesting that it's being called like a bulkhead. And in the description, it says install a greenhouse on the rooftop. It does look like an additional structure, like a greenhouse. I'm going to make a recommendation that we defer this to the full board. It is called a bulkhead, a greenhouse. I think there's a place where it's identified as a salarium. I don't think there was any intention behind what it was called in the engineer's reports. They do refer to it that way, but it is a structure on the roof. Okay, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Thank you. I will just take public testimony and we can go to the motion. Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on May 28th, at which multiple butters were supportive. The Fenway Civic Association is in support. Our office is unaware of any concerns with the proposal. With that background, we defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you. Would that have a motion? Yeah, Madam Chair, just because the project sits on groundwater conservation overlay district, it sits on a neighborhood design overlay district of the Fenway neighborhood. And that's probably why it was recommended for BPD oversight. I'm going to make a recommendation that the project goes in front of the full board. So motion to defer to the full board. Is there a second? Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Ms. Bedar-Baraza. Yes. Chair votes yes to motion carries. Thank you very much. Which is Tuesday. I don't know if he needs a date, but I think we need to let them know for which board hearing they can present in front. So I think it does need to be stated. Yeah, it needs to be stated. Oh right. Is Karen who's there with you? Mr. Stambridge. Yeah, I think it was. It's Karen. The next hearing is this Tuesday, July 29th. Thank you. Yeah, so if that works for the applicant, I can make a motion that it be deferred to this Tuesday board hearing. Thank you. I think we're going to need a second motion. Okay. Karen, I just stated the date. Thank you. Thank you. We'll see you then. Next, we have case B.O.A. 169-7496. With the address of 12R Union Avenue. It's the applicant and or the representative president. They please respond to both. My name is Shane O'Brien. I'm the applicant. Can you speak up? Oh, sorry. My name is Shane O'Brien. I'm the owner applicant. Okay, please proceed. The application is an ADU in my backyard. I'm calling it a pool house, but essentially an ADU, a two-story unit. At the back of the block. It's two-story flat roof. It's about 800 square feet. The first floor mostly would be storage. The second floor, which is essentially one room studio. That's connected to my apartment. It's not going to be a third unit on my property. It's basically an extra space for me. What else? Yeah, bye. So can you just give us a sense of those violations listed? How much are you exacerbating them? So like, rare yard insufficient, side yard insufficient, excessive, etc. Can you just? High is because 15 feet is an extra ADU. So I'm at 20 feet. Some five feet over the allowable height for an ADU. The side yard is five. So I'm at five feet from the side yard. Allowals 10 feet. That five foot, that's a fence and beyond that fence is a parking lot. So it's a pretty open space. Essentially it's a 10 car parking lot. The rear yard is more feet from the rear lot line, which is the allowables 10 feet. Obviously way over that. The property beyond that floor feet is three feet. It's essentially a 21-story, 21-foot, center block where I was about three feet from their property line. So I thought that was my father's being considered as good as that could be, I guess. I was trying to keep it away from the left hand side, a lot line because there is a neighbor there that's pretty close. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? Again, I find this to, you know, the subcommittee is to really review kind of small alterations, small projects. When I see a project that it's an additional unit, when you, when, when I see a project that is at least one, two, three, four, five, six, six violations, especially one that has to not have two or more dwellings on a lot, I see that to, that those projects should go in front of a full board. So I'm going to make that recommendation again, because I think with the full board, I can ask specific questions to BPD, because I don't think they're on, on line right now. Are they? Secretary, how else is that? Jeff Nielsen is on or anyone from BPD? I don't see anybody. Yeah, so I think I would like, and it gives a, it gives an opportunity for neighbors and the butters to be fully notified. And, and, and it's just a better kind of due diligence on a project of the scale. So I'm going to make floor, I'm going to make also that recommendation that this goes in front of a full board. We have a full hearing next week, but it was better, but that is fine. Let's take public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and even with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, at this time, the mayor's office, we can defer to the judgment this board. Some back information, the community process, Oh, and I said, we're on a butters being on April 17th. Only two butters were in attendance. One voice concerns over the lot size and the setbacks, it suggested that the applicant adjust their plans. The other are butter and attendance, voice support proposals, stating how will not affect the adjacent property. Our next proposal went on to meet with the Jamaica Plains Zoning neighborhood council, which wanted to support the proposal. To, at this time, our office is not received any further community feedback. I would defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Then, Chair, would the cabinet additional comments? Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion to defer this to the next hearing, whether it's a full board in front of us. Is there a second? So, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Ben Brasza. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. And that's for Tuesday, July 29th. Thank you. So this coming Tuesday, come back? Yes, sir. Can I ask you is the concern that it's because it's a, it's adding a unit to my yard or. I'm going to let Ms. Ben Brasza answer because you're. But, so, you know, in the descriptions, it says construct a building in a real law, including a pool house and a second storage dwelling unit. So, to me, it sounds like it's much larger than the conception of an ADU unit. ADU unit. And so, I just want a little bit more of an opportunity where my, where my colleagues and I can have a discussion. Because what happens is if, if they're at the subcommittee, there's three of us. So, you have to have unanimous. Yes, for the project to move forward. So, I'm giving in so that we don't, so that it does not get denied because I might need further, further kind of discussion with boss and planning in regards to whether they consider this. Within the scope of an ADU, I'm giving that opportunity to, to ensure that the project does not get denied just because I don't have clarity of how they're defining an ADU versus a, a new building that violates the zoning laws, which says you're not supposed to have two buildings in one law. So, I think it's about interpretation of what ADU is. Does that, that's why you might go right. Does that explain my concern? Yeah, we don't have the CA here to respond to, to those concerns. So, that's, let's, so we're, we're airing on the side of caution. So, we'll say. Okay, so, so next we have case BOA 168, 677, with the address of 294 West Street. If, yeah, can't end or they represent our president, will they please explain the case to the board? Hello, my name is Vanessa McCarthy. I'm from Place Design and I am representing the homeowners. One of the homeowners is on the call as well. Our project is an existing non-conforming structure. It's currently a shed that is set back about 75 feet from the property line, close to the back of the yard. Like I said, it's existing non-conforming. The current structure is about 1.7 feet from the side property line. And it has fallen into disrepair over the years and is no longer usable. And the homeowners would like to tear it down and rebuild on the same footprint. We've made every effort to have a minimal impact on the neighborhood and make sure that it matches the design aesthetic of the neighborhood. And we are here because we have three violations. I am contesting those violations because after reading through the zoning more thoroughly, the first violation was the side yard set back. And as I mentioned before, it's existing non-conforming, which according to the bylaws, Article 69, Section 31, allows it an existing building existing on the effective date of the article and not conforming to the applicable dimensional requirements. May never the less be altered, we're enlarged, provided that such non-conformity is not increased and that any enlargement itself conforms to such dimensional requirements. Our property, like I said, is our structure is being built on the same footprint, so we are not enlarging it, we are not increasing any non-conformity. So we don't feel that we are violating this bylaw. The second violation was excessive building height. According to, so the zoning bylaws state that maximum height of 15 feet, and again, when I looked into the definitions to understand what the demarcations of the building height is measured from, our shed structure actually falls under a separate definition of building height because it's not abutting a street. The building height by definition is the vertical distance from the grade to the mean level of the roof slope. However, our building is not abutting a street. Our building is not abutting a street and is measured from a grade line from 20 feet away from the grade at the building line, which actually increases our height by one foot three and a half above where the grade is at the building footprint. By these definitions, our building height is actually 15 feet. So we are not, again, violating any zoning bylaws. The third violation notes that an eight foot setback is required between structures and it sites Article 69, Section 30.7, but in that section there was no mention of this requirement, and I couldn't find that within any of the bylaws, within the entire ordinance, there was a mention of two or more dwellings and a distance between those two or more dwellings, but this is not a dwelling, there is no plumbing, it's not habitable. So again, I feel that this one is not appropriate at all to our building and the zoning. And I think that concludes the violations that we've had and how we feel about the results. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? What's the use of the second story? And you said it's 17 foot, 17 foot, 7 correct. And it depends on where you're measuring it from. The overall building height, I can pull that up. The use to get to that, the use is all storage. The first floor is there's two floors, they're very short levels. The first floor is mostly for outdoor storage. The second floor is for overflow from the house storage. So it's really just, it looks, it's made to look really nice, but it's really just a glorified storage shed. And the existing shed is also was used for storage? Correct. Yes. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. We have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, to sign the Mayor's Office deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information, the community process, ONS had hosted in a butters being on April 1st that was lightly attended. A butters present asked questions regarding the construction time frame as well as the height. The proposed shed, the applicant was able to address those questions. Next proposal went on to the Hyde Park Central River neighborhood group, who voted to support the proposal. To this date, our office received one letter of support from the HPCR, which we referenced, which said that they were in favor of increasing the appeal of the property without the deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I like to put forward a motion of approval. It's really an expansion of an existing non-conforming accessory use. I don't see any issues with it. Is there a second? Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thanks. Better browser. Yes. Here will it's just the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B O A 170-0082. But the address is 34. Is the applicant in to a representative of the president? Will they please explain to the board? Hi. How you doing? Can you hear me? I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Okay. How are you? How's everyone? Good. Thank you. All right. So our project is pretty much raising one side of the roof from gable to a donor and just creating more storage space upstairs. Again, we're not touching the footprint. We're not going outside. You know, the footprint of the existing home. Again, it's just a shed dormer that's we're adding to the one side of the low second floor. How much square footage does that add? Yeah, it's up to about 400, a little over 400 square feet. I have nothing to be exact. Thank you. Questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office would defer to the judge from this board. Some back information in the community process. Oh, and us have the applicant circulate flyers to a butters with a 300 feet, who did not receive any feedback from those butters. There's also no active civic association in this area. So that concluded the community process. I'll run away with any concerns without referring to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. There's second? There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. There's better brawzo. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good night. You too, bye bye. Next, we have case B-O-A-1703635 with the address of nine cutter road. It's the applicant and the way they represent of a president. Will they please explain to the board? Hi, good evening. I'm Scott Brady. I'm the architect for proposed renovations and addition at nine cutter road looking to you, Madam Chairman, and the committee for your consideration. What we're simply doing for John and Erica and their children, he's a Boston firefighter, is to increase the size of their very modest home by adding a second floor. The existing house does not conform to the required setbacks. We would not be increasing the nonconformity by adding the second floor with one caveat. We are looking to gain a little extra square footage in that addition on the second floor by cannellivering the rear elevation, or into the rear yard, which mostly conforms except for, if you look at the site plan, two little corners. And just for the integrity and aesthetics of the house, we would like to be able to have those two little corners to have the full rectangle for that second floor. And it really is as simple as that and I'm available for any questions you may have. Thank you. Questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on May 6th at which no concerns were raised. The West Rocksbury neighborhood councils in support of this application with that background. Our office differs to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Will that may I have a motion? And I'm sure I like to perform motion. Sorry, I second norms. Thank you. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I appreciate it. Thank you. And next we have case B.O.A. 169-9328 with the address of 11 Durland Street. If the applicant and or their representative present, would they please explain? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services with the Maryland Address of 130 Beach Road Orleans Mass, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is a building, a single family home which was constructed in 1939. As the board is aware, the Boston zoning code was enacted several years later in 1956. The project is cited for a front and rear yard insufficiency. The site plan, if we could stay with the site plan, shows that the front yard setback to the covered entryway is 6.3 feet. And the rear setback is 9 feet. The current code requires a front yard setback of 20 in a rear yard setback of 40 feet. Again, this is a pre-existing legal, non-conforming setback. The proposal, if we could scroll down to the next site plan, shows a full DOMA replacing the existing front and rear partial DOMA's plus an addition of a deck which does not, the deck does not require any zoning relief. It is the front and rear setbacks. The full DOMA's would create additional living space for the growing family. There would be three bedrooms plus an office. For further detail on the plans, if the board wishes, I would ask the architect to review the plans with the board. Bond, are you available? Well, let me start with other questions from the board. Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted an abutters meeting on May 14th with four abutters in support and no concerns raised. The Brighton-Alston Improvement Association is the active civic group in this area, which is in support of the application. With that background, our office differs to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may add that there was enthusiastic support by the neighbors, plus Councillor Brennan has submitted a letter to the chair in support of the requested relief. Again, there is no enlargement of the existing legal conforming, nonconforming setbacks. Any other raised hands? No, Madam Chair, we don't have any additional comments. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Secretary. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better brazo. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. I will see you on Tuesday. Yes, have a good evening. Have a good night. Good night.