 you you you you Mr. Jolary Hambs One election the open meeting law. Inactive by the legislature last year, the new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panels are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those in the videos with the process to the project. Please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. The host sees your hand who will receive a request to unmute yourself so that yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive your request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Schupper. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair and President. Good morning. I will turn it over to you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first item on the agenda this morning is the approval of the hearing minutes from April 25th. Can I raise? May I have a motion? I'll make the motion to approve the minutes from April 25th. I have a motion. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Vue Ro. Yes. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Next we have the extensions at 930. First we have case B08104-6127. The address being 201-241-241. Stuart Street. This is the, I believe this is the second request for any extension. The first request is the second request for any extension. Which is due from July to July 11th. And the, excuse me. So there is a, That's the, sorry, Mr. Stembridge. The board originally granted relief on August 20th, 2020. And granted one extension of this relief expiring on August 20th, 2023. So this is the applicant's second request for one year extension. Yes. Thank you. Is the applicant present? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board of the colleague, Ms. Soss, I'm coming forward the applicant. The developer is pursuing its additional permits and approvals for the project. In the past year, we have submitted a draft tap on to the BPDA and are working with the BPDA to finalize the same. Our CMP has been submitted for approval. Our APCC application was approved last month. In fact, this morning, some members of our team are meeting with the BPDA to discuss and finalize the street scheme plans after which we will be filing our PIC submission. And we're also simultaneously working on submitting our applications for the amended garage permit and inflammable license in the coming weeks. And so we are actively and diligently pursuing our additional permits here. And therefore, we have requested a one year extension until August 28th, 2024. And if anyone has any questions, we are available. Thank you. Thank you. That was a lot of outfits you're going through. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, Madam Chair. I'm sorry, was that a question? Okay, hearing none, they have a motion. I'd like to make a motion to grant an extension to August 28th, 2024. May I have a second? Did you second, Mr. Shepard? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Rueh? Yes. Chair, also votes yes, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. First, we have VIA 119 293. The address being 23 Newton Street. Along with that, we have Casey VIA 119 2938. With the address being 25 Newton Street. The board of visually granted this relief on August 13th, 2021. So the relief remains valid until August 13th of this year. This is the applicant's first request for one year extension of both cases. And we should decide to extend the extension if we so. Is the applicant present? Yes, I'm here. Thank you. Can you just let us know what your needs for the extension is and where you are in your process progress? Absolutely. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. It was, I received approval two years ago during, we just joined the pandemic. I was home as a teacher with my two toddlers and just financial reasons and very busy. So I didn't have a chance to address everything. I have had updated by our sprints. So I did, as far as the process getting papers ready, I just haven't been able to get everything ready until, you know, as of recently, really getting things started with the last six months or so. So the one year would be very helpful. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in Nunnery, I have a motion. I have to perform motion to grant extension to our 13th, 2020. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Langen? Yes. Ms. Niuro? Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next, we have case BOA. 843335 with the address being 42 Chestnut Street. This is the third request for an extension. The most recent spot will expire on August 7th of this year. As you're just the applicant president? I'm Adam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is Ian R. Card, from the law firm, I'm an employment fish at 155 C.C. Or, or, or, or, Boston. For us, it's really been, you know, slow down from the pandemic and getting an architect on board, they can help shepherd us through the Big and Hill architectural commission process. So, we've engaged with an architect, but apparently the backlog is such that they're having trouble getting to our matter and attending to our smaller project and be, I suppose, to some others. And our client is actually looking to see if they can get a new architect on board to move it along quicker. But we're still, you know, we still got some process out of us with the, you can help architectural commissioners, you know, they want to make sure that we can, and we're working with them. And we're working with them. I understand. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, man, of motion. I'd like to make a motion to grant these things until August 7th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Chair, both yes as well, motion carries. Take a seat. Good up. And before we proceed, I just want to remind applicants that we have a five member board today. Applicants have the option to defer to a leader. If all board in the room, repeat this throughout. Thank you. Next, we will have the 930 units for groundwater conservation over the district building. We have case B-O-A, 146, 3-0, 4-3, with the address being 1-01, Chester Street. Is the applicant and the representative president? Yes. Good morning. I'm Adam Chair, members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. And this is a G-Cod review for underpinning work that we would repairing the pylons for this building. And as part of that, we're installing a stormwater recharge system as well. Mr. Seminelli, are you present? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board. Good morning, Ms. Weller. Chris, you can submit. I'll go to the trust. And we have both the Boston Artists for approval and no armletter from the applicant. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Can you move that? May I have a motion? May I have a motion to approve? May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Lannam? Yes. Mr. Hula? Yes. Chair also wrote yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have the room for a building or building code. That case being BOA 147-5953. The address being 169 Bavric Street is the applicant and or the representative. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm the board. Attorney Lawrence Katina from Richard Lins' office of the business address at 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. We're going to be requesting a deferral on this one. The ASC seems to be a notice issue and an update to the building code refusal. So we need to get that sorted out with ISD. Thank you. Chair, this last one. Yes, sir. I would like to suggest the August 29th at the deferral date. Okay. Does that work for the applicant? I believe it if there's a because of the notice issue we'll have to. Yes. Okay. Would that have a motion? I make a motion to defer to August 29th, 2024. May I? You mean 23? 23, I'm sorry, 23. Thank you. May I have a second? I'll second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shuppard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Liu-O. Yes. Chair, I'll also vote yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Actually, the ones at the hearing is for 9.30. 7.30 a.m. So just as a reminder, we have a five-member board today. Applicants have the option to defer to a later date here and date to be heard by the full board. Sorry, Mr. Stembridge. That's quite a right, manager. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Are there any deferrals from the 9.30? To be requested from the 9.30. Hi. Is that a hand raise, Mr. Trisco? Yes. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Chair, members of the board. The community meeting voting that was supposed to happen for my case, which I'm doing is the first one coming up. Was suspended last month? So I won't be at the federal. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Sorry. If I'm not my wife bim B. I am sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. So that was supposed to be a little begun. 13 DI. Presence. Gray Street. Yes. Okay. Okay. So that was supposed to be only for the . It might be someone if I put it. Mr. Stembridgeist, you waiting for the record for? Oh, sorry. Thank you. I am Gabriel Triska of 1,000,000,000,000,000, and I will meet at the firm. I'm sorry. Yes. You started mentioning the reason? Yes. Yes, sorry. The community I presented in front of the community civic association for Evil Hill in East Boston. And the vote was supposed to happen after my presentation was washed away. So the meeting was postponed to July 26. So I hope to have a vote by then. And then I will have 2% again for all these votes. Thank you. What's the firm? Next available for him, Amir? That can be August 8. Does that work for you? That works. OK. Any questions from the board? Would that be a having motion? I make a motion through the first of August 8, 2023. May I have a second? Back in. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Schappern? Yes. Mr. Langman? Yes. Mr. Rueville? Yes. There are also votes, yes. Motion carries. I'll see you then. Thank you. If there is an old further request for the polls from the 930 hearings, we move on to case BOA. 1, 4, 3, 2, 2, 4, 7. The address of 67, via street. Is the applicant in or their representative present? Is that you? Good morning. Yes, this is Dennis Greenwood from Suzy Design Architects. On behalf of Fernando Delphur, Delphur Development, the proposed application is an extension of some of the gross floor area, this 444 square feet of space in the basement of an existing building that we currently have a permit for. But we're looking to finish out that space, which would put us over, which would add to an existing non-conforming FAR. So existing is a 3.82, but yet, if 344 square feet in the basement, that would put the proposed FAR at 4.43. There's no change in footprint or building height as part of this proposal. It's just to add finished area in the basement. And what's the allowable affair for this? The allowable FAR is two. Two. OK. And sorry, just to understand, it's not a new dwelling unit. It's an extension of space in the current. Correct. So what's permanent now is the building when Delphur bought it was a five unit building, one unit, or floor, they reduced it down to a two unit building. And part of that is that basement. So there's already some area down in the basement, but we're looking to finish the rest of it and give it back to that lower unit. Any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New England with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The son of Mayor's Office, like to defer to the judgment of this board, some back information community process are off the cell in the butters, meaning on March 9th. The outcome then went on to meet with the Beacon Hill Civic Association, which expressed non-opposition to this proposal. We're unaware of any concerns, but they're really being sought without deferred to the board. So, what's the problem? We're not aware of any concerns, but they're really being sought without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Any other raised hands? Just a no addition raised hands. Was that a Mayor have a motion? I make a motion to approve this project. I'm sorry, it was, provides you, did you say? Yes, but provides, I'm sorry, I'm so sleepy. No worries, the proviso is no building code relief. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. So, that's okay. And can you add plans being submitted to Boston Land Box Commission for design review? Mr. Lang? Yes. Thank you. Is there a second? There was a second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Yes, we will. Yes. Here are also those. Yes, motion carries. Good night. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 144-0161, the address of 80 G Street. Is the applicant and the other representative president? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law, 75 Arlington Speed in Boston, turning for the owner applicant who is with us as well, not Rene and also on the call. The hearing is our architect, Gary Hengen. And before you today are the revised plans which have been reviewed by the examiner, representing the scope of the project following changes made during the community review process. The proposal is to build an addition at the rear of an existing three family. Right there is the photograph of the top of Thomas Park, Dorchester Heights in South Boston. The subject property is sort of diagonal across the street from the large green roof, which is the high school at the corner of G Street and Story. It's an existing three family building, three stories in height, consistent with Thomas Park. It's a lovely historical Victorian stop building that is going to be preserved and restored by the owner as part of this project. And the addition is entirely at the rear of the property. The stone on the left is the ground floor plan because of the steep slope of the property along Story Street. The left hand side of the drawing is Story Street, the front is G Street. Based on the slope of the land, we're able to tuck in some parking under the addition and the existing basement space for seven parking spaces. There will be three additional units in the addition at the rear for a total of six units with seven parking spaces. There's an existing center block garage at the rear of the property currently that will be demolished to make room for the addition. I'll let Gary talk about the floor plans and the programming, but throughout this process. One thing that was very important to the community and to this proponent is that the addition is respectful of the existing historic character of the existing building, although Thomas Park is not technically a historic district. It is treated as such and the approach to designing this addition was very much in keeping with the historic character of the surrounding neighborhood. I'll let Gary Hendroun talk about the floor plans and programming and architecture. Gary. Great. Thank you, Mark. Members of the board. This is a very simple plan addition. We've kept the each level, the ceiling heights of the existing building were quite adequate first floor being over nine feet. So we've aligned the floors and we've matched flats at each level. So it's a three-story building. We've renovated the inside of the existing building with a new floor plan and new obviously kitchens and baths and then aligned a unit directly behind it. We do have adequate space on the building site to do that. And with doing that, of course, we've added the two egress stairs and we've added a new addition, just a little porch on the left side. There's an existing porch that we made the main entry to the building. As you go up the building, if you could see up, you'll see again matching units on the three floors as we go up and they're very adequately sized. They're over 1200, almost 1200 square feet for a two bedroom with large master bedrooms and nice walk-in closets. So there are very buildings up today's designed. These are very large units. If you scroll up to the elevations, you can see we've basically worked to be sympathetic with the existing architecture. We're matching the materials, we're matching the roof designs and the type of materials and the window patterns so that the roof be restoring the front along G Street and the rear, like I said, will be very sympathetic and matching to the front and the architectural style. There are two roof decks that upper units do have a private roof deck, which is more like a little windows walk, but they're tucked in between the roof lines and not close to the edge of the building so they're just a space to enjoy fresh air without being intrusive to the street or to the neighborhood. Do you have any questions? Would be glad to answer them. Can I ask how the extension aligns with your neighbors as far as whether it's lined up or whether it's done is turning out more, etc? To the neighbor immediately to the on G Street to the right, they've also done an addition to their building and we are actually lower than their building. To the neighbor behind us, this new addition is further away from the property line than the existing concrete garage that's there. We have spoken to the neighbor behind us in the community meeting and we do step the building away and add some landscaping. So they're looking at a blank concrete wall that we're looking at some landscaping and we've kept the parking open at the lower level so they actually have more relief than their current situation. And Madame Chair, 80G Street, I'm sorry, 82 right next door did a similar addition into the back yard area that is actually longer than this proposal and higher by one story from this proposal. So where are the number of units on either side? The 82 and the, I assume some of the, I think 82 is at least as large six or more units, but then the other one that we're talking about is down here on story street. I don't know if you can see my pointer, but again, it's a corner building. So 82 is fronting on G Street and that's the one with the large addition that extends further back and higher up in this proposal and then on story street, the first house down is a single family, but it's down the steep slope and as Gary mentioned, removal of the existing garage actually increases the degree of the setback for a structure from that property. Any questions from the ward? Yeah, I have one question. Would these be condos or rental properties? These are a kind of an in and for home ownership. Okay. I think that's Mr. Domingo. I was going to ask if he was available to talk about the parking. I asked Madam Chair, members of the board, Bob and Michael B.T.D. Can you scroll down to the parking design? I don't know about that. The space number three presents a problem because you would need 20 feet for that proper maneuverability. That doesn't even come close. So what B.T.D. will like to recommend is space one and two be designed on a 60 degree angle. Even then, it's a little short from the required 36 feet to 34 feet, but since it's residential, I don't think two feet would be a big deal, but I recommend that space number three be removed because it can't get out. Thank you. I'm just dead. Thank you. I'm sorry. Is the applicant responding to that? Yeah, I said I understood. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a question. Can the applicant talk more about this side yard setback? About the inner apps with the sidewalk and maintaining ADA compliance? Yeah, you'll see. I assume you're talking about the side yard setback with regards along the street. Stories. Story street. And we've put for ADA access. We come in off G Street. You can see where the sidewalk comes in. And we've made everything less say wide enough, but because of the slope and everything that we're dealing with, technically, we don't have to have wheelchair access to the building. But we have made all the hallways and everything compliant in terms of five feet wide and door swings. And of course, the sidewalk comes down at a fairly steep pitch, but that's the natural city existing conditions of the public sidewalk across the front of G Street. Of course, that is a public five foot wide sidewalk. And as we will, this is not. Story Street is not one of those narrow half streets. If you will in South Boston, it's a regular full-size street with the full-size sidewalks. The whole distance of Story Street going down the hill. But it is a very steep hill. Is the first one unit ADA accessible? For all your first four units ADA accessible? Yes, there's not a ramp coming in. If there was an ADA person who decided to buy that, you could have the distance from G Street up into the landing along these left side of the building. So a ramp could be put in there and it would be ADA accessible. So, Hampton, would you like to elaborate on your recommendation? Thank you Madam Chairman, support Jeff Hampton, BPA. To be honest with you, our recommendation is based on plans that we've been able to date April 7th of 2022. The elevations that were shown today in knowing that these are revised plans. We didn't sail. It's really different from the ones that we made recommendations on. There was one less parking space shown in our plans. So, we're on the record of denying without prejudice because we think the addition of success and the violations are excessive. We believe that the appellant has added the use of the product and to miss we will to your point. When we're talking about the sidewalks and we know we're not implying that property owners give up any sort of square footage of their land to make any sidewalks five feet wide. So, what we're concerned about is where there are narrow sidewalks is that the setback being increased. So, there is no impediment within right next to that sidewalk. So, people don't point tables, chairs where it might be a problem. We're not saying that in the building obviously that would be a changing if we wouldn't know that. But again, our recommendation based on something on plans that are completely different than what we're showing to the rules. Not in the general response to the BPDA recommendation. So, yeah. The original plans indeed were for a much larger structure. But as a result of the community review process, we moved an entire floor, removed decks at the rear of the property, added the one parking space by eliminating the elevators. So, there were substantial changes made to the plans. On the sidewalk issue along the story street, there would be no such impediment because there's an existing porch at the corner. And then going down the hill, there's no opportunity for anything to be left on the sidewalk that would constitute any impairment to the existing sidewalk whatsoever. But again, I think this is one of those cases that might benefit from the newly adopted BPDA process for revised recommendations of the BPDA based on changes to the project. The changes were made following our butter meeting, meeting with Dorchester Heights, Neighbor Association, and a meeting with Gate of Heaven Neighbor Association, all of whom have specific recommendations and all of which were incorporated into and adopted into the plans that are before the board today. Mark, when were these plans stated? Gary, I believe some of these plans on June 22, and we're reviewed by Mr. Demada. I think just yesterday is the date stamp, but they were submitted in Gary. When did you first submit them? The revised. Yeah, exactly June 22. You have to be completed our community process. Right. We revised and resummitted and waited for the review. So I just want to state, so you knew that they were going to be changes to the plans and you waited until after the BPDA board dates. You could probably knew that we were going to be a process. Correct. So I agree with you, Mark, that the new process is going to work with them when we have changed plans. I just think it would have been a beneficial to you to have a recommendation on the record that's better than what we have for you right now. I think so, Mark. I think so. Yeah, I just. So let's, let's take public testimony now. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul and I are in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information on the community process are off-sourcing and voters meeting on March 22. We heard a number of residents being concerned regarding the height. We understand that the applicant continue to work with those of voters and also connect with the George S. Her Heights Association, the gate of heaven-aid with association and share with them those plans. We received one letter. It's a board of one letter in our position which we forwarded to the board last night. I'm a member of the federal deferred to board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board are on the call from Council President Finx Office. We come to respectfully request additional community process for this proposal. He believes that there has been a good dialogue and work with both the gate of heaven-aid with association and those just the Heights Association on a number of compromises such as removing a floor elevator and addition of a parking spot. However, some neighbors and our voters have reached out on our work status in details of the projects. At this time, we'd like an additional meeting so that the community is on the same page and fully understand the proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, we're going to cross-solving to the Council's large micoclary. The meeting of the citizens Council of Finx Office as well as the fact that the GBA has expressed in terms of updating plans. Council would just like to request one deferral. Thank you. We have a little question. You have to give us money here. So you've been in the press. Do we have anyone from any of those organizations mentioned, gate of heaven or doorchester Heights? Anybody's the instrument? Oh, I'm sorry. You just popped up one second. Amary Rohas. Second, send another question. You are you looking to get testimony here? Annemarie. Oh, sorry. Joseph Rohas. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. I'm not a member of either of those organizations, but I am a resident owner at a 2G street at the Abundant property. So when appropriate, I'd like to have offer our thoughts as an organization. Please let us know if you are in support of opposition and briefly provides a reasoning. I represent unit 3, where I'm the owner. I also represent our condo association. All three of our units are in opposition of this plan. We mirror the concerns of some of the other councilors offices that we have not seen or had an opportunity to review these new plans. I'd also like to respond to a couple of comments that are made about our building, which I think are inaccurate or being misrepresented to the board. It was stated that our building is actually was made higher when it was renovated in 2015. But it was not made higher with an entirely new level in the entire footprint of the building. Only one portion of the fourth floor, only a fourth floor is added to only a portion of the footprint of the property. The rest is a roof deck. So it's inaccurate to say that in the entire level added to our building. Also noting that we have the open space in the back. However, our back area is a parking lot. It has three parking spaces for the three units. But higher to the renovation did have a barn in the back. So there was a higher structure back there. So anything that was added to our building was in with the knowledge that that barn was there. How it was removed to create our open space on our entire lot. Third, I'd just like to say that I disagree with the representation of the sidewalks on story street. I think they are particularly narrow. It is a one way street with a single lane in the sidewalks are particularly narrow right next to this building. So even if the retaining wall is maintained as it exists, that sidewalk is particularly narrow. I see someone from GitHub having to just give them an option to speak. Mr. Lally. Can you raise your hand? I don't. He said Lally. It says Mr. Newman. Mr. Kevin Lally. Go ahead, Kevin. I sent you a question. Yes. Be in me. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Mr. Kevin Lally. I gave him a neighbor association. We did we are supporting this project they introduced it. Thank you. I am concerned if they have submitted new plans since I'm eating. I'd like to see those plans. If they have submitted new plans before we would give a final judgment on it. Thank you. to Mr. Lallag, the new plans that are before this board are the boards that we presented to the Gate of Heaven Neighbor Association following that meeting is when we submitted them to ISD having completed the community review process. So there are no plans that you have not seen, Kevin. Any other questions from the board? Okay, Mr. I don't know if Bob and Mr. Domingo have his hand up again or if that was just from a previous hand up. Oh, I'm not sure I apologize. I forgot to mute myself. Okay, no worries. Okay, so here are no other questions from the board. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I have a question or process. If we were to vote to defer would BPDA have a second chance to remove the plans? Mr. Hamilton. No, no. Good question. Mr. Hamilton. Not after, well, if they were submitted now we weren't granted the authority. Our board made this approve this recommendation. So I don't know whether or not we can do that since it's something that you know you only get one bite of the apple and the old process. That's something that I would have to check with. And can you confirm I thought to everybody's point that you were updating your processes? Is that not been approved yet? It has. It was approved by our board. It's the last board meeting. Okay, but where do you think we don't need board of approval anymore? There will be rolling recommendation is coming. We're just set off the possibility of that 30 days. Okay, but that's moving forward and not moving forward. Right now that's the process right now. It may not be retroactive. It may not be. I don't want to. I guess maybe the question is can we request BPDA review again? I think you can request whatever you want. I think that answer. I think that answer. Okay, well, it's not there. So if that helps you, then let's. Adam Chambling to make a motion to actually deny without prejudice. We received the plans last night. I don't feel like I've had adequate time to review the plans in depth, especially since they've changed. The number of spaces exceeds the number of units. That's also another reason why I'm making this motion. And I've heard Mr. D'Amico's comments on maneuverability. I think overall there's just more work to be done. And like some changes to be made and to stay those back before us. Sir, do I have a second? Sir. Okay, Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Mewo. Yes. The chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case VMA 1465219, the address of 133 West Compton Street is the applicant and what you represent. President. Yes. Can you state your name and address for the record? My name is Ted Steckel. My address is to lantern lane when Chester Massachusetts would Steckel construction. We also have Laurel Sagan, the owner of the building by the unit, present. Laurel, are you there? I'm here. Can you hear me? Thank you. Madam Chairman and Madam to the board. We are proposing to remove, as you can see, remove our rear deck and close that space and add a depth on top. The third portion of our purpose is working on the front of our unit is not a table. We're not doing that. So all the roof was going to be proposed as being done on the alley backside of our space. We have, and this will be in line, I know somebody else has seen an invention about the one previous request that this will be in line. And our butter is in line, so I'm up and out of our alley. We didn't, and we have also name and feeding, and we've also received approval from the Southeast Historical Commission. And our building permit is pending on this discussion and potential approval. And just to confirm, I mean, staff and his draw. Thank you. Thank you. Anything that tends to you want to add? Nope, it's accurate. Great. Any questions from the board? Okay, here I'm none. I'll take public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm the board, and I can feel Shirley from the Airsoft staff, neighborhood services, and a butter's meeting with Health on May 10th, where no opposition was shown by butters, and the applicant addressed all questions and concerns. At this time, I'm Officer Vector Vector Boyd. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have any other raised hands? No other raised hands at the moment. With that, may I have a motion? I have to make motion to move. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Spemberidge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Rueow. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 143-1696 with the address of 112. Sawyer Avenue. He's the applicant and with the representative. Name and elder amen of design development consultants. 112 Sawyer Street. You can see that we completed 110 Sawyer Street. Now on the 112 Sawyer Street, both these buildings are prepared to chewed up. But we have new bathrooms, kitchens, the whole gamut that you see there. So 110 is completed. 112 is the next thing that we're talking about now of new kitchens, new bass, including rear debts. Also a deck up on the roof. That's there. And the other thing we include is we have a nice landscape yard that sort of this people's an old and space in the back. This is a pretty tight neighborhood with all the triple deckers and everything. Each unit has three bedrooms and two bathrooms on it. The basement will have storage units to each one of the units because everyone brings a lot of stuff that you have there. We move, but it's the new owners that moved in. They're very happy. We just need to move on to the next building and complete that. And we had several meetings with the neighborhood folks and everything they want to see that building completed. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Ashley Holmes. I'm a native office of neighborhood services. We went through a dead, we did. We did, but it made the one 12-year-old. On March 24th. I've been looking at all the skills that you're supporting. They did present to the most appropriate role, which was Jones-Honestly Association. It was until the late 10th, which went very well. The City was officially showing their support with A letter. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeremy Galgrin, City Council, Frank Baker's office, related to going back in support of the applicant. Thank you. And I have no way of saying that at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'd like to make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Madam Chair, I'll second with a proviso that the plan is submitted to BPDA for a design review with attention to location and design of the roof deck. You accept that? Proviso, installing them? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Lano? Yes. Mr. Wielow? Yes. Mr. Wielow? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case of the away. 139-1838. The address of 18R plain street. The applicant and the wardier represent the person. Yes. Hello? Yes. Can you please vote for yourself? Yes. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Bord. My name is David Higgins. We're an address of 12R plain street in Dodge, just a month. I'm seeking approval today for 18R plain street. If we could just go to the elevations of the grant before we would get into the ticket things. Madam and best, Ambassador, that would be great. Here we go. The top one, yes. So, in our design, we think that we like to put a bar and look on this because it is actually at the rear of some more properties. So that's the main style. Again, if it's approved, you know, hopefully it's approved and we could maybe get a BPD design review and maybe make some changes. Over the course of two meetings, two close meetings with the neighborhood, we changed a dormer, which you see on the front. It was originally on the back and we talked to the neighbors, the rear. It suggested that maybe we could remove the dormer. So actually, it looks better and it's actually south facing zone. It was a good idea and we moved the dormant to the front. If we could go to the front floor plans, Madam and Ambassador, we just walked through that before we go to the site map. As you can see, Madam Chairman, with the board, we walk in the front door. There's a kitchen living room. To the right, there's a... You walk in the door, there's a living room. And to the right, there's a kitchen living room. And then you walk up to stairs. There's three bedrooms, two bedrooms, two bathrooms. And there's a bonus room in the door floor. It's approximately 1,950 square feet. We will have a nate foot basement for storage. If we like to go to the site plan, Madam and Ambassador, we'll just talk to you. Talk to the violations. Site plan number one. Yes, that's it. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. So this particular house is 18-hour plain street, which is at the top right hand corner. This subdivision site plan is approximately 8,860 square feet for number 18-hour plain street. I purchased this property in 2017 and I built as of right the tree house, tree single families that you see in front of the last two to three years. Number 12, which you see up in the top left hand side is number 12-hour, where I will recite myself. And I'm seeking approval for 18-hour, which is on the very right hand corner. I just talked to the violations. The site yard setback is 10 feet. I'm 10 feet from the lot line on the right hand side. The way the lot line has been spilled over the left hand side, it shows a money like four feet. But that line is actually goes through to the original lot line, which is like 16 feet tall. I'm actually 16 feet from the left hand side. And the rear yard setback is 25 feet. I have 20 feet. It's a nice back garden in this particular property. It works the next single family. The closest house to me is over 20 feet. So it's appropriate. It fits. I have a good vision. I think a single family here would be very appropriate. I move forward with these single families. I've got one of many reasons. But to see young people, young kids playing on the streets again is a beautiful thing. So, you know, with their family, three single families are a bit out front. The people around the kids are on the streets. It's a wonderful thing. If you would like to go to the number two site band, just to show you my vision. My little chairman was in a board. This is what I... These are all properties that I own. So, down the road, this is where I see this thing going. It's green space in the middle. It gives the site some green area. The total square footage of this site is almost 26,000 square feet. And, you know, I think this home works here. It's a new single family. It's a new city. Especially in the Arches in this area where there's multiple single families. I have... I do have a number of two families to the left of me and some two families behind me. So, with that, I pass it over to the board for any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I just want to... We just received some letters of support. We also have a number of letters of opposition. So, I just want you to speak a little bit to the issue. I'm parking and just clarify for us the units, other units that you were referring to that you felt. Because one person over there... Supposed to be one family's, but they're not. So, I just want to understand what's the context, what's around you? Sure, yeah. No, these families, the families in the... I built them units, the units in the front, the single families in the front. They were all as of right. And they're all single families, the three units as you see here on plain street. They're single families and people are living in them. And then the 12-hour things, you know, which I've just finished up, which was approved by the board maybe like a year ago, year and a half ago. I'm in the process just finishing out on an intent to move into that myself. Again, there are single families assigned up by the family, single families. That's what's living on this. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, can I talk about testimony, please? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored. We're with the Mayor's Office and neighborhood services. This is on Mayor's Office, it's deferred to the judgment of this board. To back our information community process, our office held two of our meetings. The first one on June, we're a fifth, 2023, and the second one was held on May 3rd. Regarding the one on May 3rd, a number of residents in attendance expressed opposition to this proposal. We're critical as the board mentioned, we have received letters of opposition for letters of opposition most recently, and also letters in support from four households nearby. We understand that they didn't connect with the civic group, but we do not have any information on file if the civic taking any stance. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McEckron, City Council, Frank Baker's Office. We're in opposition today, Madam Chair. Many of the abutters have expressed opposition to the project. They originally had this discussion regarding 12-year, and the abutters all agreed that, okay, if that was the last building that you planned to do on the site who supported. Now we're back having another iteration on this site. We're in opposition today, and again, many of the abutters are in opposition as well. Thank you. Now, with your raised hands, I'll start with Margaret Lynch and then Dr. Yasemond. Mark, can you briefly tell us, we'll give us your name, address, and tell us the current support opposition. Yes, the board and the government and Dr. are my members of the partners, and the general staff and ask us to go to that. When I write long, whether they've been doing that, I will. Do you not familiar with the specifics or my opinion, with the specifics of the submission? What I was going to briefly speak about is David Stevens' reputation and its ability to bring welcome out to you. Are you speaking in support of our opposition of this project? I speak in support. Okay, so can you speak to this project? Yes. Well, I simply support David and his offer to bring welcome out into the area. Okay, thank you. Dr. Yasemond, gay? Are you looking to get testimony here? Go ahead. Yes. Good morning. I'm so sorry. I don't have my camera on, but I was okay. Let's bring you to the position. Yes. My name is Dr. Yasemond, gay. I'm at 20 plain street in Dorchester. I'm the unit of David Higgins. I am in total support of David Higgins. I am an assistant superintendent, but an office of opportunity gaps with Boston Brothers schools. I am new to Boston. I came to Boston almost two years ago looking for housing. And we all know how difficult it is to find housing in Boston. And I found this wonderful house. David Higgins is a phenomenal landlord who is a landlord that not only just creates buildings, but he also builds community. I am a very happy person. I am a very happy person. I am a very happy person. I am a very happy person. I am a very happy person. Thank you. And then Suzanne. Hello. I was in complete opposition for a number of reasons. But mainly someone mentioned before when Mr. Higgins was presenting 12 plain street. We were told that there would be no more building. And that he believed green space was important. And this space would be green space. And here we are a year later with housing being proposed. She flat out said he was done with building housing after 12. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to start a new building. Hi, good morning everyone. Yes, my husband, I, we live at 3133 Rosaria Street. My husband, Martin who unfortunately could not make the call this morning. We are vehemently opposed to this new build. A lot of the reasons as everyone else has said that we promised there was not to be new building. things that he has done to not, I don't trust what he does. And it's just been by his actions that we feel that way. But I think that this house would also be directly behind the fence to my own. And that is just not how our neighborhood, it doesn't make sense for our neighborhood. Nothing, we don't have any of that type of build. And we'd like to keep our neighborhood the way it is and the way it looks. And we are opposed to it. Thank you. Have no additional visits. Thank you. So Mr. Higgins, can you just speak to, you know, I'm looking at Google Maps. It does not appear that anything in the area has housing in the rear. Can you speak to that for a bit? Yes, well, I would say number 12, plain street has a house. Well, that's yours. That's yours. That's not anything other than yours. Actually, there is one or two more of it right now, but actually on the streets, it's at Malum Church. I refer to the size of the lot that I have here, which is switch to the level of Google Maps. You can see it. The lot is like five times, maybe not five, but at least four times the size of the house. And it lots. The average last in this area is like 42 hundred square feet and they have two families on them. My lot is, you know, three to combine the two lots is almost 45, which is square feet. If you look at that side, and you see, are there two families that are on directly behind you? And then you can, you know, so there are two families that are behind me. And the close house is 30 feet from me. And I would like to mention, which I actually forgot to mention in the presentation, that we were proposing in this single family that we go to G. Ortarmum, which we will not be gas. And we do start carbon footprint, which is the President's administration in favor. So, you know, again, it helps, it will help as well. And, you know, hopefully we can get more people to start doing it. But this is your term, which brings food here into the ground and warm air. Thank you, Mr. Egan. Are there additional questions from the board? I can't see the board right now. Are there additional questions from the board? No. Okay. Hearing done. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion to approve with the provisor of BPDA designer view. Is there a second? Thank you. Okay. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Schuppen. Yes. Mr. Langen. No. Mr. Leewell. Yes. Okay. Well, the chair's vote is their own. But the chair votes no. The motion does not carry. Hi, yes, Madam Chair. There's another message. There's the board to approve. So, may I move on for a new offer to foil? And so, you think it's adequate or it'll be a straight tile? Is there an alternative motion? That chair on the motion to die without the permit. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Schuppen. So. Mr. Langen. No. Mr. Leewell. Yes. I would say it was okay. Is there... There's only a couple of other motions to be made. So, either we'll try one more motion. I mean, I would. To now, I would rather this would happen or we would just have it. And I say, if we don't do that, if we don't do that, we would rather this would just stuck. And then either you could defer your legislative board. Yeah, we don't have to keep motioning. But as Harvey says, it will just be straight up. It will be denied then. Okay. Well, I'm going to say maybe denial, and we can do it the next day. And if we then straight deny they cannot come back with a similar project, is that correct? You can't come back with the same project. Same project. We could do that in a way for one year. Okay. Okay. Did I make a motion to just part? I'll second. We can all do whatever we would like. Let's try again. Just to celebrate. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. I know that was painful. I must have this we know. I'll support Shepard just, you know, maybe with all seven of us that we may have more information or something. I will go with the deferral, but I hope in the meantime, it sounds like it would be helpful with the developer to do a little more dialogue with his neighbors. Thank you. Okay. Next, please. Yeah, I'm sorry. Thank you. Two men. Two tender as well. Yeah. Okay. Well, hopefully that's sufficient time for more community dialogues. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1450981. With the address in 5-L.1. Is the applicant in the representative president? Yes. Okay. Can you identify yourself and your address in the speech and project? An entitled cruise project. Is that five-L.1? You brought just a minute. Yes. Okay. Can you identify yourself and your address in the speech and project? Yes. I will cruise project. Is that five-L.1? You brought just a minute. I will just watch you for it. Okay. Can you walk us through what you're requesting? Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is a... Is the applicant in the representative president? Yes. Yes. Thank you, thank you. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not... Major panelists. But what do you... I'm not... Come to panelists. Please unmute yourself. You're on mute. Excuse me. Thank you. All right, we'll speak on behalf of this case. I'm going to speak to this project. You want me to speak to him, you mean? I'm going to talk to him now. Okay. Okay. One blue fire that's available in the morning, 50,000, 803,000 security masks. Not the dining minister, Mr. Clear, who is the 7L on the road. He's proposing to build a two-family drawing on a pre-existing, not undersized wall. The house is a lot, there's only, there's an agreement at 5,000, but it's only 26, 141. And it is a spring water, 236, 2,5, when a lot of minimum requirements, 50, so we're utilizing out of an antishelative. We're utilizing articles 19.8 and 20.8 for the groups at that time. Originally the watch was, you know, at a pre-family on it, the way back, I spent on probably the 1950s and I was in empty space. Mr. Cruz is standing on the moon in his room, the lower apartment, and is from the right house, he's up at 4, to the right, that's the right person. So, we're proposing to correct the way we don't want to get our proposal. Will there be any parking on this? We're parking in the rear right at the wall, or proposing just one, one-phase amateur, do some people might, may park on the side in the driveway, but if that's still up in the middle, there's enough space for two cars in the back of the park, they'll park by the exit. Okay? Mr. Taffing, you know what? The house that was on there is one, you know, the same building that was on 7 L1 Street and also several other houses on L1 Street, looking at the original street layout. Seven houses in that area were the same building, four-years. This, the drawing is significant, the smaller than those buildings, even though the lot sizes, the third one are about the same size as the other one on one street. So, just proposing a new city, shelter, which are on the front with either we have a lot, you have to over the component. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm just going to take a raise hand from Bob, just so we can address the parking issue, if that's what you're raising. Yes, Madam Chinaparra, the Miko B.T. Day. I see no parking reflected on the planes at all, and I think that's important because I don't know where they're going. And I have to sort of judge whether it's sufficient maneuverability and the curb pad is not on L1 properly. So I'd like to see the actual parking reflected on the planes because it's a little tight, and I just want to make sure that everything is okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. And I have public testimony. I'm willing to share members of the board and actually want to help the neighbors office and the government services. I will en route the city to the hospital, but is meeting back in April. No attendance of the letters in that day. The project was presented in front of greater, greater chamber and neighborhood association. The association did so they're supporting to this project with that would be different. But what is time? Yeah. Yeah. No additional raise against. I have my hand raised as well. Right. Who's that? I am Councillor Rose Office. Go ahead. I'm Chair of the board. My name is I am a deal with the office of City Council of Brown, Royal. In regards to five on road, we had no letters of opposition and the applicant member west of Washington coalition and got the support. But as the officer raised, it was also concerned parking and the solution was suggested by using utilizing the nearby CBS parking lot. Other than that, the councilor likes to go on record and support the project. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not going to go with the motion. I'm going to go with the motion. Okay. So I think the only maybe outstanding question relates to the parking. Oh, that may I have a nice. Can I say something? Oh, okay, sir. Okay, so basically like General St. of CBS, the rest of the letters are on the side towards the back of my house. I think the other way around, they have a thing where we can park. A lot of us park here now. Well, that's what we have on the street, but a couple of us like seven. May I ask, do you have an actual like written agreement with them? Where is this something? That is the greatest part. Okay. So the only question here is related to the comment around including a parking space and Mr. D'Nico just requested plans so that it's seen it. And right now, I submitted a drawing to be able to put it in the back of seven. I'm sorry. Are you saying that this project here now requesting a co-cut that was not included in your request or waiting? This is a dissolution for the other party. Okay, so don't bring up a separate. Okay, thank you. Okay, so with that, any other questions from the party? Yeah, I have one question. Yes. I'd like to know what would happen if CBS no longer let them pop the anymore. Right now. That's for now. Okay, so we have parking in front as well. We have parking in the parking as well. Okay, so you mean street parking? Yeah. Okay. So CBS has been there for years. I mean, and they have made it. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? One again, I just so there will be no parking on the five-hours street as it stands. I would encourage someone to include some sort of BTV review to figure that part out. Good suggestion. Was that are we comfortable making a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDH's I-N-R-V-U as well as BPD review for parking. May I have a second? A second. If you must just have a bridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Wiewo? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case to be away. Yes. Yes. I am. I am too. I can't. I didn't find yourself in a proceed with the project. Hello, everybody. My name is Ariel Trial. It's from 9892. You're in Rosendale, Mass. I'm here with the project. I'm here with the project. Thank you. I'm here with the project. Thank you. Hello, everybody. My name is Ariel Trial. It's from 9892. You're in Rosendale, Mass. I'm here with Brook Trial. It's my sister who also owns the home complex. We are joined by Nick Ruggier, our architect and ex Santos, our contractor from Arts and Homes of Meditation. We are all here on the Zoom. Again, Brook and I are sisters. We bought this duplex together with our families in 2017. The work we are proposing to do is what we really feel is necessary for making this our shared forever home. When we moved in in 2017, the home already had a finished placement, which is half of my family's living space. But the previous owners did not need to work properly to code. We haven't been able to utilize the space as we would like to for our family. We are proposing to redo this space so we can expand our living area in the ways that we intended to when we first bought the home and the ways that we need to stay and to bring the building standards up to code where they should be. Additionally, in order to do that, we need to move a couple of staircases within the home, which is why we now need a new second stairway coming down from the upper porch where my sister's family lives so they can maintain their access to our shared backyard. We have presented this project to the Longfellow Area Neighborhood Association and receiving an enormous support and we have incredibly close relationships with our neighbors who are eager for this work to happen so that we can put our roots down here long term. Happy answer questions or take comments. Thank you Ms. Chowles. Any questions from the board? Here in Notman public testimony. The morning Madam Chair and members of the board, this is Diana Braun, shot from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, we deferred judgment to the board. The owners flagged for a two week comment period and presented to the Longfellow Area Neighborhood Association on May 8th. The neighborhood association didn't go to for no oppositions. We have not received any other statements. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No additional raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, now for some, this is the Council of Lodge, Michael Prairie. I'm receiving no opposition to this project. The Council is to go back into support. Thank you. What about May I have a motion? I want to make a motion to approve. May I have a second? No second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schuffred. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck to you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, since we have eight minutes. Yes, sir. Shall we take a break then? Yes. All right. Let's reconvene. I'm sorry. Thank you. In the meantime, if anyone is in the attendee section right now and you need to be elevated to a panelist, please raise your hand or send me a message in the chat so we can get you to the next meeting. This meeting is being recorded. Hey, quick roll call. Mr. Stembridge. President. Mr. Schuffred. Mr. Langham. President. Ms. Wielow. I said. Thank you. Back to you, Mr. Stembridge. So I would like to begin with the hearing for schedule for 11 a.m. At this point, Madam Chair, should I close that of our? Yes. Please. As a reminder, we have a five member board today. I look against have the option to defer to a later hearing date to be heard by the forward. So with that, if there are any request for. the girls at this time, but it's no good. Madam Chair, one dash, one dash three, L one street. Okay, that case, B O A, one, three, one, nine, five, six, three, with the address being one dash three, L one street, which is two, but it's no, it gives a background. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mark LeCas, LeCasla, 75 Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the proponents, triple W development, which is Scott Webster, Sean Webster, and Joe Webster, that one, dash three, L one street, based on the five member board status, we would request administrative deferred at this time. Thank you. With that, Madam motion? Madam Chair, I'm sorry. Yeah, the next available date will be July 25th. Is that except the one with still gas? Yes. Okay, will that have motion? I make a motion to deferral to July 25th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Lano? Yes. As we well? Yes. Here I'll. Thank you kindly. Any more of the rest of the draw of the vote? Madam Chair, it's attorney Richard Blends. I have to add two, three, oh four, cash street. Any? That's the first case, Mr. Stembridge. That would be case BOA, 147. Five, two, eight, five. With the address of three, oh four, power street. You can't to inform us what? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Blends. Business address of 245 Summary Street, in each boss, then behalf of the petitioner. Requesting an insurance deferral, 24th board. Thank you. Mr. Hopney here? Yes, this is July 25th. Well, okay. With that, I have motion. I make a motion for deferral July 25th. May I have a second? On second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schuffer. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Rueow? Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. And the other one I have is a 94, Mars Street. Madam Chair, that's a 1130. Hi, apologies. Yes, please. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Okay. Any other deferrals or withdraws? Back to you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Next, we have case of B-O-A. We have three companion cases. Case of B-O-A. 1444979. The address of 14 Street Place. With that, we have case of B-O-A. 1475322. The address being 2 fourth Street Place. And with those two, we have case of B-O-A. 1464137. With the address being 3 fourth Point. Okay. It's the applicant's and what they're representing. Present of the location point. Mr. Stanley, you are his representative here. Is that you, Collar? 617436? Okay. I see it. James. Okay. I think this is Nick Landry on the Architect. I think that's James Runtzer. What's calling an easy attorney? Okay. James, I'm sending another request to make you a panelist. Just accept that. What's the pops up on your screen? Don't get me muted. I'm okay. So, how do you give him the presentation that is carrying? No. No problem. I'm going to the panel. Oh, okay. Okay. Mr. Landry, do you know if anyone else is present to speak on this? Is it Kevin Lally? No, it's not Kevin Lally. There was a hearing. Yes, well, to remember this is a board. My name is James Runtzer and I apologize for my difficulty in logging on. I represent the applicant on each of these three appeals. And this is a classic example of why a variance would be appropriate because as we've shown in our submittal, these lots are sort of rather unique in the city of Boston and that they were laid out in 1912. However, there's 70 feet from a public way and the only access is by an alleyway that's seven feet wide. On each of these, one of the alleged violations is the fire code refusal for access and in order to ameliorate that we are proposing that in each instance we will sprinkle the buildings. Each one of these is a single family, existing single family home, home by either a long term resident or a long term resident in the community. For example, one forestry place is owned by a woman who's lived there for 10 years. Two has been a family home for 50 years and then three, one on the immediate left has recently been purchased by members of the South Boston community that they're since 2007. As you can see from the elevations, these are a man's art design with the second floor that slopes in and then ultimately goes to a peaked roof. Proposal is to straighten out the second floor facade so that it doesn't slope in and then change the peaked roof into a flat roof. The scope of construction on each of these buildings is only approximately 19 by 20 feet. One of the alleged violations that these says to run forestry places of maximum height on parcel exceeded which I can't figure out because this is MFR and the maximum height is 40 feet and we're only proposing to go to 33 feet which is three feet higher than the existing elevation. In each instance, there are two bedrooms on the second floor and the plan for the third floor has been to create a primary bed and bath and dressing area. The idea here is to bring these dated buildings up to kind of current standards to accommodate home offices and to our additional space that the man's art and the unhabitable attic wouldn't permit. This board has authority again to grant relief because again particularly these lots are only to circumstances relating to shape toography. It's unique to this district. The literal enforcement would make these, you know, prevent these properties from being in their house in their best highest best views which is the single family homes. We're not looking to increase occupancy and the desirable relief can be granted especially where the applicants in each instance are proposing to address at least some of the potential public safety hazards with the sprinkling. Now, we participate in the community process and we anticipate some opposition. However, as part of that, at least as to three towards street place, the original proposal had outdoor space on the second floor. But as part of the community process in order to address some of the immediate butters concerns, we've agreed to eliminate that as part of the project. So at this point what we're talking about is about 20 by 20 construction on the third floor, a third floor that already exists and I need to build a raising height only in additional grief fee in each instance to permit the construction of a bedroom and bath in dining area. Are there any questions from the board? Can you clarify what's going on in the lower levels? You mentioned a lower addition as well? No, well at least so if you look at the plans you'll see that one. There's nothing going on outside the existing footprints. One fourth street place is the smallest of the building and smallest of the three and it doesn't have any rear yard addition on it. It looks to be about 31 feet from the rear lot line. Two fourth street place had previously some prior time had an addition that extended that structure out about 10 feet and then third, third, three fourth street place has already erected an addition pursuant that was as a right. One of the immediate butters behind each of these I would expect I mean based on their opposition and the community process. I would just point out that the construction that goes on is at least 25 feet from their lot line and the actual construction is probably 30 feet when you think that all we're doing is an addition on a raising the man start on the front back and sides. And then squaring off the the air. Okay, I'm sorry I missed this. What did you say is going on the lower level? So one of the one of the upper is mentioned a lower addition. So that's my only question. No, the okay, so make the I'm sorry madam chair. The footprint of all three of these buildings is slightly different. One has the smallest of the footprints and nothing is going on on the lower level. Two fourth street plate rear yard addition and so it is approximately 10 feet deeper than one three fourth street place has the same 10 foot addition and it goes up to four. And it's on that second floor flat roof area that we had originally proposed to have a deck as part of the community process may agree to eliminate them. Any questions from the board? There were some concerns that they can be addressed about fire safety. And it turns out your construction there be sprinklers that were in the building or was something a month before. Yes, and that could be a provider that relief is granted that will sprinkle each of the buildings. Okay. Yes, Madam Chair, I want to call on you when the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The center mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process are off the social center butters meeting on March 23rd of 2023. During that meeting we heard from a number of residents concerns and opposition to the proposal. We heard from the out of the representation concerns regarding with fire truck people to access through the tight alleyway. These buildings and it would build up more than increase the risk of a fire hazard for the neighborhood concerns regarding noise that would occur in the back yards. The out of the context remains as a part of the proposal as well as just the increase of height impacting setbacks, remembering buildings and impacting shadows falling on those addresses. The outcome then went on to meet with the gave of having neighborhood association which Mr. Lallien's also let me speak to that whether they're an opposition. And I think we've floored in the letters we've received to the board. Thank you. Good morning, my name is your members of the board and I call it on some council president, flames office. The council would like to go on record in opposition based on feedback from neighbors and the gate of very neighborhood association. All of whom express concerns on bank city and the difficulty of first responders to get down for street plays in the event of emergency. Thank you. Christina, you look at the money here. I'm sure this is what all of the council has been called. According to the sentiments of council funds office. No additional waste. Okay. I don't care if I may address some of those criticism. I think this phone caller is also trying to speak in support of opposition can we just have testimony completed first. Oh, I'm curious. Can you get a neighbor association? Yes. We are in opposition to this. A couple of stats is that three fourths be placed just added a complete two second second for addition in the back. So the added space. I'm not sure if they want Mr Stanley and two fourths three place as biggest concern is he has one room made. He wants to put another room room into add an additional roommate basically turning into almost like a rooming house in everything. So we are in opposition. Also, we are very concerned. Even with the sprinkle system. Many fires start within the walls, which are not already well underway before a strike. A sprinkle system would kick in. And the inability of fire apparatus to get down that way would be very dangerous to the neighborhood. So we rise in opposition. Thank you. Christina. Hi. My name is Christina. I'm a director of butter to three walk street plays. I had sent a letter of opposition in again to reiterate what the some of the other people. I said fire safety is a big concern. Also for me, you know, they I've gotten a lot of sunlight reduction. Family existing extension that three fourths street plays has put on. One of the reasons I bought this house was the access to a yard with sunlight. I grow a lot of food and plants and gardening is a big activity of mine. I think this roof extension will further decrease my sunlight, which is going to negatively affect my property value and the enjoyment of the property, for which I bought it. Also, this is, you know, not creating any additional. Affordable housing or anything. It's just people wanting to take your space. But. All right. Have no additional waste. Okay. Can the applicant speak to what additions have already taken place? Because people are talking about additions that have already occurred. Okay. So three has a two story edition in the back that mirrors that of two. That was a was erected as a bright. And it shows up on our plans. And it's in that black roof section of that we had originally as part of this application proposed putting a roof deck. As part of the community process when we heard of the neighbor's concerns about the potential for noise disruption from now, we agreed to eliminate the roof deck on the second floor over the. The second floor addition as to three. The Stanley House in the middle is a single family home. It's not a rooming house. There's no intention to try to turn it into a roomy house. You can see that it has two small bedrooms on the second floor. And the plan is to have a primary bedroom on the third floor. As far as the criticism that we heard from some of our public officials. That the fire access nothing. I mean, we're actually in a moving life safety by the proposal by taking houses that were built probably in about 1880 and bringing them up to the current building standards. And then in addition to that, adding life safety features that were we not to do anything. It wouldn't be required. But as a condition and again, this sports consideration of these applications. We're proposing that we will while we can't address the access issue, we can address the fire safety issue by adding these sprinklers. Lastly, as far as one of the colors spoke about shadows and we've submitted for the board's consideration the shadow study. And I think that that that neighbor has a tree in their backyard. And so naturally when the leaves are out there's been a few more shadows. And the shadow studies that we submitted show that the three feet of additional height aren't going to create any appreciable greater shadows. So I think it's a bit misleading. Sorry, we're just letting the applicant respond at this point. Are you done sir? Yes, I am madam chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can't see the board out there. Okay. Hearing none does the BPD have a recommendation? Thank you, madam chair. Mr. LeBor just got to be a PDA. We recommended that no building code relief be created. And that plan to be submitted was signed review to minimize the disability of the tree. Thank you. Okay. With that, madam motion. Is there anyone trying to ask somebody to make a motion? I'm trying to make a motion for approval with the provisor of the BPD may design new and also no building code relief be granted. Thank you. I have a second. I can get to that provision for what's fine. Make sure that this front door is going. Yes. Okay. With that, madam second. Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Thank you, madam chair. Who is the board? Next we have case B.O.A. 126 9163. The address of 734 to 742 Dudley Street. It's the applicant. It's also an R for 80 case. Project is the applicant and the representative president. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. The applicant, madam chair and members of the board attorney, John Fogino on behalf of the applicant. With the business address, the 10th floor of the road and the rent. With me, the staff and we have the developer of Val, the peanut, the team architect, our can, Sadeq, and my lamp is a permanent consultant. 734 Dudley Street. The zoning in the state, what is the name of it? Shopping. The lot size is just under 7,600 and 656. The proposal is to build a six-story building with 25 residential units, a roof deck and three commercial spaces in the first floor, together with five arken spaces. As far as violations, we had an FAR, a rear yard, height, open space, and parking. The unit sizes, there will be five run beds that average 570 square feet, 10 to beds that average 900 square feet, and 10 to 3 beds that average 997 square feet. As I stated, this is an article eight proposal that went through two complete article eight processes. In 2017, the BPA approved the five-story 20 unit building with 10 parking spaces and three commercial retail spaces. That development also means to include approved by the zoning world with you. In January of this year, a smart park review, voter supply, it changed its file to increase the building to six stories with 25 units in five lost three parking spaces. The parking went down as a result of the BPA plan or stealthy addition of a bike room, with 25 spaces was important as this is a TOD development. Previously, this proposal caused for a three or four to be given to a calculated 15% to the notice of project change, the proposal adds another additional unit, so that brings 6% to 16%. Those are four to the units. We have one one bed at 70% AMI, two to bed at 70% AMI, and one three bed at 77%. We went through a lengthy community process. We have support from the Wendell district civic association, representative Liz Miranda, Pennsylvania, Anderson, and also, Pennsylvania Frank Baker. It's important to note that these developers are from this neighborhood building in their neighborhood. At this point, I'll show you how it's the team architect to walk you guys through the plans. Archand. I don't know if you may be a mute. Yeah, I go ahead, Archand. I just heard from the person. All right. I hope everybody can hear me. Yes. Okay, so this is our building. We have gone through a process of redesign with the VPD staff and through the community process getting back from everybody. I'll just like to go through all the slides one by one. So this is our good stuff just that has exterior view. So this is the view on the dot this street. We are presenting on the street with the first story. We have three small ten spaces and the rest of the levels are all presidential units. We are proposing to use concrete maestro unit architectural grid for the first two levels and the combination of a person adding and panels for the fours above. So we are very common of what you see on today's development and we have also some painted aluminum cornices to grow up up the entire music. The next slide is this is again another view from the street on the right. You'll see our elevation went over street, which is a smaller street. We have put our residential entrance on that side. As you see, I like it by that orange radiation canopy and change in elevation above that is emphasized the location of the entrance. And then on the same street also we have the entrance for the parking garage. Then we go to the next please. These are basements. We have a very small basement just used for storage and then spaces onto the first floor please. These are our first floor. You can see on the left are three retail commercial spaces facing on the street. And you can see at the center of our core with the main residential entrance and residents amenities as laundry elevator and little lobby, the stairs. We included a back storage room for 25 bytes and on the right we'll see our parking garage for five parking spaces onto the next thing. This is our typical floor plate. It's a very typical layout, double loaded corridor with units on both sides. It's a very small efficient compact layout. This is the last I think. There's a small change in the second floor on the floor. It's accessible for the accessible unit. And this is basically our building. I have it to take questions. Thank you. And just to confirm how many of these will be ID units? Under this proposal, Madam Chair, to be floor units, it calculates at 16% all those units will be at 70% AMOLED. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Yeah, I have once I guess it's a question. It's going to be 25 units in this building on Delhi Street. It's only going to be for low income apartments. Yes, Mr. William. Again, it was 20 units at 15 and then when they went to the article, they deal with the BPA, the BPA requested that to book floor units. So that would be so there is going to be one one bed, two beds and one three beds because they felt that they lie to units, especially it's going to be a good community to keep family tech units there. Other questions from the board? Okay. Is someone on from the BPA? Is the project manager on from the BPA? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Scott Greenon. I'm a project assistant from the BPA. I'm filling in for Quinn Valsich, who is a project manager throughout this process. This project completed the article, the review process, including the BPA sponsored public meeting held on February, April, 2023. It was approved by the BPA board on April 13, 2023. The project received support from neighbors, both in public meeting and in our online comment period. Thank you. Thank you. No raise to the moment. I'm sorry. I just went up. Call 1173699. You're unmuted. We can't hear you if you're speaking. Okay. I'm not sure what else. I have no additional raise to answer. Hi, yes. Go ahead. Hi, are you going to hear me now? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise fans? No at the moment. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I have a motion. Or is there a motion for approval? May I have a second? A second? Who else? No, sorry. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Mr. Langham. No. It means we're well. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion does not carry. Mr. John, I'd be after the bpdiI. I'd ask for a motion for deferral. This was an item Lady Project. Or a full board? May I have another motion? I don't share. I'll put forward a motion to defer. I'm out. Second? I'll talk about it. Mr. Stembridge. Yes? Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Chair also wants yes motion carries Are we ever wants the next real estate next real-worldly? Okay, thank you. Thank you. Is it That's At this point just passed Yes, as a reminder To our to our remaining applicants. We have a five-member board today Applicants have the option to defer to our leader hearing date to be heard by the full board With that Mr. Stembridge Madam chair, I have a Differo you take a diverse Yes, please or the alum doing time. Yeah, I'm very correct. It's a tree Richard lens 2.45 summer tree We have to tarnish our 94 more street is the address Mr. Stembridge So there would be Two to many cases First being case B.O.A. 1 2 8 5 2 1 8 with the address of 94 bar street and Along with that we have case B.O.A. 1 2 8 5 2 1 7 with the address also being 94 bar street Okay Mr. Lins go for it. Yes, thank you. Madam chair. Mr. Board Richard. It's 2.45 summer street at the half of the Tition are requesting and administrative deferral requesting a full board Okay, without any emotion I'll make the motion to detect We have the second Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Shepherd. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes, as we Yes, the chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. How be here? That would be obviously Okay, thank you. Yeah. Thank you Turning to the 11th of Our case next we have case B.O.A. 1 4 6 2 6 2 0 The address being 115 during road It's the applicant's hand with the president Do we have anyone for 115? Yes, I'm here. Yes, I'm here. Okay, can you put your name and address it's recorded and just walk us through your proposal? Yes, my yes, my name is Isikio Mujigo One of 115 during road Marathon and I should have my architect or on the line Mr. Rafael from the Apocalypse design consultant I just give a little introduction and It should be able to Give more details about that, you know, all the Changes so that I'll just give a little bit of an introduction here. So on April 24th, 2020 Last year The property code on fire thank god everybody came out, okay The each unfortunately the insurance company came in brought in their demolition company contractor who ended up demo The whole 34 in the roof without to do courses So when I was put into that position I had to go and get an architect who's Mr. Rafael with the Apocalypse design tool to redesign the whole faithful And the roof So he he'll give more details Should be able to give more details about the project and everything else I hope is on the line Jessica are you able to find them It was the name Rafael Hernandez it may be coming from like 774 All The last four digits should be 3187 I don't know Let me see is it a crapples? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, okay, go ahead. I unmuted you go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes, yes I am Rafael Hernandez from a crapples design I'm working with Zechio to get this project developed um If you can you have any other comments or you want me to just go through Now you do it. Yeah, just a lot of companies Can I can I scroll through these all of it through this package or do you have to do it? The master has to do it just like We move forward to the snow plans and Right right here is so the The existing building in our opinion is a three-story building because the the size of the third floor it Sneeds your definition of the two-and-a-half-story condition We are increasing to square out the walls to simplify the construction and to keep costs down to try to And we are increasing the number of bedrooms in that space Uh, but the footprints not changing the building height is not changing It's just going to be a simpler more boxy design for to keep the cost down and to Since this was a fire loss and there is a obviously a budget. So this is why we proposed this design for the project If you keep scroll to the next page This shows the The basically we're duplicating the layout of the second floor onto the third and finishing the basement for storage and In the building And if you go back to if you're under the next page of movies with a It shows the FAR total numbers And it doesn't bring description of How the what the existing is and the proposed and why we believe that This is already not a two-and-a-half-story building um and by Having the third floor walls before high We do increase the FAR but it is only by Point or way Uh to the ratio and um I don't think this would be a detriment to the neighborhood um in our opinion um Do you have any Any specific questions I'd like to hear them please are there any questions from the board Okay, very none can I have public testimony please Yes, Madam Chair members of the board Conor anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services This time may also to fridge judgment to this board Uh some back information community process to understand it was productive one Um the applicant uh spoke with neighbors and Eventually met with the greater madempa neighborhood council which voted to support this proposal without the French the board. Thank you Thank you My office I need to go over my country to support this thank you That's it because of what we've all sold us and you know the red make a blind And Johnny and Johnny did you like to get testimony? Yes, I'm from councilmania's office and where in support Thank you. I don't know dish no way stands Okay, was that may have motion Yes Thanks make a vote for the game To approve yes, okay, maybe second So that can Mr. Stambridge yes, Mr. Shepard yes, Mr. Langham yes, ma'am Thank you Mr. Moose we will yes Uh chair also votes yes motion carries good luck sir Thank you for so much. Thank you so much appreciate Next You're next we have case B.O.A 147 3283 The address of 604 metropolitan Avenue is the applicant and or their representative president Yes, hello Yes You One The mother chair And that's a Good morning My name is Cesar the Southern I am a local architect a contractor. I live in Dorchester and I only speak And I would like to contribute to the solution of the housing problem in Boston by building Houston unit building in 604 metropolitan have high park I Would like to have your support and if you have any questions, please let me know. I like to answer The questions you may have thank you Okay, are you walking us to a proposal are you asking us just a real question right now? I can if you want me to walk through the proposal I will do that yeah, I think just provide the context you know Okay, what are violations that that are involved and you know I do have like most of the locks in the ceiling It's a small plot but uh we provide you here On the side where it says on the left We need ten feet we have ten feet side blocks and go back up stay there Then We have on the street side. This is a corner lot. We have like to the back seven For four inches but towards the front in the middle we have around 14 to 17 feet on the right side we provide in The back actually there is a space for four cars To inform to him back and then on the right side if we go back in the space for another two cars So we can provide here For to one four to six cars off the street and it is a really area on the corner From the front to the side like sizeable Space for the line and green area doing due to the distance a corner lot If we go to the next stage Do I have control of this? No you don't You know, okay Let's this is a plain simple basement open space knowledge storage But let's go to the first floor madden chair Or okay Here we have a three bedrooms units Uh nice large leaving slash dining in kitchen We have three bedrooms which are throughout the average is 12 feet by 11 Uh Through most of them and we have one and a half back and To our Moons of progress a front and then the second rooms of the rest I believe let's get to the second floor Please And here again is just uh another The outdoor has a little extent of leaving dining and kitchen and the same bedrooms the same size of bedrooms and of Three floors I would like very much to continue to and to the uh Solving the housing problems here in Boston by building these three units. I'm an architect and I'm a Contractor here in Boston, Dorchester And I would like to have this first opportunity To have this relief and we are support to thank you Project thank you. Thank you mr. Domingo Ah, yes madam chair members of the board Bob and me go btv. I have several concerns about the parking plan Uh the plan only reflects one parking space and the applicant is requesting for And uh There's a plan for two curb cuts which is also about reflected on the plan and finally Um from what I can see this front yard parking on this plan which is something that we are adamantly opposed to What that being said uh, thank you so much Thank you As a question from the board You Mr Do you want to address the parking comments that were made the concerns around curb cuts and um front yard parking? Yes, I see here If you see the drone that is on presently right now, it's not only one parking if you see the back But he's two cars and then another two cars can be behind it like you have it I think what he i'm sorry the concern was that you're i think your plans called for One parking but you're showing more than one parking and you're also showing and you're also showing two curb cuts correct can be the curb cut i think one is already there the other one that we will bring to one at the side We can put it on the other side on yet different address on different street But i don't recall showing on one part of this is the uh Site plan shows pretty much the first site plan if we go back To the second page now then actually the engineer site plan shows not only behind the uh Just drones the other but uh if you go back to the uh Site plan you can okay right here you see the space one so that could be too back and there is another one right here On the side i can go back so if i would mention one part of another member I'd rather apologize for this space cook at least three cars Hey any questions from the board Hearing none may i have a testimony? Yes, Spanner chair members of the board, Conor Nimo with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services This time the mayor's office like deferred to the judgment of this board Some back information on the community process our office held two of butters meetings The first on October 27th in the second on February 28th There were opposition from butters at both meetings where neighbors stated that they felt the project was too large for the lot And also expressed concerns for parking increased traffic related to Our impact excuse me the high schools of new mission pcl a and the hcc being on that street as well I the applicant went on to meet with the high park neighborhood association twice Once in November and again at their December meeting The media butters repressing at both of those meetings Um the high park neighborhood association wanted the original eyes refusal letter to change to address some of the issues such as insufficient off-treet parking Which they felt that there was errors made on the initial sightings when the new refusal letter was issued The applicant went back to the hbnnd Excuse me and we conducted our second meeting shortly before that The civic association determined that they are unable to support the proposal Um due to what they feel is adverse impacts on the neighborhood expressed by butters Our office received an additional letter of opposition from an butter We also received ten signatures in support of the projects that the applicant sent over to our office I've been both of those things have been made available to this only board of appeals With that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you Thank you Good morning madam chair members of the board joining free us from council and royals office I'll be on the going record in support of this. Thank you Thank you And then Jay had it Hello Hi, how are you? Good morning madam chair and boy My name is Susan Sullivan and I'm the director of butter who has lived in the neighborhood for many years And I totally totally oppose this He has never taken care of this property and all the time that he has owned it I'm sure there's violations out there that I don't know of I have spoken with council also to protect my property and I plan on possibly having someone come out to survey Because he has I just don't feel this is right. It's going to take away My son which heats my house Um the parking the accidents that we have had on that corner it will take outside for people coming out of that street I'm just want to leave that I'll leave it at this that I'm just totally totally Same yeah, thank you everybody. I you know jay page and I live across the street five ninety three metropolitan now Yeah, I echo Susan's comments and really concerned that this project is far too outsized and big for this lot A lot really never has been taken care of so there's a stewardship sort of responsibility question I have with the owner developer But you know the main thing is it is far it's just too big for this lot and the design is very much on a character with every other house Around it. So thank you. Are you ready? I Want to be asked to go around or else to walk or just walk into offer support for this project Okay, and a now a Nanjing you look and I get Thank you for the presentation team right Okay, we should be all set I'm from Consular Wayne, he has office and our office isn't support. Thank you Not the show where it's And the other time from the boy Sponsored from the Uh, question north of any any response on the applicant. Oh, okay. Yep Mr. Getson any comments? I Is so I am for a little while It is uh, I feel Uh, sometimes clean in the lot. I know that the neighbor calls the ISV a lot and if I didn't that continue clean the lot as much I apologize. I will go back and start maintaining the light But as you know if I can build on it there will be another major expense to leave but I apologize Try to be sure that I haven't I don't heard that here for there this weekend or the next weekend I'll start maintaining the lot better if it's not to be a uh thing I apologize But other than that I would like to be a support and understand that I will take her son Uh from her window the sunshine gift but in the I rather create housing and I don't think I could afford to maintain a lot as a park In that location so I apologize if There are many houses in between houses don't get some on the side you get to the front of the back and to me I Well, they gave me uh Whatever they want their community. They wanted to help for me to build but what I see they don't want no house there at all then You know that's I believe Uh, uh, not Yeah I'm not a city and I Thank you sir. Thank you. I'm sorry for the kind of like words but I appreciate it. Thank you Uh, without me. I have a motion I will put forth a motion to approve of the proviso that hands be submitted to the bpda for design of you With attention to consolidating parking to Stafford street Reducing the curb cuts to only one and reducing impervious sacrifice area Would you add btb review? Yes It's just second. Okay, mr. Stumberg Yes, mr. Schuffer. Yes mr. Langham no As we roll yes Chair votes yes motion does not carry Can I have an alternate motion Dr. Motion to the park Now the second that can mr. Stumberg Yeah, mr. Schuffer Mr. Langham Yes, as we roll asked Uh, chair also votes yes motion carries I guess I'm sorry Thank you. Did it predict the uh, August 29th Okay, mr. Dusselva August 29th your case will be heard again Thank you, man. Thank you members of the board. Thank you chair. Thanks. This is massive. Thank you. Thank you You Next we will move into the red discussions for 1130 Um Should we remind Uh, I can remind again Sure as a reminder we have a five member board today applicants have the option to defer to a leader here indeed to be heard by the full board Thank you Madam Chair That our next we have case B 0A 140 7102 with the address of 1 cent to the street Is the applicant and or the representative president Yes, mr. Secretary Madam Chair members of the board attorney right expense with Adams and Marancy business address of 168 H street first floor self-poster Joining me today is the owner of Elbed Hall in the architect Eric Zapperson This is a proposal to raise the existing structure and erect a new single family dwelling with one car covered parking space at grade level Level one will consist of a new proposed curb cut for garage parking in the front In the rear of that grade level There will be an additional space consisting of a kitchen and an open living area Level two will consist of one bedroom a living room in a second kitchen Level three will consist of two bedrooms We have violations for insufficient onsize as the lot size is approximately pre-existing at 1173 square feet We have a height violation due to the textile amendment to the zoning code that when demolishing the existing height of a structure That structures height is the max We are proposing 35 feet 9 inches which is compliant under article 68 below the 40 feet requirement Uh, we have a violation for insufficient front yard We are proposing to construct the property line which is in line with the other properties on two to street as well insufficient rear yard This apostle here is subjected to a shallow lot which would require us to comply with the 15 foot setback and the proposal here cost the 10 foot setback It's sufficient parking of a new mobility as the proposal only allow for one car Which would have to reverse onto that small side street of tutor there is currently no parking on two to street as well At this point i'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions or comments Okay any questions from the board You're in line now may it take public testimony The morning uh madam chair members of the board and an await with the mayor's office of neighborhood services Oh and asked host and a butters meeting for one ten to district and December 12th 2022 The proponent answered all questions and concerns the city site neighborhood association is in support This proposal because of how the proponent worked at the butters to address their concerns at this time We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you this way Good morning, my name is a member of the board and I can't get on from council president flings office that president We'd like to go on record in support based on feedback from neighbors and I group community process with compromises on both sides council president being respectfully request that the team continue to work closely with the community on any quality of live issues during the construction base. Thank you Thank you Thank you I have no additional ways. Thank you Okay, thank you. Uh, was that me have motion? Um Madam chair put forward a motion to approve with the provisos that plans be submitted to bpda for designer view Uh, with attention to addressing parking maneuverability Uh, by eliminating spaces or creating tandem spaces increasing the rear yard setback to allow for light and air To abandon buildings and decrease overall up average and increase the front yard setback to achieve minimum five foot eight Eight compliance sidewalk Yeah, the second Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Shepard Yes, Mr. Lennon Yes, this will well. Yes Yeah, also, it's yes motion carries great. Thank you Next we have Yes, we have case B 08 1 2 6 4 6 7 0 The address being 240 Sylvan Street Is the applicant and the one they represent the firm Uh, yes, good afternoon, Mr. Stembridge. My name is Kevin Cludier from the Cludier law firm with the business address of 1990s center street in less rock story And I represent the order and applicant uh, this project Yeah, can you walk us through? Well, sure, I am asking the board today Madam Chair members of board. I'm respectfully requesting another deferral in this matter This is a project that balls Uh, the demolition of existing two stories single family home Uh, whether proposals took inverted and redeveloped to a four story two family home It's it enjoys the support from the city site neighborhood association and a number of butters are a number of citizens in that area However, we are flanked on either side Uh, by a single butter who owns the property down the left and right side of this property Who's raised some objection objection shortly before our original ZBA day Uh, the the furl is to allow my clients and the our project architect additional time to work with that of water to come up with a plan that can satisfy That butter's interest as well as my client so I'd be respectfully requesting a deferral and if the board is inclined to allow it I'd ask that perhaps in the fall. I don't know if August will be sufficient amount of time for us to to work together with that of butter Thank you mr. Hombie here Yeah, Madam Chair There are some probably in the September 12 but if they out in white it could be not sober October 17 could be the next day That I think the October day would be put us in the best position to I work together Okay, thank you. Was that may I have a notion? I make the motion to the third of August 17 October 17th you mean? I told the seventh rule Thank you. No one's All right, I'll make a second back in Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Mr. Langham Yes Mr. La Yes Chair also rose yes motion carries Thank you Next we have two two companion cases First being BOA case BOA 140 7501 The address being 518 to 520 park street With that we have case BOA 1445525 With the address being 522 park street It's the applicant and or their representative president Yes, mr. Secretary Madam Chairman is the boy attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marantee business address of 168 H street first floor self-hosted The proposal in front of us today is to change the occupancy from a two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling by way of a full-God rehab Along with an addition of three dormers onto the existing structure Again that existing footprint of the building will be maintained Ancillary parking of the three-part spaces are going to be added on the sister application of the 522 park street There's a reasoning why that we did not combine these two parcels and hence is the fact that 522 park street is one of those deep restricted lots That only allows the dominant possible under the right to extend living space launch of that lot a garden shed or parking as this case is here within the proposal It the dormers that are being designed here to provide an expansion of little space on the third floor while maintaining a typical three-decker style Do them on the right front is approximately 10 foot three inches wide and 14 feet three inches long The dormer on the right rear is approximately 12 feet by two and a half inches wide and 30 feet by one inch long The dormer on the left will run the length of the house at approximately 49 feet eight inches long and 10 feet by three inches wide This proposal is within a three-f six thousand sub district the total lot size of the existing structure is 3,304 square feet in the lot size for the parking is an additional 4,368 square feet which would amount to 7,672 square feet Unit one will consist of basement and first floor of approximately 2,258 square feet Little space in the basement in three bedrooms living room dining room on the first floor basement ceiling height is 9 feet and will have two window wells as well as two means of egress stairways Unit two will be located on the second floor and will consist of approximately 1212 square feet of living including a living room dining kitchen in a two bedroom Unit three will be located on the third floor and will consist of approximately 1281 square feet with the living room dining kitchen in two bedrooms as well Each unit has a proposed rail balcony of approximately 10 feet long and 14 feet wide We have violations for conformity with existing building alignment in front yard setback I'd like to mention that the existing front yard is 4 feet nine inches It is not being changed as the footprint of the building is remaining Additional lot area is another violation. It's my opinion. We should not have been cited for this as there is no additional lot area required for this sub district We have a four area ratio violation the existing F8 hours of 1.2 which is pre-existing nonconforming And as as what is compliant in this area is a point four we are seeking a 1.6 floor Building height is excessive in the stories as we're proposing three stories What is compliant is two and a half but we We we are compliant as far as the height is is required and the last violation that we are seeking relief for is The rail yard again, this is pre-existing non-performing at 9 feet 11 inches at this time of going to pause for any questions or comments from the board Thank you Mr. Spitz Any questions from the board Hearing non-man public testimony Yes, Madam Chair members the board who caught our new little with the mayor's office and neighborhood services This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board Some back information in the community process are off-selling the butters meaning of December 6 I would the out-fin answer questions that the residents had they then were in touch with the local civic association We're unaware of any major concerns at this time. Thank you Thank you, Mr. Newman The afternoon Madam Chair members or my name is Adam Adir we were with the Office of City Council Surferable Rail and regards to these party parcels the aboding civic west of Washington coalition gave their support and no letters of opposition Received the council let's call recognize for this project Thank you We have lunch Do we have any other race dance? I have no additional race and thank you. All right. Thank you Would that be a motion? I'd like to make a motion for a full-woman BBA design But I'll definitely accept it to the goals Thank you ma'am second that can Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepard Still laying them yes Chair also votes yes the motion carries Thank you I Would you repeat the proposal? I'm sorry it cannot idle press The proviso is that plans be submitted to the to the bpda for designer view with attention to dormers Thanks. I think Okay next case next case is feel away 1 4 2 2 7 2 3 with the address being 26 and Sony a month It's the applicant and or their representative president This is this while there are bring me present Joe Stefanoona Luna design group architect present Okay, are you speaking on behalf of the owner? Yes, I am Okay, then please introduce yourself in the walk us through Okay, once again Joseph Luna companies name is Luna design group. We are the project architects for 26th-Estonia roads speaking of the half of our client Cynthia and Sean Brady As a relatively simple project the project consists of adding two dormers to an unfinished 112 square foot attic space Total increase with these dormers will increase the size of the attic to 926 114 square foot advocate ad The attic is is currently unfinished and plans to be unfinished The two there are two dormers as part of this project run on the south street side Which is a matching six foot gable Dormor which which is the one we are seeking relief for Because we have a setback violation 25 required setback we are at 17 feet. There is no Really required for the shed dormer on the west side. I want it again bring up that The attic space will be unfinished so there is no increase in in the present FAR My client realizes that if they do plan to finish the attic at a different At another time it will require zoning relief because this will put us over the required report FAR Thank you any questions from the board Here I'm not there for the testimony I How's it going? My name is Dan Hudson. I'm the mayor's liaison to westroxbury. Just wanted to We're in the front of the board on this the I'm going to present it on July 27th in front of the westroxbury council. They were approved unanimously No questions are concerns from the butters or anyone else that they come to someone but We're different from the board on this. Thank you I don't know Do we have any other raise hands? Say you're hearing none. Oh, I may have a motion I'll put forward a motion to approve I'm a second Thank you Mr. Stembridge Oh Mr. Stembridge Yes, thank you, Mr. Shepherd. Yes, Mr. Langham. Yes Miss Wewa. Yeah The chair also votes yes motion carries So I'm guessing we need to adjourn to one is that right? How we are? Yes, oh, great Okay, see you all back at one. Thank you, board. Have a good day You