 This practice of holding virtual hearings to March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar of that platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure that the hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through a telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed in today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notice page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. The panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Like the officials, representatives, elected officials and members of the public. The chairman limits a number of people called upon to offer comment at a time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address, sorry, first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Forshould reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the year. Today's board consists of six members, one less than a full board. As a result, if any applicant would like to wait until a seven member board is seated, you can seek an administrative deferral. I will now take the roll call of attendance of board members. Mr. Forchim. Mr. Berraza. Miss. Don. Mr. Robinson. Here. Mr. Rujero. Good morning. Morning and Mr. Hampton for the BPDA. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Welcome everybody. Mr. Forchim will now begin with a call of the minister. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Our first order of business is more of a long-skeeping issue with the resignation of Madam Chair, Rujero. We need to make a motion. I will make a motion to put my girl as the chair for the remainder until such time is needed from the city of Blossom to change that. I'll second that. All right. All right. All right. I'll second that. All right. All right. All right. All right. I'm sorry. I've got to do the roll call. Mr. Forchim. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Jero. Yes. And I concur. So thank you all. And for the period of time in which I'll be chairing, I will try to do the best that I can in terms of fairness and transparency and equity for everybody who participates in these hearings. Mr. Forchim. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Jero. Thank you for stepping up to be the chair. The first order is extension call in first two cases, calling BOA 609358608. I'll speak. There is a companion case, BOA 60935510. Name an address for the record please. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse 75R, Lichtenstein, and Boston Attorney for the applicant. Thank you, Mr. Reb. Regarding 6810, Basin Street, the board originally granted to the lead on November 4, 2016. Soon after someone have failed the decision to disappear the court and the actual dismissment on July 23, 2018. We're polling that relief expired on October 28, 2021. However, the applicant received two unnecessary extensions that extended this relief until July 23, 2022. The applicant has continued the pursuit of permit at ISD's requested that they receive another extension from the board because of the administrative issue with the permit application. Although it really has technically expired, the request is only for the applicant first necessary extension when polling is considered. Therefore, I recommend that the board grant this extension if it determines that it is appropriate to be taken under the circumstances within effective days of October 4, 2022 until October 4, 2023. Can I have a motion? Motion to extend to October 4, 2023. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. I'm better than Raza. Yes. It is done. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Zero. Yes. And I am in a core of the motion passes. Thank you kindly. On the next two cases, very extensive, Colin B. Z. St. 3 0 7 4 5 5 83 to 5 83 D. Ashmont Street. There's a companion code 3 3 0 7 4 6 5 85 to 5 85 D. Ashmont Street. Name and address for the record. Doug Steffanoff, architect, address of 4 23 West Broadway. Thank you. It's out there. Thank you, Mr. Steffanoff regarding 5 83 5 83 D. It's 5 85 5 85 D. Ashmont Street. The board are reading the grant that this bill 8 on May 17, 2011. Doing that after someone has failed the decision to theory a core in the matter of the SNES in 2016. The board has since granted four extensions of relief. However, the last two extensions were unnecessary. With tolling the second extension until October 16, 2020, we made valid until January 21, 2022. The most recent fourth but unnecessary extension extended to really until October 16, 2022. The applicant is now seeking further extension of relief until October 16 of 2023. I recognize the board grant this extension. To find the appropriate under the circumstances. Keeping in mind that this is only the out of concern and necessary extension rather than a test. Do you have a motion, please? Motion for one year extension to October 16, 2023. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Bedavirasa. Yes. Mr. Ong. Yes. Mr. Rowan. Yes. Mr. Rujiro. Yes. I too agree with any motion passes. Following the last case, sir. Thank you. Sorry. Following the last case for extension calling, VLA 103-56213 Robinson. Great. Name and address for the record. Programs. Three Robinson Street, Dorchester. Massive. One to two. Thank you, Mr. Gond. We got in three Robinson Street. The board granted the two leave on October 9, 2020. This is the applicant's first request for an extension. No calling applies to the matter. I recommend that the board grant this relief if it finds an appropriate and under the circumstances. To what date, Mr. Fortune? It expired on October 9, 2020. 22, I'm sorry. 22, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 22, 12 rolls. I'm sorry. On October 9, 2023. Motion for one year extension to October 9, 2023. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Van Roraza. Yes. Mr. Dung. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Regiro. Yes. And I agree the motion passes. Thank you. Hey, Mr. Chair, would you like to make your comments on the public's extension? You have a second number, Royal? Well, I already said that initially, but I'll remind people before you ask for deferrals and withdrawals. This is a six-member board. So everyone is entitled to an administrative deferral should you wish. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm going to call any deferrals or withdrawals in the 930 cases only. Yes, Mr. Secretary. If you can just give me the address please. 229 Maverick Street. Thank you. For the directly calling, be the way to 1-375-37-229 Maverick Street. Name and address for the record. Point, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Attorney Dirk Small, or business adjustment, if you want doubts and grotesque, I'm rehearse to give you the deferral of this matter, it's quiet. Can I have a motion, please? Motion, defer. So a second. Thank you. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Ezero. Yes. And I agree. And part of the last step, late in date. Comfort, I'm going to ask. You need a later date here. We can go into December, but I don't know what the third of the cancer valve you need to go in front of the community. There's no rest for it. If you have a date, November, that's fine. We can do November. Well, we can do November 15. That's why. 30. Yes. Mr. Chesley, November 15 is a lot of things. OK. Very good. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that were thrown into the adverts for? 17 Sheaf Street. Calling VOA 133978717 Sheaf Street, naming address for the record plate. Lorraine's Coutino 245 Sumner Street in East Boston, just requesting an administrative defile, please. Can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to defer. I can. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Benham Rousen. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Ejiro. Yes. And I am also in support of motion passes. You have a date of, you have the last date in November, November 15 at 1130. We're now into December. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that were thrown for the 938? Yes. Is that the number? Requesting a deferral for 684 to 702 Center Street, Ward 19. I have 30. Third. And for the record, calling VOA 1342865684702 Center Street, naming address for the record. Your naming address for the record plate. Yes, I'm sorry. Eric Lawrence. 684 Center Street to make a claim mass. Are you requesting administrative deferral? Yes, I am. OK, can I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. I'll sign it, Eric. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Miss Bedaboraza. Yes. Miss Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Ejiro. Yes. And I'm in agreement motion passes. And we are in two of the 7th, 6th, 1130. Thank you very much. You know, are there any other deferrals that were brought to the 930? There are none. I'll call the first case. Calling VOA 138192155Soli Street. This is a renovation of 45Soli Street. The proposed work is for roof deck to be built. Radiolation Diagon 62 Section 25. That roof structure restriction access to the main roof by Friday the spiral stair. Name it address for the record plate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board of Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and to Sconto with Business Address. I would like to begin to read. Mr. Secretary, I just wanted to make sure there was the unit that was going to come in case as well. There's 245. Yes, I'm sorry. You're right. Sorry. There is a companion here. Mr. Drego, thank you. Hey, VOA 138192545Soli Street. We just call it a forever. And a brain print. This is proposed curve pet for residential 5. And the resident can want to be only home. The third pet will be at the monument court side of the home. One power 5 in space 855, like 20. The violation is out of 10. Section 1, the limitation of air accessory uses. Article 62, Section 8, the supervision of the role of the space. And Article 62, Section 29, the utility call is in the way of the access drive. Name it address for the record. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board of Attorney Jeff Drego, Drego Sconto with the Business Address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant, Jane Reads, and the owner of the property at 45 Soli Street. We're proposing to, in one application, to erect a roof deck 140 square feet on top of the building. And on a second application for use of premise to create a curb cut for one parking space, just to point out to the board, this curb cut would be accessed on monument court. And that's a picture of it right there. There is no parking on that side of the streets or not losing any existing street parking for this one spot. The, as was mentioned, this has become a one family building. It was previously a two. This is a 3F 2000 district. And the, just to go over the roof deck, as was mentioned, is 140 square feet. It's accessed by a spiral staircase. And the parking space is 8.5 by 20 in the rear. It's going to 10 foot wide curb cut. And it actually has additional space in front and back. So it's one, it would be one of the larger spaces along that area. Most of the buildings around us have curb cuts on that side of the street. And many of our budding buildings have roof decks as well. I can just go over the violations that were read. One is roof structure restriction. And it's due to the roof deck. And you can see in this picture, it's accessed through the back, second floor, through a spiral staircase and a second deck. Limitation of area of accessory use, that is the parking. It is just five feet off of the property line within five feet of the side buffer line. And then off street design maneuverability. It mentions the utility pole. It is actually a city street light. One of the gas lamps we met with the street light division. If we were to be approved by the board, they said they would work with us at our expense to move to shift the pole slightly a few feet to the right or to the left at their discretion. And then open space, 350 square feet is required. And we are proposing 316 square feet. And that is with the addition of our decks, the area that we're proposing for the parking spaces existing hot top mounts or not taking any green space away. I can pause and answer questions or. Okay, a couple of questions. Greg, so this is an on name right over like this trick. Is that correct? No, not to my knowledge. Okay. Yeah, I'm looking at the drawing. So is the deck below the one that the looks like either a door or a slider or whatever opens on to is that existing? No, it is not. So that is a proposed deck. It wasn't cited for any violation. It isn't as of right, but it would. Okay, so you're actually building two decks. One one belongs spiral staircase going up to the roof and a roof there. You correct. Okay, but there's no violation on the little one. All right, Mr. you want correct. It isn't the neighbor design overlay. Okay, that's what I'm excited to apologize. I'm Mr. Arley. So okay, Mr. Drego. I. Mr. or like it's Jeff. You have to just for the record being in an NDOD is not a zoning violation. Yeah, I understand that I was just trying to clarify. Okay, so I'm in the second. So there's two separate things. So and the second thing is from the rear from the court is this parking and talking about a 10 foot curb cut and a 10 foot wide parking area. Is that right? Yes, it's a full parking space which you can see here. Mr. Chair and it was additional room in the front of the state and half by 20 and there's additional space in the rear just. We're a little extra. Okay, I miss better. Where are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Okay, Mr. Dr. Jim, did the BPD have an opinion on this? We recommended approval with design review on the roof deck because it's in an NDOD. We'd like to defer to BTT for the curb cut and the parking space out back. Yes, Mr. Chair, Mr. Dmitke Leibor will leave us on. He does have a comment on this. Mr. Dmitke, please enlighten us. Mr. Dmitke, are you there? Yes, he has a great. Okay, is he been unmuted? Hello? Yeah, go ahead. Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the Board of the Makeover BTB. It's in the rear, so I have no problem with this design. Motion to approval from BTB. Okay, very good. Thank you. All right, is there anyone here who would like to testify either in favor of opposition? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the Board, I want to meet with Mayor Sos and him for services. This time, the Mayor Sos, I'll select to defer each other to the Board. Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of information due to personnel changes in our office, but this time our office is unaware of any concerns expressed from him. Thanks. Are you, Mr. Dmitke? Are you aware of the street light issue? Yes, we didn't see that in the description there. As I said before, we're not aware of any concerns. We'll reach out to our office recently. We'll talk about this one today. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, you have letters of opposition. We have one page to point. Second, too. One of the letters of opposition based on Mr. Fortune. Parking. Okay, all right, but the BTB is comfortable with the arrangement. All right, are there any other raised stands? Anybody else want to testify? Okay, can I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Mr. Chair, I do have a raised hand. Okay, I'm starting. Go ahead. That's all. All right, Mary Ann. Hi, Mary Ann. Can you hear me? Mary Ann? No, she's... Hello, can you hear me? Yes, please state your name and address for the Market Foods. Mary Ann, Chase Gordon, 12 Monument Court. Look, are you into any part of opposition? I am in opposition. I just read a comment that someone said it's in the rear, so it's no problem. Please let me point out to you that in the rear means monument court. This is a small dead end street. There are three houses on this street, and it is a huge problem for us. We have a problem as it is here. We have seven cars in those three houses, and we can never get a spot on the street. Those of us who live here, we have older women who are liking bundles from, you know, remote locations. And the reason we can't is primarily due to solely street, because solely street has been converted. A lot of the houses from 39 to 51 have been converted to tenancies, they now have absentee owners. And the absentee owners don't seem to care about the conditions here which are terrible from these locations. This one particular one is absurd. By ten foot minimum space, I saw the drawing. There was absolutely no lady at the attorney around, and I heard that there's no problem because there's no parking on that side of the street. Well, it's a very small street. So there is a problem because it's given that we only have ten spaces on the entire street, but seven cars. We're coming from other places to park here. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not in need of us. I'm not. Well, you're now repeating yourself. So if you have something new to say, please go ahead. Otherwise, I will ask you to stop. All right. Can I have a motion, please? Motion approval. Motion approval of a BPD, a designer view for the roof deck. I'll try that. Okay. Can I add another, another, a, another proposal to that? Go ahead. To provide access internally through a roof hatch versus an exterior spiral. Oh, that's a, well, that would be a pretty fundamental redesign, wouldn't it? No, I mean, you have, you can do an internal stair going off from the stair case on the plan. I mean, this would, this would allow for controlling of noise and sound from the exterior. And there could be direct access internally. Okay. So the, and can we also have a third proviso that the BPD review the, once again, review the, the apartment spot? All right. Mr. Regera, you made the motion. Will you accept those amendments? I, I suppose you. Okay. Is there a second? Can I have a second, please? I'll second. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Bedar-Boraza. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Regera. Yes. I'm two in favor. So Mr. Hampton, can you please, you know, look to see whether or what? Mr. Brost is proposing is feasible. When you do your design review. We'll do. Okay. Thank you. I mean, the case, I mean, the LA1226, 6818, 12 to 12 in Hudson Street. This is directly a new six-story building with one restaurant, chal spaces and four residential units. The violation of Article 32, that's 32, that's four. This is in the G5, and Article 43, Section 23, OX 35. I'm going to have to look for the right to vote. Morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Address, the 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Mr. Chair, members, this is an application for a new six-story building, which would contain a two-story restaurant and four dwelling units above at 12-128 Hudson Street in Chinatown. This is located within the historic Chinatown protection area as a zoning sub-district under Article 43. The plans that are before the Board today have been updated as the permit application was initially filed, and the original zoning refusal letter was issued, the original proposal call for two restaurants and four residential units above, including restaurants facing the basement. That has been changed so that the proposed use now is a five-level restaurant on the ground floor, and the second floor, that restaurant would be a total of approximately 2200 square feet. The basement would be entirely unoccupied space. It would serve the restaurant. It would contain a common mechanic for the sprinkler room, a common stairway, and there is about five feet of head height in a portion of the basement that would allow for a historic and trash storage. The units above are all very simple. There are four one bedroom floor through units of approximately 686 square feet. The zoning refusal letter cited G-Cod applicability, cited a violation or excessive floor area ratio, that violation would be eliminated with the revised plan, and a violation or insufficient obstreet parking. The only zoning relief being sought is for insufficient obstreet parking, as we are forced to comply with groundwater conservation, or the lay district requirements. With that, I will take any questions that members may have, and I believe after that, the Board could hear from Mr. Symanelli on the G-Cod matter. Okay, well let's see what the G-Cod upfront. Mr. Symanelli, are you with us? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. Members of the Board, Kristen Symanelli, Boston, groundwater, and trust, and we have four letters from the applicant. Okay, thank you. Now let's go to the merits of the OK. Mr. Marancy, there is now one restaurant that the basement is simply being used as storage and mechanical rooms for all the utilities for the entire building will be located in the basement. That's correct, and we comply with coastal flood resiliency requirements, and there is a basement elevation of the 19 feet that was important to eliminate any occupiable space in the basement. The groundwater recharge system, of course, would be located there. Okay, that was, well you anticipated my next question. All right, well, then it seems, are these units rental or condo? These are proposals rental units, Mr. Chairman. And for the record, because it may come up in public testimony, my questions were posed to my clients that they would agree that these units would not be used for short term air, B and B style rentals, my clients agreed for that. It was also requested that my clients agree that this will not be the future site of a billboard, including an electronic billboard, and my clients went on the record with the China Town Resonate Associated Association and agreed to that as well. Okay, all right, and with six units, I mean, I'm sorry, four units, I assume they are all market rate. Yes, these are poor market rate units, and again, the sole Zilli Violet is Austrian parking, and it simply no opportunity to provide parking here. Okay, all right. Mr. Ben, where are the other drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. I just wanted a confirmation that what I'm seeing is xed out is an elevator. It's an accessible elevator. That is correct. I've got to be an elevator, and it's better to arise from providing a facility to the building. Great, no further questions. Okay, any questions on the board? Mr. Hinton, the BBVA raised issues about rear-egress in a rear-sare well? Yes, if we could do a design review on that, if necessary, we'd appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Ben, I'm Boris, did you notice that as well as that? I did, but I didn't see any issues with the rear, but I would just add a pro-ozo if there's a motion taken. Only if you feel this better, Boris. Okay, thanks. All right. Is there anyone here who would like to testify on behalf of an opposition to this project? Good afternoon, Mr. Chair and members of the board. My name is Chulam Huang, I'm a mayor's office and I'm a member of the services. And a better meeting was held by our office on the Spelan-Kai, July 5th. And the applicant has submitted their E-Layer support. We are unaware of any concerns from it. We know we're not at this time, and we're like the third church in the city of work. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, we do have support, whether... Do we have any rain stands? No, we have a rain stands. Okay, Mr. Marancy, before we go to a motion, just to ask you what are the hours, opposed to the rest of the restaurant? I think Mr. Chairman, I don't know, only because I'm doing his own, I will not be doing the licensing work. So that would be a proper subject for the licensing work. I'm sorry I just don't know. Okay, all right, well from his only perspective, that's on an issue. All right, can I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion to approve with a proviso of VPDA design review. And Tanya. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Bedavuraza? Yes. Mr. Stone? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Regiro? Yes. And I'm in favor as well, motion's passed. Thank you. Calling your next three cases, calling VLA132087658-Cliffet Street. There's two companion cases, VLA132087760-Cliffet Street, and VLA132088435-Waveley Street. This is for 58 Cliffet Street. Subdivide existing $7,840 square foot lot. Constructed three-story semi-attached single-family dwelling on $3,640 square feet, he known as Lot D. There will be a five-foot wide strip of land in the day 56 Cliffet Street, Lot C. This will be in a four-level single-family home in partnership. Violation dot 50, section 29. This is for 60 Cliffet Street. This is subdivide in $7,840 square feet. Constructed three-story semi-attached single-family dwelling on $3,600 square feet, known as Lot A. The violation of that will be in section 29, part D. I. This is sufficient. And this is for 35 Waveley Street. This is constructing new affordable single-family home being constructed on a vacant lot, a partnership with the City of Boston, D&D. The Violent Practical 10 section 1, the limitation of the area of accessory users. Medical 50 section 29, the Lot Ripper is insufficient. Medical 50 section 29, Lot Frontages is insufficient. Medical 50 section 29, the Front YOD is insufficient. And Medical 50 section 29, the Side YOD is insufficient. I'm an address for the right-foot. Hello, I'm Josh Smith, I was of our architects, my interest in 315 A. Street in C. Court. I'll be the presenter for these projects. Go ahead, Charles, what are your proposals, please? Okay. So these projects are part of the Department of Neighborhood Developments Waveley Homes Initiative. So they're taking over four empty lots that are owned by the city and putting new, basically single-family houses on them. For the 58 and 60 Clifford, they're single-family roadhouses, with two beds when they have beds, or about 40 nights where they feed each. That would be zoning works, except for the Front YOD setback. We're trying to match the neighbors exact modal alignment, whereas per zoning code, the modal line is set up by leverage buildings that are further away from the streets down a lot of walk away. So we're just trying to match the 14-foot setback of the neighbors, rather than the 20-foot setback for code. Got it. Okay. And what are the other violations that are involved here? Can you just walk us through them? Yeah. So 58 and 60, these two, the only violation is the Front YOD setback. Okay. So that's the down street 35 Waveley, where the lot itself is two-nero per zoning code that anything builds on it. Like, the optimal for a single-family home is 45 feet, and the lot itself is only 37.5 feet. So for that one, we're asking for a Front YOD setback violation to be mobile with the exact neighbors, and we're also asking for a lot with not-fronted insurance. Got it. Okay. And these are all single, these are all currently vacant? Yes. Okay. And these are going to be for sale? Yes. These are reduced cost units that market through the Department of Neighborhood Development, and there's, I'm not certain of the exact reduced amounts. Okay. It looks 80 to 100 percent AMI. Price has haven't been determined yet. Okay. Thank you. All right. Mr. Maraza, how are the drawings? The drawings are adequate, Mr. Chair. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here who has to follow in the half of the projects? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Kishu Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant with the butters and received support. My cousin forwarded a letter of support from the Aboding Neighborhoods and Object Right, and also received support from Roxbury Pathford as well. At this time, we would like to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, here we do have a letter from Robert McRite. Okay. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Solley from City Council of Raj Michael Plierty, Council of the Reconcypoint. All right, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Jack Steadley from Council of America's Office. The council, I would like to go on record and support. Mr. Chair, I have two raised hands. Okay. No, let's go ahead. Okay. All right. Chair, I want to pick a good name. I would just feel the record please. Good morning. My name is Tear Sashel, and I'm a housing director with the Mayor's Office of Housing. This project involves a MoH Land and funding. PWN has worked closely with Roxbury Pathford, who was in support of this project in MoH. She's the name support of this project. Thank you. One more raise. Okay. I think I should not move from outside. Okay. There's so many students themselves. Thank you. All right. Can I have a motion then? I'd like to make a motion of approval. Do you want to include the design review? No. Mr. Chair, I was already reviewing it. Yeah, and D&D has the review process. We don't need to be repetitive. I'll second you, Eric. Okay. This motion is made in second hand on Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Pedro Baraza. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Regiro. Yes. All right. And I too will be in favor of the motion passes. On your next page, calling the OA 11335-28803. This is a new 2.5, two daily growing. I mean, I'm completely, really quite sensitive. The violation of Article 50, Section 453, I ask you to pardon me, please. Article 50, Section 29, the light areas in the profession. Article 50, Section 29, the 49th, the 49th, the racial is excessive. Article 50, Section 29, the use of a lot of the species. Article 50, Section 29, the property art is in the profession. Article 50, Section 29, the side art is in the profession. And Article 50, Section 29, the really art is in the profession. The M&A adjust for the record for it. Yes. Good morning. My name is Andrew Falkenstein. I'm an architect practicing at Seven Ked Street in Brookline. We are here today to ask for a leave for a new construction to family home at eight A.J. in Street. This is a small, two unit building proposed on a small lot. The house is designed in sympathy with men. The house is a small, but the house is a small house. The total square footage, including basement, is 2500, 23 square feet. And that 2500, 23 square feet is split roughly evenly between a lower duplex and a top duplex. So the resulting FAR and a lot would be 1.16. The existing condition is this has been a vacant lot for as long as anyone can remember. And Adrian Street itself is really a paper room. It's unpaved and it is unconnected on two sides. And this would have full frontage on Adrian Street and would help really end a condition where this lot has been used to dump trash and for homeless people to hang out and for illicit activities to occur. It borders other two and three family houses, neighboring streets, and by becoming a used and dwelling unit rather than a vacant lot, it's going to make the entire neighborhood safer. And I do not know of any undesirable effects in the neighborhood that this will bring. We are not proposing to have any on-street parking, but we believe that there is enough on-street parking in the neighborhood and also on Adrian Street itself to accommodate these two new residential units. Okay. So the orientation of the building is not exactly facing Adrian Street, right? That's correct. It actually kicks up for both lot of reasons, but also for massing reasons, we are facing the same way the building is facing around the place. So the front door faces east and there would be a walkway from Adrian's place or from where I'm at place to get to the front door building. Okay. Let me ask you a few questions. There is no parking provided. I mean, the lot is incredibly small, so I can't say what it would be. Is there parking on both sides of Adrian Street? Yes, the best of my knowledge is there is parking on both sides of Adrian Street. Okay. Now the other question is two units, on a very small lot. You've got a part of the unit. One is an extends into the base zone with a bedroom down below, correct? That is correct. Okay. Now what is the height of the basement floor to the grade? How far below ground? If you give me one second, I can answer that question. I mean, looks to be by virtue of the elementary, the elementary, the elementary, the other is completely below grade. Yeah. It's, yeah, what is, it's, it's what it's mostly, yeah. It's, it's pretty much mostly below grade. And what is the height from floor to ceiling in the basement? Believe it's an eight foot ceiling. Eight foot ceiling. Okay. This board does not, it's not particularly thrilled about the living units in the basement in particular bedrooms that are below grade. So this, just to let you know up front. Okay. Ms. Bedar-Varaza, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. I just had a question regarding whether BTD reviewed this project in regards to the public way in regards to the street. Yes. Mr. Domingo, can you answer that? Yes. Yes. I've found the BKB-2D. We have not reviewed this because we didn't see a parking violation to the best of my knowledge on this. But no, we have not reviewed this. Okay. Because one of the questions I have is really access. Currently in the, in Google Earth, it shows we can't really access currently the house. So if we were to pass this, they would have to be street improvement to access, you know, to continue accessibility along the entrance street. It's on the main page currently correct? Correct. Currently it's on page. But you can't, can you actually walk from one side of the street to the other? You could walk. Because the Google images show the block. So if someone, whether legally, I believe it's legally going to be because there's a butter's rights, someone could offense the street. But that would have to be removed from that belief that since we have four butter's rights, we would have the right to take that down. But as it comes in now, it is a dead end street on both sides. But there is a paper rule that goes all the way through. But you would need significant street improvement from the city to make this work. Well, we're not requesting that. We're not requesting this to do anything. If the Boston Fire Department becomes satisfied, they can get a fire truck in front of the house. We're not asking the city for any improvements that was created. So explain to me where this fence is. So as you come in from Google's and you proceed past the lots, there is a fence. I can show you a photograph if you might. I can show you a photograph. Well, if it's part of what was provided, you can't share the screen with your own chat. Is it perpendicular across the street? Yes, it's perpendicular blocking off the end of the street. Correct. No, it blocks assets. That's what that was missing at this point. Correct. And you say that you would have the right to remove that and you don't let it. That's the week. We've done some research and then any butter has a right to this paper rule that can pass. And no one owner has the right to block it off. The road being a private road. All of the others have rights and this person who's blocking access has done so probably for safety reasons. Keeping people off the property, but they're not really entitled to do that. Interesting. Mr. Hampton, I know that the BPDA is waiting on this project. We did. We recommended to not without prejudice. This week, this is actually similar to what happened last week over in Dorchester, where it was a 2000 square foot lot. And we think that two families too much in this and it's kind of ironic. We recommended approval of the one family last week on a 2000 square foot lot. But we think that a two family on 21 hundred square feet is just too much. So we recommended to not without prejudice. This is on a three family 4,000 zone A. I just want to let everyone know that. OK, so you've got a 2000 square foot lot with a two event unit, including basement bedroom. And it's a 3F 4,000 area. OK, all right. Well, Mr. Smith, this comments make sense. I don't want to move to testimony. Is there anyone here to speak on either in favor or in opposition to this project? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. My name is Keisha Santana from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant met with the butters and there was no attendance. He also reached out to my co-zoo and Dudley Street neighborhood initiative. Mike is going with Dudley Street and then Dudley Street neither supported or was an opposition of the project. So there's not really any direct opinion or input from community. But yeah, at this point, we would like to different justments of the board. Thank you. Are you aware of this issue of the fence going across the street? No, I wasn't aware of that. There was a fence. No, no, no. All right. Is there any other testimony? Mr. Chair, I have one raised hand. OK. C. Bob, state your name and address for the record, please. Will you go to the vehicle? Yes. Yes, hi. I was talking about the vehicle BTB. I would like to request some sort of detailed plan because you need 20 feet to get access of the address to any parking area. But since from what I've seen, there is no parking proposed. So anyone getting access to this site would have to walk or use a bike. And as long as it meets a fire department approval, I have no opposition to this. I would like to have one extra fact. The existing condition, which we said is fast off. It's actually gated off. It's actually a gate. And so it is an hour of opening at this point. OK. May I have to be air fee removed for a guy like this? It seems like it's these, they just close the streets. Like I'm looking at it in Google. They block the streets. I think this is a city issue. OK. I mean, it sounds like there are really a number of under-solid issues here. We do reach out to this. OK. I think we've heard, we've heard, we need to know. All right. I think there are a number of under-solid issues here. And the BPDDA recommends an Iowa without prejudice. I mean, perhaps we'll give the applicant the opportunity to sort out some of these issues and come back with a more complete plan on a later date. But I'm interested in an emotion at the moment. Motion for you now. Mr. Geri, do not know the prejudice. I'm sorry. Sorry. I forgot. Yeah. No second. I don't hear a second. If there is no second, I would need another motion. I like to make a motion of approval with provisels. I'm sorry. The first one being a BPD review in regards to Adrian Street access. The other is BPDDA design review to look at the elevation along Adrian Street. So it responds to that frontage. Those are the two provisels. Sorry. The third one, the third one is to now have a habitable bedroom and a basement. I'll second that. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Mr. Ben, Ms. Benemaraza. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Geri. No. I, too, am opposed. I think it's too dense. So the motion does not pass. So the, I mean, the impact, the motion is denied. No. The next case. Hold on, Mr. Jeff. Patient. Yes, thank you. Okay, sorry. I'm good. Following the next case, following BLA 129-110-773-75-83. Mr. Major, I think it's too far. I'm going to have three families. The violation of that is a 50-section of 29. There's no out of area. Medical 50-section of 29. Use the welcome spaces. Now, I go 50-section of 23. 535 from the road. Name and address for the record. There a Mr. McCall on. Anybody from face in street? Where he stands. I'm going to have a call. Thank you for your time this morning. Name and address for the record. I'm going to call 75 face in street. I'm asking for a call. I'm going to call to here. It's actually a 2.5 family. So I'm taking the half family. It's up top and making it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. I'm taking it to a unit. Mr. McCall, are you there? Mr. McCall, are you there? Mr. McCall? I'm out on bus. Have we lost the applicant? Get on. He's back on now. I'm not sure what happened. Yeah. All right. So my question was, how big is the the new proposal for our unit? How big are all the units? I believe it's in the, it's in the notes there. I'm not exactly 100% sure. I know you're about, I would say, 2000s, Griffey Deach. And then, I'm going to say, I'm going to say, 2000s Griffey Deach. And then, when you look up at the top, it's about half that. Okay. So somewhere around, it's 90 inches, 90 inches to the roof. And what is, what is the third floor being used for, um, somehow? I lived up to all my life. I lived in that house since I was 14 years old. I bought it. My mom, back in 17. And, um, that's basically, it was all connected. Okay. So, what is it? Second. Second and third. I'm not going to talk about that. I don't want to get in. I'm going to get a lot of background. I know, as if it, whoever's the source of that, mute themselves, please. Well, so the second and third floor were one unit up until now. Yes. Okay. Um, and what you're putting in a new kitchen and bathroom, uh, on the third floor, is that the plan? Yes. Yes. That's it. Actually already had a bathroom. All that stuff was already up. It was just never made any. There was a kitchen before as well. It's just a kitchen that there's no kitchen. I would have to install electric stove. Okay. Um, and you're saying this is somewhere in the neighborhood of the thousand square feet. What's the floor to, to ceiling height in that, and the house is in the house. The house is in the house. 90. 90. 90 inches. Okay. Um, and you do see the plans for the five protection as well. All right. And where, um, but the house has been assessed as a two family up until now. Yeah. Okay. And, and what do you, what will you do about, um, is there are the separate meters for the two units, two existing units? Yes. And where are they, the basement? Yes, sir. Okay. And now there'll be a, there'll be a third meter out at two, uh, to track the utilities for the, the separate space. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Is there anything in the basement, besides the utilities of storage? Uh, not just utility of storage. That's it. Nothing else is down there. Okay. No, no, no. No plans to do anything else with it. Okay. And you're not doing anything to the exterior. No, no, no, sir. Okay. All right. How are the drawings, Mr. Meta Marousa? Mr. Chair, the plans are adequate. The only, the only question I have was really for the driveway. Yes. So let's get to, let's get to the driveway. You said that seven foot seven is the, uh, where those bump outs are. That's what the, how do you get a car through there? I, I can, if I can see on my screen, I can show you there's two cars that's always in the driver. I'm not sure. And you can get a car back there. Because you can actually have a small pickup truck back there. So, Mr. Chair, Mr. Demickler is spoken. He's got his hand raised. It probably in like this. Uh, yes, uh, Mr. Chair, and members of the board, Bob Demickler, the ACT, seven point seven feet is much too narrow, especially in the climate weather. And in the name of public safety, I request, uh, an aisle for this, uh, proposal. Okay. I mean, seven foot seven is extremely narrow. Uh, what's, what's on the other side of the, the neighboring lot is, uh, you, when you drive past those bump outs, do you end up going over the, the neighbor's property? No, that's my, that's my problem. I have to have a picture in the Inclimate weather with two cars in the driver. I can share with you if you allow me to share my screen. Uh, we, we don't share screens. We, we, we, you know, I can't. Okay, I mean, um, uh, I, uh, uh, Mr. Jameco, your, uh, you, how, how does he even get those cars passed there? Um, um, um, he can't, seven put seven is not adequate, we have a minimum of at least nine feet. Uh, sometimes we're flexible to eight feet, but, um, not seven point seven. Uh, I just won't worry about approval for that. under 8.5 feet. So I can't go along with this. Okay, Mr. DeMigua, may I ask you a question? Sure. So when the house was built, the driveway is already there. So from the beginning, it was inadequate or the change over time. Well, I can't comment on what was there before. All I know is being presented at this point in time. It's a common driveway. All I was going to do was extend it back. No, I mean, we understand. I think we're just a little puzzle how you can get a car pass there. What is the curb cut, by the way? What's the dimension on the curb cut? The existing curb cut. I don't have that dimension, sir. I wish I had to put the picture in there. You would have saw that, oh well, you can't get a car through there. Okay. From the picture, it looks like it's 10 feet. Okay. And it doesn't look like they actually go beyond the bump out in the current configuration, because there's a retaining wall to the left hand side. So I see where there's paving up to the bump out where he might park, but I don't think he can get by either. All right. Yeah. All right. That one explained it. Okay. All right. And that's all right. Is anyone here wants to speak in favor of opposition? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board, Kisha Santana from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I'm the advocate met with the others on August 2nd, where they received support from the flooding neighbors and also met with my co-zue, where he submitted a letter of support on behalf of the face-to-street residents of association and project right. At this time, we would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, second chair, here we do have a couple of others of support. Okay. Anyone want? Mr. Chair, come here before I pick up. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvin to the Council of Lads, Michael Flay and the Director of the Support. Thank you. Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Jack Dudley, Council of the Council of the Office of the Council. I do owe a record to the board. Thank you. Anyone else? All right, one more. One, still Gary. All right. All set. Okay. Thank you. Do I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put a motion forward to approve without the three proposed harkness bases due to the driveway with limitation. I'll second that, Eric. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Ben Amoraza. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Roger O. Yes. And I am also in favor. So Mr. McCall, you're the shifting in from a two to three family has been approved, but not the extended driveway in the back. Okay, sir. Thank you guys so much. Appreciate your time. Okay. Mr. Chair, it's now 1033. Would you like to make your favor, then? Yes. Today we are a six-member board for those of you who are on. You can see that. If you would wish to wait until there's a full seven-member board, you can request administrative deferral and haven't be granted. It takes five votes for a motion to pass. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm going to call the 1033 cases. This is 1030 only for any deferrals that were brought to give you the address first, you're going to deploy this. Right. Yes. Go ahead. I have a 930 case and I can hear my case call 3030 right now. This is the process we go for now. Is there anybody who has a 1030 case that they are deferring or withdrawing? Good morning. Yes. This is Leslie Delaney. Congratulations. Adrenaline. Adrenaline. 329 to 329 A. Columbus Avenue. Okay. Thank you. Hold on to your side. Will the wrecking call be available? Okay. One, three, six, three, six, six, one, three, three, twenty nine to three, twenty nine A. Come on the south. Naminadra for the wrecked place. Thank you. Leslie Delaney Hawkins with a little firm of Pricklesville, TIE, have been an address of one intranational place. We would like to respectfully request an administrative deferral regarding the application for a 329 to 329 A. Columbus Avenue. Can I have a motion please? Motion to defer. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Rueza. Yes. Mr. Dunn. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Regiro. Yes. Can I have two of them in favor? We can have a date. For the date of December 6 at 1130. Thank you very much. I'm welcome. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 1030 cases only? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Can you tell us what you're proposing? I'm proposing to do a first cut. I haven't worked with the city. There was an utility poll and place. For approval, that I have donated moves. And then when I get back to the last part. I got a denial. And so I'm asking you guys the relief. And I can do a two. I'm part is similar to my neighbors and the area. the three families into a chest and I already moved the poll in West West Street lighting to remove the like fold that was in front of the proposed driveway. So the poll has already been moved. It has been. Okay. All right. Can we scroll? Yeah. So let's see what's the width of the driveway at this narrowest point. Hello. Miss Rickers. Hi. Hi. What's the width of the driveway at the narrowest point where the pop out in the house? I believe it's about 14. I'm not. I have. My contractor on the line because I'm not too good with the matter. But it's similar to the same of all the other three families on the street. I have one adjacent from me. I'm across from me. They're both the same. Okay. To which scroll down? Look at the next block land or or up. There we go. Okay. Miss Ben Ross. Can you tell what the dimensions are? I wasn't noted on the on the surrogate plant. So I couldn't tell you that from the Google image of it's very narrow. All right. Miss Rickers. Is your contractor on there because we need to know what the dimensions are in order to make a useful decision. Okay. Let me see right now. I see the curb cut is 10 feet. So that's because. Yeah. That's met the requirement. I think it's if you look at the if you look at the card dimensions. 10 feet curb cut. It has to be anywhere between 7 to have to. Yeah. Yeah. No. You're right. If you sort of just take that and transpose it up to that bump out. That doesn't. It certainly looks. Mr. Jim. I don't see his hand rate. But he could speak on this. And what was his opinion? I don't know if he can erase his hand and on. There he is. Mr. Jim. Yes. Mr. Chairman and members of the board about the maker. We should be first of all kind of what what have to be moved. And secondly, I would like to ask for a lot of background. Yes. Secondly, I would like. Oh, we're in. Secondly, I'd like to request a plan for B.T.D. review as a proposal. I don't think I don't think we can really take much action without a plan with dimension showing the width of the driveway. In particular at the bump out. Can I make a motion and deferred? Yeah. I'm looking at that. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Meraza. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Jerrow. Yep. And I tune that motion passes. So, Ms. Vickers, we will need a better plan that shows that dimensions. In particular, what the width of the driveway is at that bump out in the side of the house. We can't make a decision in the absence of that. So, you know, and date, Mr. Fortune. That is Mr. Chairman. Do December 6th at 1130. Okay. Following the next case, following BLA 133682049 Corbett Street. The different firm offices of one family built a 2.530 edition at the side of the house with full basement and enclosed a portion of the front porch. It says remove the existing room from the place with new gable room and the pipe with higher peak. Violation is Article 669. Front yard is sufficient. Article 669. Bad yard is sufficient. An Article 669. The rear yard is insufficient. They may not just put the right way. My name is Sean Bowden, 49 Corbett Street. All right, can you tell us where you're proposing, please? We're proposing to build an edition on the side of our home, as well as enclosing the back portion of the front porch to create a mudroom. And how big is this edition? So, the edition itself is about 1000 square feet. Okay. Is there a plot plan so that we can see how the edition fits into the overall plot? Yeah, I have a plot plan, yes. I know it's Evelyn. That was something that I noted. It was not given to me the plot plan. It's not in the package. Oh, we did submit that. I have one. Does that know you don't share screens? I know. Unfortunately, you can't share your own screen. We have all we have is what was submitted to us. And if we don't have a plot plan, it's a little bit hard to make an informed decision about the question of side yard insufficient. Why, why don't you, I mean, as long as we're started, what is the dimension between the edition and the plot that on the side yard? What is the side yard dimension? 10.2 feet from the edition to the property line on the side. It's what? I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. 10.2 feet. 10.2 feet. And what's required? I believe it's 10 feet. Okay. That seems I'm having a little bit of trouble making sense of this because the BPDA suggested that there was a encroachment on the side yard that was significant. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like the board, we did not receive the plot plan either. So the planters were looking trying to see how much this would encroach into a side yard set back. It almost looks like it would take that entire side yard out with the open spaces. But basically, we were all swinging blind here, right? We're pretty much, we tried to figure it out. We just couldn't. Can we defer this one too? I see, yes. To the applicant, in order to make a useful thoughtful decision about this, we need a survey of plot plan that shows what the side yard encroachment is given in the new addition. So we're going to have- And also, if you please know on your eleations, what is the height to your highest peak? Yeah, no, I want to understand that. I'm not sure what what got dropped, but 100% included survey. I don't know what to tell you. These are what we have. This is what the architect are to view. This is what's on the screen. So I'm not sure if it's unfortunate, but I think we're going to have to entertain a motion to defer. Tell him moves. Okay, second. Thank you. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Bedar, Mr. Ozza. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Jero. Yes. And I, two of his favourites. I'm sorry, but we really need this to make a useful decision. Thank you. We'll have a date of December 6th at 1130. Make sure you get that information in. I'll send it again. I'm calling an ex-case. I'm calling VLA 118. 327768. Roast Street. This is the rectified six unit. Mr. Fortune, this is a different. Okay. Now, naming out for the record calling VLA 118. 327768 Roast Street. Name and address for the record. Very John. The journey 10th. Road to the road and the entry on behalf of the applicant for 68 Roast Street. We're asking for a, we're asking for a deferral because the project was advertising correctly. And it has to be. Okay. I mean, the truth is, Mr. Poojee, you don't have to have an explanation. Okay. I got it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Can I have a motion to defer? Is there a second, Mayor? Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Bedar, Raza. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Jero. Yes. And I, too, in support of the motion, the motion passes. That table will be December 6th at 1130. Thank you very much. Following the last case, the 930, following VLA 134, 9509, 311-315, Washington Street. This is a renovation of a second floor and the exit is a 33 plus basement. The exit is stolen. This would be converting office space on the second floor, floor one dead room units. The violation of Article 51, Section 16, use the regulations. I have a 51, Section 17, dimensional regulations, and Article 51, Section 56, Office 3, 5, the resolution. Name and address for the right place. Morning, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Board. My name is George Moran. I represent raises 311-1 to partnership. Principal Barrett, Paul Sullivan, John Driscoll, and Lawrence Bold. By joining me on today's hearing is the Project Architect, Derek Rubinov. Mr. Chairman, members of my plan for the owners of the building at 311-315, Washington Street and Brighton. The building is currently a vacant two-story building, most recently occupied by a liquor store in the ground floor and offices above. The proposal is to convert the second-story office use into 411-bedroom artis. The unit sizes would be approximately 774, 793, 794, and 806 square feet. Nothing is currently proposed for the ground floor, the building, which is not in the scope of the permit application for this appeal. Building is located within an NS-1 neighborhood shopping sub-discord under Article 51, the Olston Brighton neighborhood zoning article. The second-story residential use is the conditional under the code. Relief is also necessary for insufficient use of open space and insufficient off-street parking. The building occupies essentially the entire site making the introduction of open space and parking impossible. The site is appropriate for the proposed second-story residential use as there are many mixed-use buildings in the immediate area with a three stories of residential uses above ground floor commercial. The site is served by numerous bus streets and microbes with six bus stops within one block and is within walking distance of the Warren Street stop on the MBTA's green line. I'll call it and take any questions that the board may have. Okay, so you're only looking for approval for what is proposed on the second floor, not the first floor, correct? That is correct. Okay, but I mean, I assume it's the same owner. What's the long term? They're looking to keep it commercial? Yes, sorry, the ground floor will remain commercial. Sorry, my clients are currently working with potential tenants. But they do wish to convert the second floor and hold it as residential apartments. Okay, and there's the change of the footprint of the building. No, okay. Okay, all right, very straightforward. How are the drawings miss Ben Beraza? Mr. Chair, the plans are adequate. I just had a question regarding the units, are they rentals or home ownership? Yeah, these would be right-old units. Great. Oh, sorry, go ahead. No, I'm done. Thanks. Okay, and access to the second floor is through the lobby. It could be the ground floor, right, an annual footprint. Yeah, okay. Okay, any questions to the board? Is anyone here to testify, either in favor opposition? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Well, the chair I do have one raise to get. Okay. Annabella is. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Well, rock. The chair I do have one raise to get. Okay. Annabella is. Can I take your name and address for the record, please? Chair, members of the board, Annabella, go on to the right and ask the approval of the association. We'd like to go and reference for it. We support adding residential to right and center. We have to support it for the businesses that people have been there. We support the notion. Thank you. That's what you meant. I would appreciate it. Thank you. I'll show you. Can I have one? I have one. I have one. Okay. I'll go and select the other six. Okay. We're getting a fair amount of background noise again. If there's anybody who was helping you to make sure that there's no entering the background. Okay. I guess that failed. I'm not sure what's going on or his end. We lost him. Okay. So we don't have, we don't have an initial testimony. And we do not. Okay. Then I will entertain a motion. Is it chair links to make the motion of approval? Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Meda-Raza? Yes. Ms. Don? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Ejiro? Yes. I am in support also of the motion passes. Thank you. Thank you. I call it 1030 hearings. Call on the first case. Call on the DOA 1380-993-377-Nabrit Street. This is a change of article for four units. Renovating the existing structure. Directly rearredation with rear-view decks. Violation of article 53, section 56. Parts 3, 5, whose insufficient article 53, section 8. And then that 5 was in a 3 out of 2,000 subjects. Article 27, Jesus is in East Boston High Court. Article 53, section 9, the additional all the areas insufficient. Article 53, section 9, the 4th area, should be excessive. Article 53, section 9, the side yard of the institution. And Article 53, section 9, the rear yard. The additional all the areas, section 9, the side yard. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. It's Richard Lins. 2.45 Somnesty, East Boston, the half of a petitioner, David Gerson. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a pre-existing three-family dwelling. We can jump to page four. I'm looking at the current conditions of the existing site. Our proposal would involve a complete rehabilitation and renovations existing structure. This is located in the flood hazard district. And therefore no, a high-level space is committed in a lower level. We have looked at how to address this building in a way not only create the upgrades that would be necessary for life safety and a full-rather-based building to also preserve a height of keeping us at three stories, including the roof decks that we're proposing without head houses. If we jump to the next slide here we got it up. So our work we're showing is a rendering of the proposed change. This is pretty consistent with the architecture along the new buildings along the section of Maverick Street. And we feel that the design and what we're showing here is definitely a change from what presently exists today. This will ultimately be a secretary-indicated four units, it's currently three. We're proposing a two-bedroom on the first level, a three-bedroom, about 14-yard square feet, a second level, and two single bedrooms, roughly between 680 and 720 square feet on the upper level. Each of the upper levels will have access to the roof deck. The lower levels will have rear decks as well as access to the rear four-yard. With respect to the relief that's necessary to Mr. Chairman, because this is located at 3F-2000 District, we do meet the requirements for minimum lots as at 3,000 square feet. However, we do require variants to change the occupancy from three to four units. Our proposed FAR, which is generally consistent with the FARs of the surrounding neighborhood, is at 1.59, it's in excess of the one that's permitted under the code. While we do have a side-yard condition that crystal exists and about just under our foot on the right side, we will extend the back of the building, as you can see in this elevation here, to bring the building back a little bit further. Because we're going to maintain that plane, any of that new addition will also require relief from the side-yard setback of 2.5 feet. With respect to the rear yard, although we do propose that decks you can see in this elevation, we are showing about 23 feet in the rear yard, just slightly below the 30 foot that's required. But again, that will be used by lower-level levels, looking at its one and two for shared courtyard access. Last, the now least is parking. Building pleasantly as a non-conforming parking condition, no parking space is located. Because our O53 only requires the additional parking space for the proposed additional unit, we're requesting a variance of the one parking space, even if it were feasible to add a parking, we would be creating a curb cut on the street, which would actually take in a way on a street parking from the surrounding neighborhood. I'm happy to answer any questions from the board, Mr. Chairman. Okay, can we go back, scroll back up to the rendering from looking at it from the rear? We are right there. Yeah, are there two separate roof decks on the building? That is correct. So we do have the two single bedroom units on the upper level, Mr. Chairman, the first roof deck that's supposed to be the front is accessed by a hatch. We are showing a spiral staircase that did here, the architect mentioned in previous case, that the spiral staircase was not something that was preferred. So we're happy to revisit that and look at a hatch as well for that. Okay, okay. No, no, no, you answered my question. I couldn't see how the access to the front one was being done, but I now see there's a little bubble there in the middle. That must be the hatch. Okay, yes, and then there's the issue. The rear one, whether that should be internal or exterior spiral, but we'll, okay, we'll deal with that. And these units on the top, so the other than the extension to the rear, the footprint is the site is unchanged. That is correct, Mr. Chairman. We originally proposed this as a four-story building through the community process that we agreed to maintain the three-story height based on the model commas on the grid. All right, so in terms of contextual, it's roughly the same height as the neighboring building about a building. That's correct. All right, and there's no having all space in the basement. What are all the utilities there? So this will be designed according to the floodplain requirements. We've internal utilities in the units as well as just storage and permissible use in the basement only for floods out. Okay, that was my question. So all the utilities will be internal to the individual units. That's the plan. All right. Okay, thank you. Ms. Beter-Barrassa, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate and you pretty much raised all the questions I had. So, don't forget to write a comment. Sorry about that. No, it's okay. It's good. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to test, it's fine, favor or not, position? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I'm Mr. Beter-Barrassa. The board, this is the time I've been eating with the mayor's office of the Napalwood Service. Our office hosting and the butters, meaning for this project on May 4th, we had two of our expertise in the meeting and both opposed the project due to the density of the street and the lack of parking. The most importantly, the lack of the character of the street meaning the design, they didn't really like the design. The applicant also met with the Jeffers Point Avaly Association twice. The membership ultimately voted to oppose the project with 11 residents voting in favor and 18 voting in opposition. The residents opposed it, felt that the project is too big for the lot size. The lack of parking and the building does not fit with the character of any vote. And at this moment, our office will be for a judgment to the board. Thank you. So, Mr. Lens, let me ask you a question in a way of those comments. I thought you would say that the design was sort of in keeping with other buildings in the neighborhood, but it appears that some people feel it's out of context. I suppose I can't argue with people's opinions on the issue of design. Mr. Chairman, there is a photo, I don't know if you want to go back to it. And if you have your iPads, I'm going to look at the context in the neighborhood. The building immediately to our right is similar design in architecture. There are a number of buildings as you go down, a map of the street that also have a very similar design. The original proposal for this project was on for four stories at five units. I don't know what that is, I understand. I think if you look at, I would look at, but Mr. Lens, let me interrupt you right there. But that picture that we're looking at on the right, that's a rendering. Is there a proposal for a sort of gazebo-like structure on top of these rift decks? I'm sorry, that's not a rendering, that's the building to our right. Actually, we're showing the existing... Oh, that's the ones that are left, okay. Are there gazebo-propos? No gazebo-propos. Next, we're having gazebo-propos. I'm just proposing. Okay, all right, no, no, no. I mean, so you answer my question. All right, and is there anyone else who would like to testify? He could score a guess. Project. Okay, Secretary, you have those letters at the main dot of the program. Okay, thank you. I believe the BPD can also wait until it's the Chairman. Yep. And no other rift stands, Mr. Hampton? No, no rift stands. That's a true one. Would you like me to go on record, Mr. Chairman? Yeah, we recommended approval with design review hoping that the access to the rift deck would be internally set of the spiral rift deck, spiral stairs. So for the rift deck, so you have to have to reach one. Yep. Yes. All right, if there's no other testing money, the motion. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal of BPD design review to begin to address some of the concerns of the residents in terms of this context, and to provide inter-access to the rift, not through an exterior spiral stair. Is there a second? That's a second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Better, Maraza. Yes. Ms. Don. Ms. Don. Yes. Okay, Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Gerrero. Yes. And I'm also in favor of the motion passes. Thank you very much. I'm going to face calling the LA-1328495-79 Newbury Street. Mr. Remove the existing two-story storefront and replace with a new bump, that was two-story storefront addition, erected two-story exterior elevated shaft. By the violation of the article 9 section 1, reconstruction and extension of an occupying building, out of the 15 section 15 dash 1, before the ratio is excessive, out of the 13 section 1, the front yard is efficient and out of the 32 section 4, this is if you cut out the ability. The name and address of the right. Mr. Chair, I need to reach myself. Mr. Chair, I will also need to refuse myself. This is their motion and the firm. Yes, we then need a motion and firm because we are now a four-member board. So can they just help make a motion and the firm? Yeah, I agree with it. Second. Color roll. Do we lift my? Could they be close? Yes, we should. You see, I have to disconnect the reconnect. I mean, we can obviously do that. You're going to give them a day. 11th date of the 6th of the 11th 30. And while I have seven members that day. That's correct. Okay. Mr. Chair, if I may, Ryan Gosdon behalf of the applicant, I didn't know if there was any possibility of an earlier date prior to the 7th or 6th, but that's the earliest possible. Unfortunately, we are at that point where... Right, I will, there is my internet was getting into a fight with me, but I think to the moment by prevail. Okay, so we are in motion to defer and take the roll call. Hold, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Well, I can't ask, Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Gerro. Yes. And myself, that's four votes, but under the circumstances, we need to defer whether you were Q's or not. Mr. Rader, the furl requests anyone. Yes, and it's going to be December 6th at 11th 30. It is 7 member for that date. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the LA1319691340 West Second Street, this repair replacing existing roof top deck on flat rubber roof, expanding existing deck by 600 square feet. The new deck is still on a sluper stud and flat rubber roof, decking to be can cost composite, and it's going to be a five foot fall tariff at third wing the entire roof. Violate 9.68, section 8, the rear yard and the name and address of the record. Mr. Gerro, the pure construction, 875 Mass Out Boston. All right, can you tell us what you're proposing? In regards to the American wall, the American wall is already there. It's about 56 inches high, surrounded entire building. Is it solid or? Yes, solid. Solid one. It's in the middle. Probably two by six or metal stud kept off and the inside has a clockwork on the inside. It's probably about a foot thick. All right, but it's an existing condition. It is an existing condition around the perimeter of the whole entire building. Okay. There are an existing floor or I think it's foot decks up there right now, basically a sleeper and then a decking a job of it and none of them have any rails on them at all. What I'm a fool, you know, go ahead. Hello? Mr. DePiro, we've lost you. Can you get me out? I'm not going to hear you. Okay, sorry about that. So I'm proposing you just to repair the existing deck that's there and then add on additional, as you can see in the structural drawing. Okay, so we're looking at the top right, the existing deck is a smaller portion. Smaller, so the proposed deck is you're almost tripling this size, right? Correct. Yeah. Okay. And there's no, is it all not invisible from the street because of the bear? It is. Yes, it's only a sleeper which is a two by four, I think it has a two by four and then a decking on top of it. Okay, so it's completely abstracted view from the street. Yes, correct. Correct. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Metaboraz, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings look accurate? Well, not really accurate because it shows a parapet as lower in height, but also looking at the Google Earth image, the parapet looks still very, the height looks less than what was just mentioned in terms of five feet. So it would be great just to get that confirmed or we can put that in emotion. I can go back out there and put a tape to it and give you a measurement. Okay, so you would say 56 inches. Yes. Come on. Okay. All right, any other questions on the board? Is there anyone here to testify? The emergency, Mr. Chair, members of the board, I'm Anna Wei with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, or an else held in a butters meeting for 340 West Seconds Street unit 25 on August 1st. The meeting had no time to use except for City Council staff. I received a call from a director of butter who opposes the staff being expanded and who said they never received a flyer about the butter's meeting. The same since neighborhood association is strongly opposed to the expansion of this rub deck at this time. We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, I can you. But this strong opposition is based on what? Thies, access and noise. Okay, and can you can you tell us whether it is an impairment of walls really high enough to to obstruct the view or is it not the case? I do not know. I'm sorry. Okay. Okay. All right, no, that's fine. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chair, Secretary, here we do have one letter from Council of Plains Office and upholding the project. Okay. Anybody else want to test it on? Mr. Chair, I do have one raised hand. Okay. Anna, if you could state your name that I just for the record please. Good morning, my name is H.M. members of the board. Anakal Leran from Council President Flynn's Office. The councilor would like to go on track for an oceasing proof that has been a long source of loud noise at all hours and these services and pressure removal issues for South Boston, which were exacerbated by the significant degree by the pandemic. South Boston has seen your significant quality of life issues for years due to loud noise parties. Both the and many of us creation have expressed opposition to the proposal and indicated that grantee not broke for the expansion of a group like will sit about pregnant or step for other people. Both at the very same building and in the surrounding neighborhood to increase the ice with further impact to the neighbors. However, neighbors should put a concrete theory practice as a single prior to that other meeting. As a unique meeting that I'd prefer to do daily. The results at the end of what was like for the meeting with neighbors in our office plan to expand the group's deck. The office has a record of posting proof decks and expansions like this over the last several years due to a form of mentioned quality of life issues. Loud noise at all hours. You have been the nice and good couple of hours. Thanks. Okay. I'm going to get a lot of background in my screen. Okay. Thank you for the councilor of post. Thank you so much. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chair, members of the board of council, the city council of large, Michael Clarity, due to the article 68 violations as well as echoing the sentiments of councilor of councilor of police office and the or on the neighborhood opposition, the council of the electoral reckon opposition. Thank you. Anyone else? It's just Jeremy Piero. I'd just like to no no no no no no no it's okay. I mean we know what the project is. I mean this is a pretty substantial expansion of an existing deck. What is the current, well Mr. Piero, I do have one question. The current access to this deck is what? It's truly head house. The existing head house. Yes. Yes. Anything existing? What's existing support footage again through the existing deck? Um, that's 14. Obviously. I think the dimensions were on the drives. Yeah, I think it was 14 by 16, about 200 and 60. Oh I see. Yeah, it's about 300. Yeah, 300. Yeah, I see that. Actually, the dimensions were not underdrying, but the nearby existing decks are noted, which is about 300 square feet. For the, okay. And the, and I said the expansion is some 600. So it's, yes, correct. We're like inside. So four times. Yeah, yeah. Okay. All right, can I have a motion please? I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the EDA design review to reduce the deck size and to, um, and to confirm that there's no, and without a building code violation. So that's just to make sure that the parapids have 42 engine. Okay. You have a suggestion about how much to reduce the deck size? I would let BPDA design review, uh, look at that closely. Okay. Thanks. But I think that would address some of the residential concerns. Yeah, all right. All right. I think that's, uh, Mr. Hampton, I'm sure you're capable of handling that. Whether it's the design. All right. Take a second. Do I not hear a second? I guess there is no second. Can I have another motion? I'll make a motion for dial with, uh, with help right here. Okay. And is there a second to that? I'll second that air. Okay. Mr. Fortune? Yeah. Mr. Berraza? Oh. Mr. Dung? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Gerro? Yes. And I support that too. So, um, so you'll need to come back with, I think, I think the sentiment is for a significantly reduced proposal. Um, all right. Let's move on. I call the next three faces. Into the wrecking B.O.A. 134 2905 1160 Blueville Avenue. There are two companion cases. B.O.A. 134 2982 7. Front and X Street and B.O.A. 134 2993 11. Front and X Street. This is the 1160 Blueville. And I'll have this is a change in youth and spoken system interior fit up of burning existing space. It's a citizen's bag with accessory ATM. Accessory drive through ATM teleline offices. Respirant break from the violation. Is not equal 60 616. And it's still repotting of neighboring lots. It's been used. It's been particle 60 716. The use condition of the bank. This is for seven Pontonac. This is the scope of the work. It's just a reconfiguring the existing parking lot to create new delineated parking spaces and be an accessory drive through bank ATM. The violations are the same as the first and 11. Front and X is the same purpose and scope. I'm sorry, in violation. Naman had this for directly. Good morning members of the board. My name is Rebecca Lee. I'm an attorney with men's with an address of one financial center. And this proposal involves a long vacant floor of fast food restaurant building. No changes to the exterior of the building. The reason for the coupling of these zoning requests is that although this is one property, you can go back to the prior plan. It's three discrete mods even though it operates as one. The owner, our landlord, has not consolidated the lots. Therefore we end up with ancillary parking that is in effect, functioning as accessory parking. This property has been vacant for over a decade. It is proposed to be converted into a full service citizens. Bank, it is in a neighborhood shopping district with many commercial uses nearby. It's also in a gateway overlay district which points to the prominent location in the Madapetan community and the urgent need for this to be revitalized and turned into a use that will serve the community. These are existing elevations of the building, which was a former KFC. And as we move forward with this presentation, you'll also see what the current conditions are like, which are pretty dismal. Both with respect to the building and if we continue on, you'll also see the current state of the parking lot and the environments, which is basically an attraction for news use which is disturbed nearby residential neighborhoods. So citizens have signed a lease and is prepared to move forward with extensive interior renovations to convert this into a bank branch. You'll see the existing building footprints, a traffic pattern that has vehicles coming through with 11 parking spaces and they can drive to a drive up, an ATM machine. And then traffic leaving can separately move beyond that and then exit onto Blue Hill Avenue in a very turn only configuration. So as you can see, there will be extensive landscape improvements as well, a much smaller traffic trash enclosure because it won't have all of the debris and trash related to fast food. They'll also be at night time depository. So we do not feel that this will be a detriment to the neighborhood. In fact, it will enhance the neighborhood provided in the community service and also result in the upgrade and revitalization of long vacant, prominent property. And I have members of the citizens team from the real estate, security and other realms, including the area of vice president, in place the board has any questions for them as well. But here at elevations of what it will look like, signage application will come in separately. Okay, well you just answered one of my questions. So there will be no change in the exterior element in signage. Correct. Correct, I will be. And that's going to be a separate application. Absolutely. Okay, all right. Well, let me say the first off, going given a number of banks, including unfortunately my own are eliminating branches in minority neighborhoods. It is very nice to see that citizens are heading in the opposite direction. So I just, you know, for the record, that's a plus. What hours will be the hours of operation? It will be typical bank branch hours. I'm not sure that we've allowed Alejandro or Sepo to be a panelist, Stephanie. You can speak to more specifics of that. There is a 24 hour ATM lobby. No, I understand the 24 hour ATM. Sometimes some branches seem to be having maybe one evening a week or a Saturday morning of making the veil of for people who are working full time during the day. Is that is that envisioned here? My understanding is that the bank branch hours here will be the similar to the existing bank branches of Codman Square. Okay. Stephanie, can we make Alejandro or Sepo a panelist so he can specifically answer that question? He's on set. May I give you a name on your address for the record? Hello. Hello. Okay, where are he? Hello. He was elevated to a panelist. I'm not sure where he went. Did you unmute yourself? Alejandro? All right. Well, maybe he can get on. Let's keep going with the questions. Okay. I can tell you. Alejandro. Alejandro. Alejandro, there he goes. Okay, I'll have him. Can you tell us what the hours of operation was branchalink? 9 to 4 Monday to Friday, 9 to 12 on Saturday, closed on Sundays. Okay, so there is Saturday morning hours. Sorry, that's good. What about the drive up ATM and the ATM access? So those 24 hours are good to get shut off at some point. ATM access and drive through is 24 hours. Okay. Do you have monitoring in the parking lot? What cameras and stuff to make sure people are monitoring there, especially after hours that they just come in through their business and leave? I believe we have director Maya from security on and yet he's our monitor of the director's answer to live monitoring on that. Is there is there a command list? Derek has not checked in. I don't know. Derek, we're here. Derek? All right, well, let's see. He goes. He's on. He's on. Can they move the address for the record and please slide Mr. Gerald's question? Derek? Yes, good morning. This is Derek Lamar from one citizen's bank weighing Johnson and Rhode Iron. I am a physical security manager for a citizen's bank. To answer the question that was posed, yes, there will be cameras on the interior and exterior of the building that will exceed federal regulations and they will be recorded, recorded 24 by seven with a 90 day retention period. So, answer your question, Mr. Derek? Yeah, I just, I've seen in the past where 18 but branches where people don't just use the, you know, they hang out there afterwards and things like that. So, I didn't know if there was some monitoring that happens after I was where if people are ordering in the parking lot, they would keep people moving. Citizens also has a third party vendor that runs security car patrols. And so, this branch will be added to their route as other branches are as well. Great, thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions on the board? How the drawings miss better rather? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Anyone here in testify either in favor or opposition of the project? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Eric James, the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for 1160 Gourville App had an emergency meeting on August 15th of this year and they met with the Greater Madam Pan Neighborhood Council on the Blue Surin Gardens Neighborhood Association. The GMNC voted to support the project with the proposal for direct input for the property Boston Transportation Department regarding the exiting of the parking lot on the Blue Hill App, who's starting guardians elected to support the project as long as they can ensure that they will secure the parking lot as they do have concerns about security issues of the neighborhood. We do have a total of one letter of support in zero letters of opposition at this time. The mayor's office is elected to the burns of the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you. The Chair, Secretary, we do have a couple of letters of support. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Solner, the City Council, I can make a fly. Council go ahead and support. Mr. Chair, I do have two raised hands. Gary, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name and address for the record, please. Yes, my name is Gary Walker. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Gary Walker, Electricians and Technicians, and focal one on three. I'd like to speak and strong support citizens has been a great user of our services over the years, creating many, many jobs for the local city of Boston, Gary. Thank you very much. I appreciate your time. Anyway, we have one more. Latina, if you can stay your name and address for the record, please. Good morning. I'm Pat Malinsong, 34th Berger Street, Mayor of Hand. The GMC has supports this proposal with the supervisor that the Boston Transportation Department review it. There was concern during our discussions about the exiting and entering and exiting both coming out to Blue Hill Avenue instead of turning onto Frontinets Street. Our understanding is that Frontinets Street is a one way, but we still believe that the BTD should have the last say, as that is a very busy section of Blue Hill Avenue. I, by the way, wafted that area from Medicaid and Square to be three, six days a week. So I am well aware of the traffic of both persons and cars. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. Is it possible to have BTD talk about this project because we did receive the feedback from Hampton in regards to traffic lights? I mean, I think what we can do is our provides of the BTD review. Do you want to read Jeff Hampton's recommendation? Mr. Hampton? Yeah, Mr. Chair, thank you very much. Our recommendations for approval would provide a work concentrating more on the parking area rather than use. The signage will come to us anyway from ISD, but we recommended that a 10-foot curb cut be on Blue Hill Avenue that it's made one way and that the accompanying companion curb cut be on front, knack, and limited also the 10 feet. And then, of course, we'd ask for screening buffering and, you know, permeate surface. All right, we're all about community motion, so. So what, well, with that, I just wanted to have that on record. I like to make a motion for approval with two proviso, one is BTD review of the park in layout in terms of ensuring that there's good traffic flow and pedestrian safety. And the second is to ensure that there's adequate lighting and security when there's transactions of money, so that includes deposit box ATM. And then, I guess, a third one would be screening at the rear of residential property. Yeah. Okay, very good. Is there a second to that? I'll second. I assume that includes a VPA design review. Anyways, just, okay. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Forchand. Yes, Mr. Bedaburaza. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes, Mr. Rujero. Yes. And I too, I'm in support. And again, I'm pleased to see that there is an additional range in my minority community, which have been underserved in the past. Motion passes. All you need to tell me an XK is going to be away. One, three, four, five, eight, two, one, 24, 54 C1 row. This is rebuilding the existing forges at the rear of the building, close the first floor, fourth, or additional living area for uniform. At the 65 section nine in the lot of areas of the division. At the 65 section nine in the additional lot of areas of the division. At the 65 section nine, the floor there ratio is expensive. At the 65 section nine use, roll, and space is efficient. At the 65 section nine inside the other division. And at the 65 section nine, the radio is insufficient. Name an adjunct for the record. Good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. I'm the architect for the project representing the owner Jose Garcia. All right. You want to tell us a little bit about the proposal? Yes. This is a traditional three-decker. It has three units each one's 1130 square feet. As you could see on the plot plan, due to the unusual shape and size of the lot is what triggers a lot of these existing non-conformities. We're not planning to expand the footprint of the house, but instead we're kind of triggered by the decrepit condition of the rear porches. They need to be rebuilt. And at this time, the owner who lives on the first floor would like to enclose that portion of the first floor since he has a growing family and is in much need of additional living space. The first floor uses the yard and they take great care of it. They are very well liked in the neighborhood. And then the umber two levels will still have their balconies for outdoor space. Are the are is the size of the porches? We're going to say the same? That is correct. There'll be no change to the overall footprint of the building. Okay. That's an interesting plot plan. Yes it does. I think they squeeze that one in at the end of the run. Yes. Yeah, I guess so. Can we scroll up please? Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, seems pretty straightforwardness. Better browse if you get a chance to look at drawings. Yes. The drawings are adequate. Okay. Any questions? Any questions in the board? Anyone here to testify? Either for or guest. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board. George Wynn with the mayor's office and the bed services. This hosted in the butters meeting for the proposal into July. And her support presents the same works areas of association has issued a letter of support at this time our office would for adjustments to the board. Thank you. So, Chairman, members of the board, this is Joe McGatron with City Council Frank Baker's office. Would like to go on record and support. Mr. Chair, Secretary here, we do have support letter. No, there is no position. Whether the proposition I say. Okay. All right. Anybody else want to testify? If not, let it take a motion. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Second, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Gerrero. Yes. And I am to a support motion passes. Thank you very much. All right. Next two cases calling BLA13613364. Ask my pocket. The companion case BLA13613436. Ask my pocket. This is for four in six the same purpose and same violations. This erect a new three story growing. The three units aren't redacted. We pocket parts of riff. There's an easement for the road for driveway access to re-apartment. The violation is Article 6569. Useful spaces in sufficient and Article 6569 beside the out of his institution. Name and address for the record please. We're going Mr. Chairman members of the political attorney, John Pogini on behalf of the applicant for four in six Ashmont Park in Doha Chesta. The zoning here is three family records 3000. So the last Ashmont Park is 4,119 square feet. Six Ashmont Park is 4,219 square feet. For point of contact these properties will last three minute walk to Ashmont's train station and they're one street away from Doha Chesta Avenue. As you all may remember a different proposal came to fill this board in March of this year and the board and the BPD recommendation may have played they wanted any particular proposal to adhere to the three FD zoning. At that time we're proposing floor units in each building and have nine zoning violations associated with this application. Thank Park proposal is to build one three family building on each lot. Unit three and both units and buildings will have a private roof deck and as you will see from architectural drawings we have revised our application going from floor units to three and the design now conforms with the three FD designation. Additionally each unit will come with a designated parking spot and conforms in the project conforms adult parking and dimensionary climate to a big section of side yard and that is between the two buildings to a limit curb hats on the street we're doing a joint easement we're parking in between that does not affect the the letters and also open space was required as 576 five hundred and 76 square feet for dwelling in we're opposing three hundred and forty square feet again we're from nine violations to two and as you will see from the BPD recommendation they are now recommending approval with designer due the last time they recommend Nile as far as the unit programming unit one four hundred and ten square feet three bed two bath unit two fourteen oh five square feet three bed two bath unit three fifteen hundred and forty square feet three bed two bath and finally the units were to find the minimum so it'll be on a ship for this neighborhood any questions I'm happy to answer and I think Peter van Gogh from van Gogh studio architects is on the top okay well you answered most of my questions I recall this case and I recall that we rejected it in the form that you presented last time this seems to be speaking to some of the changes that were requested so I'm glad to see that remind me once again the size of the units the unit laying their roughly 14 10 14 oh five and 15 40 and they're all three beds to that okay and the basement was used for utilities or insurance yes for care it's correct yep okay all right how are the drawings miss miss better veraza is it chair that drawing to adequate I do have a question regarding trash where do you imagine trash relocated for these two property and Peter van Gogh is on the call he could answer that uh sorry uh John it's Eric it's all right we have we need to imagine uh trash yes yes Eric back to nine sackville street Charlestown our decorative project we'd imagine trash adjacent to the rear entries imagining that people would probably drop the trash off on their way uh to their cars and then they would just take it out to the front through the asphalt ramp or through the driveway probably through the driveway I'm more likely but could also use the side ramps okay thank you let's see yes I've heard cut for the driveway healthy okay all right any other questions on the board is anyone here to testify either in favor or in opposition yes yes I'm here members of the board George wing with the maize off snippet services our office hosted in a butters meeting for sick falls over last November and also this past August a butters express concern in the high-end density of the structure and number assigned onto a petition opposition a number of neighbors express support from more units close to public transit and the applicant has revised and presented their plans at the Navy and Civic organizations detailing minor violations zoning that violations as recently as last week the St. Mark's Area Civic Association has issued a letter of opposition at this time our office would defer judgment to the board let me just be clear about this position based on the original proposal of the current proposal opposition still remains so it's quite contentious I think so both proposals really so kindly in in the past okay thank you if you have secretary here we do have those letters that the maize office is focused it's in opposition opposition in support okay and those in their current they're based on the current proposal correct what I get thank you thank you mr. Chairman Joe McGebron City Council Frank Baker's office would like to go on record and support of the applicant thank you mr. Chairman members of the board also of the City Council allow Michael clarity who to the changes made made who the changes made by the component of the council I'd like to go record support thank you mr. Chair I have six raised hands six yes okay all right well we'll try to go through all of them but I would say if people are expressing the same use or someone came before them please just read to show you supporter opposition we don't need to hear the same thing said twice so go let's go ahead all right ross if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please ross okay Dale if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please Dale senator shelke who has not park and door to serve and direct the butter simply put these buildings are way too large for this tiny narrow dead end street we have collected and submitted to the board 57 six teachers of the butters and neighbors both state and members along with 21 pages of detailed opposition to the project the opposition include 26 of the 30 purely residential properties in the butter zone plus the doctors and centers office at the corner of Atman Park and Atman Street at the park is Z-Nero with street in all of door cluster with the curb to curb width of only 16 feet it is only 224 feet long there about two dozen streets in door cluster with width approximately 20 feet and their remainder are at least 25 and a half feet wide when any car is parked on the street it presents a problem for emergency and city utility vehicles getting down the street unless you drive up on the sidewalk there's too wide to get past the first car in 2014 I resident self-help the roof and while the ambulance was able to get the house our truck had to stop and atman street and a similar access for fire issues happened on pervary street on Sunday with the fire there that street is 26 to the half feet wide all Burke the commissioner fire fire commissioner in Austin and the globe yet today yesterday because of the tight street they couldn't get an aerial ladder up there because of the wires in the fall here pervary street and it are all 26 feet wider than on okay okay I think thank you you've been very clear and this your opposition continues to be based on the curb of also and not only love previews for right okay all right all right next one buzz are you on and Dale Dale is very articulate in this opposition to talk about people things that he said yes Rosalind Hill nine Drake street and I just approve everything that Dale just mentioned okay thank you Ken if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please hey Ken foley 218 and 220 house on street I'm for this project thank you Dan you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please Dan Rue in 27 crews street I'm in support of the project thank you Sam you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I just for the record please hi this is Sam Thorsten I'm from 229th Center Street and I approve of this project I've met both the butters and the developers I think great great addition to the PV Sphere neighbor thank you thank you all right Alex you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I just for the record please hi my name is Claudio Paulis we are on Ashman Park across the street now so we can actually diagonally to buildings on don't dance that out and and break the street and we approve of the project for many reasons once the area needs to look thing in number two the shenny nizy rev you knew and number three I think all the opposition back validity thank you very much you thank you john you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I just for the record please john yes this is john you have an art and we sweet old property directly across the street once three ashman park and I'm totally opposed to this unit things these buildings I totally agree with Dale and also the size of the buildings are too big for the street it's going to add more problems with as Dale mentioned trash removal snow removal street cleaning rubbish recycling so I'm totally in opposition of these two buildings all right thank you very much thank you is that one one more okay Linda Linda you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I just for the record please Linda sorry sorry I was on the um we're just finished all into ashman park I'm totally against these projects and I think that that the majority of the houses in the but also 26 out of 30 are a host of this project but my husband said the dentist the doctor if you have new information to provide your husband was very articulate so we heard it that's all I'm sorry okay thank you very much okay can I have a motion please um I'm going to make a motion to approve of BPD or design review and maybe some BTD review for some of the issues that someone that you just put up I'll second down Mr. Fortune yes miss better maraza yes miss Don yes Mr. Robinson yes Mr. Ruggiero yes and I tell him in favor of the motion passes um Mr. Chair it's now 1144 before I call the 1130 if you like to do your statement uh we are today a six-member board uh full-floor is on um so uh anyone who who requests is entitled to an administrative deferral until such time as uh the board is complete yeah Mr. Chair I just want to make sure I'm a clerk because I don't know how long we're going to get into these cases but we all going to be missing a board member at one apart I believe that's not so one so um yes but we're already it's a lot we haven't even hit the uh yeah four or five cases well no okay uh I'm going to call the 1130 cases for any guys doesn't oh sorry sorry I'm going to call the 1130 cases for any deferrals or withdrawals if you can give me the address first this is the 1130 cases only 67 apples street Mr. Sagittair thank you for the record calling DOA 1339798 67 applicant street name and address for the record for him morning members of the board um Mr. Chairman Richard Linz 245 Sumner Street police boss then requesting an administrative deferral motion to defer is there a second second before again yes better we're as a yes go on yes Robinson yes we're here oh yeah and I have two in favor of the motion passes this will be heard on December 6th at 1130 also I have 32 all our mr. Secretary okay for the record calling DOA 135 1215 32 to 32 C all right three name and address for the record please Mr. Chairman members of the white Richard Linz 245 Sumner Street police boss then on behalf of the petitioner um mr. Chairman we're requesting withdrawal of 32 polar motion for denial without prejudice thank you fortune yes then we're as a yes done yes yes yes we're here oh yeah and I too in favor the motion passes thank you thank you for great there are any other deferrals who withdrawal 30 cases if you can give me the address first please mr. Chairman for 26 union avenue to make a plan I'd like to defer okay thank you for the record calling DOA 56542 26 union avenue name and address for the record please uh Fred Frederick better line 26 union have to make a plan is there a motion to defer again fortune yes better brazo yes done yes Robinson yes in general yeah and I'm in favor the motion passes you'll have a date of the December 13th at 11 30 thank you are there any other deferrals who withdrawals to the 11 30 rediscoxions address for us please there are none of them back to the 10 30s following the next case calling DOA 134 558 422 Wilmore Street this is a new three-family residential building the violation 60 8 parking and screening and buffering article 60 section 9 of floor there ratio is excessive article 60 section 9 of radiations sufficient article 60 section 9 of side yard insufficient article 60 section 9 of local space is insufficient article 60 section 37 ought to be parking is insufficient article 60 section 7 of the lot of area is insufficient article 60 section 9 the additional lot of areas is insufficient and article 60 section 9 of front yard is insufficient naming address for the record please good morning Mr. Chairman and members of the board my name is Shabby Mars Misami returning for the owner 22 Wilmore LLC my address is 1359 Hancock Street sweet seven and Quincy Mass we are here today to ask for relief to build a three-family home on this vacant lot as you can see from the plans each unit will have three bathrooms and two baths in unit laundry buck up and will be a roughly 1300 square feet the first floor will be here to cap accessible unit basements will be used for storage and will host most of the utilities the HVAC will be housed in each unit the existed lot has a curb cut and driveway for two spaces this is a transit oriented unit or property we are by multiple bus routes and the communal in addition to the front and rear deck space we are by within a mile to public parks our building is of similar size and character of the existing three families on both sides of the street our lot size is 2337 square feet these units will be rental units as they are remaining in need for housing in the community please note there are five laws on this street that are identical to ours and four laws that are smaller than ours and they all house three family units this project is an appropriate use of the law it will not at firstly affect the community or create any detriment for better residents we have our architect offensive Sarah with us on the line to enter any additional questions you may have thank you okay um can you just go over the parking again yes so on a decent to the right of the building you'll see the two spaces um to see what's slide so right keep on me okay right there so it's on the right side of the building okay all right and um with a 10 feet all right is there parking on the street yes we're more both sides both sides okay um how are the drawings just better veraza this is your drawings are adequate i didn't see a survey plot plan but i figure that this site plan is based on a survey okay uh any questions in the board so anyone here to testify either in favor or our opposition the morning Mr. Chair members of the board are changing the mayor's office of neighborhood services the applicant for 22 will more had no further meeting on august 16th of this year and they also met with the greater matter pan neighborhood council which site which elected to oppose this project citing lack of access to open space lack of generous lighting and at the first floor of plan left a commitment to the access of multiple mobilities and they also met with the Wellington Hell Neighborhood Association which elected to oppose as well we have a total of 22 letters of support and two letters of opposition for this project and at this time the mayor's office of neighborhood service the mayor's office would like to defer the judgment um to the board on this matter thank you thank you um Mr. Chair secretary here we do have some of those letters we don't have that 22 but we do have letters of support and opposition okay i apologies some of the um letters are sent in some of the files are sent with multiple letters so it's three files but each of them have six some of between six and some of them have ten as well so that all are inside the safe file we're fine we're good thank you okay we have any rain sands yes we do we have some raised yes more than mad at mr. chair members of the board jack study from council mayor's office we're going to decide with the neighborhood council here in opposition thank you and what is that based on lack of open space and we've also heard about our opposition in our office okay chair all right shem chair you've been unmuted if you can just take any man I'll just fill the back up please my name is shem sheer Ali and the addresses 62 North we can street all sons ma is here 2134 my representative and when you and an abustman is here to present this case good morning thank you all for seeing that we were part of the 1030 all right are you speaking in favor of opposition on the project i might i'm the contractor okay put your name and address on the record please i'm in you and abustman that's a different file there's not for this project okay i still want 22 one more okay i mean anybody else want to speak on 22 with more we do have another raised hand okay fatimola if you can raise i mean if you can stay your name and i just for the record please yes the kind of fatigue i always allow 34 brown street men of you thank you chair the reason i'm waiting on him neighbor council um as Eric uh James had stated what our main concerns were there were also concerns when you actually visiting the street both sides of the street are there is parking on most but but there is also both sides of the streets for the cars park half on the sidewalks and half of the street but with the entire width of the street curb the curb is only 24 feet when you look at each of the homes going down the street people make decisions about whether or not they're going to put their cars in their driveway or or if they're going to use it as a place where they could put chairs to sit out and that's what i observed myself the other concerns were having to do with the lot green solar it was only 2709 square feet the parcel as i had described within when we met with the development team we'd ask them would they be considering a smaller project because of the size of the parcel and they said that they would not we understand that the homes that are on the street would be a lot earlier in the 19th century when in the 20th century there are 1900s but this is you know 2022 and most people do expect to have a certain amount of light in space when we have brought up about the parking um again they say they can fit two parking spaces and i was told that even someone wanted to move their car they could go and ask the other unit to move their car thinking to myself you know every day that would be a bit of a stretch to see that always happening so that's that's where okay thank you all right is that any matter in ambassador that's all okay can i have a motion please mr chair early to prefer a motion of approval with the pdi pdi design review i'll second air fortune yes better for us uh yes yes Robinson yes regiro yes can i do them in favor um the motion passes i'm gonna say yes that we do the following i'm i'm cognizant of the fact that mr. Robinson has to leave at one o'clock um but i think if people need a very short stretch break so i'm gonna suggest that we just take a few minutes and and we can be around around noon thank you you you you you you you you you you If they could raise their hand, that would be great. Okay. I'm going to call it to the record. We may have to 12 p.m. There are four companion cases. HBLA 1110391239 to 243-Hen over street. BLA 11104031 to 4 mechanic code. HBLA 1110414114-Hen over street. HBLA 111042324-Hen over street. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon. Richard Joyce. Numen and Numen 1 McKinley Square. Boston Mass 021-09. And I believe on the call or joining shortly should be attorney Bill Faruho. Okay. I'm protecting you. Okay. We have everybody we need for the case. This is hand. Is he just logged in as buying? No, it should be William or Bill Faruho. No. I can try giving him a quick call to make sure that he's blogging in. Okay. All right. All right. The corporate remember scheduled for noon. It's now 12 or four. If he's not out in a couple of minutes, we should probably go back to the regular agenda until he's here. I'm going to go back to the public. I'm going to go back to the public again. Time constraints. Okay. Call the next case for the 1030. Case B.O.A.1, 37577, 17a Avenue. This is a reckoning new 27 unit multi-family building with elevator access over below grade parking garage. Includes parking garage with a two-story 13 parking elevator in a conveyor system. This is a six-story 19 section 29. It's a five-speed parking loading. And Article 69, section 29.5. High-speed parking design. Name and address for the record. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board of Attorney John Fogini on behalf of the applicant. Seven data have a high-parc disowning in this neighborhood. The total number of parking spaces is 13,630 square feet. The proposal to raise existing vacant building truck to new 27 unit buildings with 30 parking spaces and 34 bicycle spaces. The violations, this first game before us, we thought it was a zoning compliant. As we, the first one was parking. We decided for maneuverability because we're using a stat parking system, which is still on many projects today. This is simply that the zoning code hasn't caught up with technology. And this one person at ISD said is we don't punish technology. The other was loading. We have a loading bag. However, the plans of us said we would have to back into the loading bag, which I believe you have to back into every loading bag. But, you know, that is, I guess, subjected violations. As I stated, the building will have 27 units. There will be nine two beds, 18 one beds. The first level have a lobby leasing management office, trash room and bike room. The average size of the one bed is 765 square feet. The average size of the two bed is 908 square feet. This proposal went through a robust article 80 process and was improved by the BPA in June of this year. We are providing almost 20% of affordability with income requirements of not more than 70% AMI. And those will be three one beds and two two beds. And additionally, we're also contributing to a little leg station for the community. Any questions? Any questions? I'm happy to answer. Yeah, okay. Well, you answered a bunch of the questions. So, when all is said and done, once again, what precisely are the violations? It is maneuverability for getting into your, you know, for the staff parking system. Got the early. Yeah, in the room. In the loading bag. In the loading bag. That's it. Not the organization. Okay. All right. So, any other questions that we have about the project in general? Actually, we don't trigger any, any biopassions. All right. Well, given that, how are the drawings miss better? Where else? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Okay. Are there any questions in the board? And is Mr. Domingo on? Do you want to talk about the issues of the maneuverability in the loading bag? Yes, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, both of the MECO BTD. The stacking design is something that's becoming more popular. And my review of the parking design, it does work. Okay. And the loading bag, the rear entrance, that's fairly standard? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Okay. Anyone want to testify in favor of an opposition? Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. As Mr. Pogini stated, the project was approved by the BPD on June 16th. And during the comment period, the proposal did get letters of support in opposition that were submitted on the project page. Our office has received two letters of opposition that have been sent to the board for review as well. One is from an immediate a butter at three Dana Avenue and the other one is from the High Park Neighborhood Association. Both letters state that they do not believe it fits the current design of the neighborhood. And there are concerns for parking variance, density, and traffic as well as the removal of a mature trade that's on the property line of three and seven Dana Ave. We've also received 25 signatures in support of this project, which again have been sent to the board for review, stating that the developers have had several meetings with neighbors, and they believe the project seems to be an appropriate use. And will be a great addition to the community. And at this time, we wish to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hilton, with respect to the issue of the design fitting into the being contextual, did the BPD have any thoughts on that? No, it's still ongoing. The design review was always ongoing. So we will look at it. If there are more concerns from the community, we won't continue to look at that. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary Hilton, do have those letters that the mayor's office just spoke of. Okay. Good afternoon, Chair, members of the board. Jordan Friedrich here from Council Recorder, Royals office. Let's go on record and support of this. This project is providing almost 20% affordability with really no violations. And mostly everyone's on board with 25 letters of support. Thank you so much. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I do have seven raised hands. Okay, let's go. No, no. Cindy, you've been unmuted. People stay in an address for the record. Good morning, my name is Cindy Tuchiste. I am here on behalf of Councillor Wu Tuegen, and I will go on record to support the budget. Thank you. 617-43-783-8. You've been unmuted. If you can stay your name in address for the record, please. Yes, my name is Steve Young. My address is 11-day-to-half unit 203. I am a Director of Butter. I think this project would be a great addition to the neighborhood, and I am in support. Thank you. Scott, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name in address for the record, please. Yes, my name is Steve Young. My address is 11-day-to-half unit 203. I am a Director of Butter. I am a Director of Butter. Please. Hi. This is Scott Danony. I own the building a 12th Dana Am. This is right across the street for me. And I think these units are exactly what I've argued. They're right adjacent to the commuter rail station, and they also have the park in this support. So I think this is a great thing for the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. Alright. Dan, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name in address for the record, please. The parking lot is about one minute. Like that, do you need me? Dan? Hello. Hello. Yes. Stay your name in address for the record, please. Yes, hi, I'm David Dana Am. I'm just here to support the project. I believe that you have a great addition to the neighborhood. I'm just here to support the project. I believe that those two commuter rail and no bringing in a little bit of tax revenue and affordability to the area that was increased units has been out. I'll put the burden in there. I'm going to write a little business in the space. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Alright. Okay. Irene. Oh. I really, been unmuted. Yes. Hello. My name is Irene McGillian. I'm here with my mother Joyce Rockwell. And we are residents at 3D Nav or Directive butters to the proposed project. So I'd like to be able to share with the board that there's an ongoing case in length regarding. I don't know if they. Hello. Can you hear me? Yeah, go ahead. Okay. I'm not sure what you heard, but my name is Irene McGillian. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to be able to share with you. I'm going to figure out what to say when these are finished. I'm going to need to write this number 1. When we put this in order, the next thing you're gonna do yourself is completing this work. You can use it, as you how you wanna run evidence. I'm going to see a book about accessibility. You can whatnot this process, and take a look at it, having发 some precautions and think it's just the first piece of Mindwehr. It's actually an outcome, wasn't it right? It's really different— or opposed. All right phone number six one seven three six four one four four five you can just please keep it a minute if you can state your name and address for the record please. Thank you Mr. Craig Martin equal gesture high part. I'd like to foretold acknowledge that there is more than appears there is a misdimensional violation which is the intended to they have the height 40 feet but the last reason they had they told us that the great average grade level was negative two and they did the count for that grade level which is I don't want to insult the boy but you measure the height of building from the top the grade. So indeed the height there is a height violation. Okay. That's crucial. In this neighborhood we're talking about building is coming up we don't know I've done buildings tall and this supposed to be the next one's going to be just tall at all and they're coming up in this neighborhood very rapidly so we'd like them to get this right. Okay all right thank you very much thanks for that insight. Okay to the board I think we've heard a lot of testimony can I have a motion please I'll make a move to approve a BPDA design. I'll second that I'll second that okay motion is made in seconded in fortune yes better Burrasa. Oppose. Done. Yes Robinson. Yes. Would you be able to do it? Yes. I'll show him favor the motion passes. Thank you. Okay. Does everybody hear for the court? Yes. I'm turning it for all. Okay. All right. Mr. Fortune you want to read the the remand? Yeah I'll just read the case again and then we can go from there. Okay. Of the case BOA 1110391239 to 243 Hill over street there are three companions B.O.A. 1110403 want to form a can of court BOA 1110411411 board alley and BOA 11104232 board alley. Name an address for the record please. Mr. Fortune before we go can you just read what's in the agenda right in the record. It's the same on all of them. Yeah I can do that the article fit I'm sorry this is a court remand and as ordered the zoning vote the whole they're remand hearing on the above listed pursuant to August 19th 2022 the board will determine whether it can place a reasonable condition upon the operation of executive suites at the above listed listed addresses the violation article 54 section 12 using regulation executive suite as a conditional use on hand over some district which can you write from a restaurant to seven apartments seven executive suites. This will be the same this will be the same for mechanic court 11 board and two board. Okay so just a reminder to the board that most of these proposals for executive suites because of the city short-term rental ordinance we have chosen to deny the applications in one case that this referring to respect the battery march which I'm sure we will hear about that from the proponents there we placed them some severe restrictions but let's let's hear what the the applicant's at to say so go ahead. Good morning. I'm turning away from the other appropriate note on behalf of the applicants to give you some background and then speak about the security court oil these units have been placed since 2014 when the applicant applying three of the proponents in our real one one is on hand over and we have three of what we look towards back buildings that go behind the buildings that face out on to the tunnel. They were renovated as executive suites executive suites for us and allow use in the code between 2013 when the spot excited until January 8th of 2012 when a new provision was put in making back use in this particular area of additional use. We discovered applied to the applicant in the fact ordinance that they were not properly classified and IST we refiled the IST in December of 2019 but they were no hearing scheduled for this until November of 2020 after the applicants took back. What we really quite don't follow you I'm writing most of the applications that you see is this has operated eight years with no issues we are submitted during the original hearing let us put over 50 apartments of local residents of not that supported this remember the work of issues testifying support the more closely stating that the purpose of the shot to threaten our to deny existing businesses the right to operate but to prevent the new acquisition of substances in the unit we wanted to drive that distinction and hearing clearly court stated we never respect the our consideration as to whether this proposal meets the guidelines for condition use we think we have stated by the chair before another matter we use kind of an existing use that we use so that battery mastery give imposed provide zones that's kind of the order which is very important the order reads at the remain hearing the plaintiff's shelf of always and the public's shelf consider conditions of operation of the executive suites to address the following requirements of conditional use we would propose today that those conditions which are six number on decision by the board of major people 21 or 30-36 battery mastery to be similarly opposed our regions and I'll just read from a journal all right okay mr. Farrell I know that's a thank you that's an able summary let me just sort of for the board for the other occasion of the board again we have typically denied because of the city shorts or red ordinance we are typically denied these requests there is a 36-better mark battery mark street on May 14 2021 the attorney is correct we approved it with the following provides us a channel read so that you can understand exactly what we did we uh relief was granted to this applicant only they're they can have no more than two occupants for unit the minimum stay of four days was required and then they have that staff on site at all times post-claran structures and how to contact management and building entrance and file our appointment to board in one year short term uh by removing short by removing occupancy in the length of occupancy by gas so mr. Farrell I'm going to open this for testimony takes the testimony limited amount but I want one question hang on you said this has been operating for eight years has it been operating with those with those kinds of provisions the provision was not a price no that's it's not what I asked I'm not asking a legal I'm not asking a legal question I'm asking just a practical question oh let me answer this right mr. Chair it's in operation the answer is yes meaning back for the hearing that we had in 2020 I am on the right and say then we were back to look at our occupancy records which indicator for the average state in the use was 45 base uh did we require a minimum stay no we have a required minimum stay okay really quite a minimum stay the answer okay all right I have any questions in the board well I just want to this is an existing business that got caught up in the straw term housing ordinance that has operated for a long time prior to this without incident I would have to compare it even to battery modules which was a new acquisition and a completely new thing if I don't even know if that's fair but um you know I'm glad they're back you okay I have a question in regards to I have a question in regards to occupancy you have several properties so I guess we're just talking about this specific property what is your room occupancy for each unit the units eight or studios eight one bedrooms made two bedrooms so the only units that generally would accommodate more than two people would be the two bedrooms so that's the one difference in the providers battery notch there's a limited two people we would ask that that the bed room right so for the two so for the two bedroom typically what was your occupancy uh generally that would be that two or four people up to four okay thanks for that okay okay okay we use by families to uh wash the house. Thank you Mr. Frill I didn't get any other questions any other questions or comments in the board okay I'm gonna I'm gonna ask for um it's a public testimony but limited it because this we've already heard this case and I don't want to re-hash it excessively but uh so if there's two people want to speak in favor and two people who uh speak in opposition uh if if people if there's interest in in public testimony I will take about. Mr. Chair members of the board my name is Luigi Natali from represent at the our microsoft office we are in support of this project you mean you're in you're in support of language allowing them to yes exactly technicality yes the remainder yeah thank you anyone else mr. Chair members of the board Paul Sullivan for city council at large local party uh actually echoing the sentiments of mr. Regigirio the proponent is a great neighbor who's back to the city in many ways this is not Airbnb the city regs when I'm tetted to deny existing businesses the right to continue their executive suite uses therefore the council to go and replicate the one okay uh there are any other elected uh who would like to uh weigh in okay it's not is there anyone here to speak out for me that's the chair this is Tom I think I saw councilor co-editing and raised which you might be having some technical issues okay is there anyone here to speak in opposition okay nobody here i'll make a motion to approve with the following provisor that it's the release of the city of g you you want to council cleta that you yeah yeah please I would love to comment and i'm not speaking in opposition i'm also not speaking in support i would actually prefer to for all um members of the board i am mindful the fact that this is an existing operation without incident that is not my concern here and i seek to work with the proponent i am concerned of the continue the continuance of this executive suite rupal and so i am encouraging a deferral so that the city of boss and keep you granted more time to further define executive suites to prevent this ad hoc regulatory system um of an inherently transient state and accommodation model um as a currently stands there is no nightly minimum and it is up to the board in your discretion to provide conditions right but i would prefer and advocates within disproportionately affected communities that the city develop and implement clearly defined requirements for executive suite operations as it relates to registration minimum stay reporting wage fairness and workplace safety additionally i think executive suites should be subject to the city's imposed community impact fee which assists with the preservation of affordable housing which was the spirit of the short-term rental ordinance from the very beginning so although proisals can be given and conditions can be given they are incredibly hard to enforce uh under ISD enforcement has done through non criminal disposition of zoning violations so it doesn't assist the community with any sort of oversight so that's why i'm seeking a deferral at this moment in time so that the city of boss and could better define executive suites and develop regulations moving forward uh counselor your points are extremely well taken and i think all of us in the board uh would wish that the city had really clear provisions because we don't think it's like being in this position of having to on the one hand one to enforce the short-term rental ordinance and on the other having all having these executive suite locals which are which as you point out you know allow to get the problem is that we are under record remand and we need to act and i but i certainly encourage you to continue uh acting in the the fashion that you are to get a clarity on some of these questions so that we're not put in this position uh in the future but unfortunately i think we have to make a decision today about the because of the court remand very well um and thank you so much for this space to provide comment i do think that this is a policy opportunity and i i can anticipate that i will be working hard with the community and ISD to make sure that we close this group for once and for all great good for you thank you all right so i emotional approval for the following providers that release be granted to the sable can only that there be no more than two adult occupants per bedroom that the minimum stay of q night that they have staff on site at all time but two lights two lights oh you want we we okay do i mean we're gonna be we're gonna be consistent it has to be four nights four nights four night four nights um have on site staff at all time post clear instructions on how to contact management and file a report with the board about occupancy and length of stay um one year from issuance of the permit okay so just to be clear to the rest of the board when mr. and jr is proposing essentially the same terms that were granted to thirty thirty six battery march uh in 2021 um and i just clarify sorry it's you said four nights or four days that would be two different day all three all one time you're right three one day is three night four days is well for a bit of a very hard night agreement that they correct thank you mr. Robinson i i will second that uh motion very good uh thank you there is an additional provider i believe that was just read it which is staffing to have staffing no but i thought i used to know that you read that you said that okay well i mean essentially they only give further record this is the same the the same provider said it was associated with the battery march for i think except except for the occupancy because i have to have that bedroom as opposed to you that's right okay got it all right and there's been a motion made in the second march yes bedamarraza yes done yes Robinson yes would you are um yes and i am well reluctantly voting in favor as well i just think that uh the councilors comments about needing to clear off the loop balls is is absolutely right so the motion passes so let's go back you can go back to the ten there thank you mr. Robinson for being here for that i think what we're trying to do just is go to one o'clock when mr. Robinson has to leave and then probably check another break we let's so let's get as much done as we can in the interim there you go calling an x case calling dl a one two two four zero five two five seven two five nineteen metropolitan avenue this is a wreck nine unit the department nine unit department building the violation of article 69 section 29.5 ought to be boxing design article 69 30.1 building alignment conformity article 69 section eight a multi-family use with the bed article 69 section 23 this is the neighborhood design overlay district radical 69 section nine excessive a r article 69 section nine building height is accessible story article 69 section nine use of all the spaces in suspicion article 69 section nine side yarded suspicion and article 69 69 that we got is insufficient name and address for the record point Daniel McDevitt attorney 62 derby spring and hang him with me as well to hill you the owner of the property and iley was of the designer of the property all right you want to tell us what you're proposing sure you know thank you very much we're proposing to on a watt that is 12,928 square feet um with 74 feet of frontage on metropolitan avenue to take a single family building down and create a nine unit building that will consist of eight three bedroom units and one two bedroom unit which will be handicapped accessible the design of the building with the three bedroom units is is more in keeping with uh people having larger families and also having work from home space so that's why it was decided that the best use of the space would be to max it out at the number of three bedroom units because there are hardly any of them ever available the breakdown of these units is the smallest being the two bedroom unit is 1433 square feet and the largest of the three bedroom units is 1618 square feet this project abuts a 228,114 square foot a lot which is a shopping center at 942 high park avenue very recently a portion of that shopping center parking lot was carved out and this poolant and the uh uh through a lot of the lady and the board approved for 550 metropolitan avenue to create 21 residential units and we are on the other side of the driveway to the parking lot for that project um this is a uh a building that has parking under the what uh the building itself has been set back from the lot in order to accommodate the lamp to drive down into the lower level garage which has 18 parking spaces but the parking spaces are tandem in nature the um front yard in this zone calls for under article 69 table C section 35 calls for a 25 foot set back and the new building is 42 feet back from the street uh and that's to allow two vehicles to be completely out of the garage on the to ensure a safe exit onto metropolitan avenue when the guys come out of the garage um uh because the building abuts the entrance to the shopping center um there are no closer houses on the lower side of the building so when you're lining up the building there's nothing to line it up with on the other side um this has uh been through almost two years of a community process um because of the fact that the unique location it is it it finds itself not quite in any uh neighborhood association but very close to many neighborhood associations so all there uh has attended numerous uh meetings over the last few years and has had overwhelming favorable support from those meetings uh that took add in this neighborhood and in fact he uh has uh met with all of the people on the street i believe there are 32 letters in favor and none in opposition on file today and um i would uh ask what if they have any questions okay uh we have i'm losing my voice because of allergies um sorry to hear um so uh what what uh what's only district is this in okay so this is in a 1F6000 loan a 1F6000 and you want nine units in a 1F6000 replacing a single family it's uh pretty dramatic increase well it is but if you look at what happened at the other end of the shopping center yeah no no no i understand you already made the case i'm just uh i'm sorry mr. oik there's an additional project that was approved at 996 high park avenue not in the shopping center park but in a 2F 5000 square foot zone uh before it approved seven units on 9,750 square feet a few years ago when people were living in that building now okay a lot looks like uh with the exception of the front which you explained was for the ramps against the garage it uh looks like you're filling up a lot pretty completely well it's true that there are side yard violations but the shortest side yard violation is on the side that uh you're up against the massive parking lot of the uh of the shopping center so no residences on that side really yeah yeah okay right we got it thank you mr. mr. brasa how are the drawings mr. chair the drawings are adequate and he thought about the about density i do think the project is dense for it's for its area um it's in there there's a lot of one family house structures in the neighborhood okay i mean the fact that it's next to a shopping center parking lot is some of them are mitigating factor i gather anyway uh any questions on the board um no questions but i i want to i guess reinforce that i feel like it's a little bit of a tough transition from single family i understand it's a shopping center but i don't think this project is mitigating that transition it's actually just moving it closer to the adjacent single families and it does appear to be a a lawful of varying mature trees that are actually doing that transitioning naturally i guess i'll say so i too am a little bit nervous about the repose my recall the other project which i believe was behind the the the um the shopping mall like on the street so it was in a much different kind of uh i think context in terms of its relationship to this street scale um but no other questions are comments of them all right thank you any other questions in the board is anyone here to uh speak either in favor of or in opposition to the project good afternoon mr. chair members of the board daniel funsaka mayor's office of neighborhood services and a butters meeting for this proposal was held on september 27th of 2021 no or butters were present only a representative from district council recorder a royal's office was there the applicants did reach out as mr. mcdevit stated uh to several neighborhood groups in the area including the high park central river and um met with the high park neighborhood association but due to this project being so close to the razon del border um it did take some time to locate which neighborhood groups specifically would cover this area the applicants were able to get in touch with the appropriate civic group which is the mount hope canabary neighborhood association our office has not received any letters of support or opposition for this project and we wish to to floor to the board for judgment thank you okay thank you the secretary tell me here we do have some letters of support okay mr. hampton is a bpd waiting on this uh yes mr. chin and members and board is you could see by eyes it's you know too dense for this kind of zoning district it's already been touched on by the discussion with it this hearing so we're on record is denial of top prejudice okay thank you anyway any other raise hands better ambassador no raise hands research partly okay all right uh can i have a motion i'd like to put for a motion of deno without prejudice is there a second second one fortunate yes better than razon yes down yes ravenson yes we're girao yeah and i agree i also have the motion passes i think i mean i'm back with a slightly down downsides proposal for at least transitional as erick mentioned yeah tell us some open space and to have a better layout with this parking right now it looks a little bit hazardous yeah thank you come stick sorry call the next case calling b o a 135 2750 62 north beacon street this is a convert to single family to a three family dwelling with a du base in a du basement violation of article 51 sex of 56 odds three parking and loading article 51 sex and eight the use just to bid out of the 51 sex and i'm a poor day ratio is excessive immunadjust for the director please i'm a neo no bossman 62 north beacon street boss and mass please tell us what you have in mind this bossman okay so what we have in mind is we have an existing single family three story and the owner relates to convert it into just three units and complete just like a basement unit i don't think we're going to take away the adus it's going to be like just a finished basement for unit one there is showing like a little bit of a bump out on the first floor to extend the first bedroom the first floor bedroom all areas will have separate entrances in utilities so the utilities will be easy to have their own utilities in some of them okay yes and there are three separate entrances or two and one and there's you there are let's see on the first floor if you look at drawer as you have the four plans up so you'll have an entrance right here on the first floor that will take you to level one and then you'll have an entrance at the same level at the port it takes you to level two and in level three entrances on level two there's a separation where you meet at the stairs so for looking at the second floor plan it's actually to my left I don't know how you're looking at on the drawings but you see where it says like unit four yeah and then okay so he's there's a separation right there at the stair landing you can go to the right or to the left so if you take the left you're going to unit three you go to the right you go unit four I'll go it says unit three and four that's really just because we call the basement unit one so okay but it's only three stories it's not four units something to be okay okay we're not going to be encroaching and going into any property lunch we're not doing that we're not doing any expansion other than just bumping out at the porch we'll just sit within the boundary lines okay so a couple questions so there's no change whatsoever to the exterior of the building correct and my next question or how that's not true that's not true because yeah yeah yeah yeah so that's it paint got it but other than yeah and everything's being left intact right we're not adding any debt so anything like that okay and the basement unit I'm my question is always since I'm not since we're not happy about underground you I'm trying to figure out from the elevation that's a big tie but what is the relationship of the floor of the basement to the great outside great to the outside great so it's about yeah it's about four feet and the ceiling heights roughly like seven foot two so the basement itself is going to be an addition to the first floor so say you have like a finished basement so the first floor only gets access to the finished basement okay on a three unit apartment the you need to have a minimum seven foot six on the floor ceiling height so seven foot two is not it's a violation of building code well if we were doing a dwelling unit there it only requires seven feet no that's that's true for one and two it's not true for three unit okay okay so if we need so the whole point is we would have to do some excavation if we need to bring it to that which puts it further underground so what is what is supposed to be in the what is going what rooms are going to be in the basement I can't quite tell from the drawing oh the dark is just a bedroom in a bathroom there's like a little dinerman kitchenette okay and that's a self-contained unit yes it is but you have access down from the first floor it's better to realize what do you think of this opposed one so in terms of unit one I'm trying to understand how you I think the stairs are missing to get to unit one from the stairs is that correct to remove that can you recognize it seems like the stairs from the top unit unit two or from the porch there's some of the boards of the basement unit that means that being said so the drawings are not accurate that being said I do see two doors in the room and there well one is in the rear and it seems like one is at the front yeah you know what you're right miss handsy better baraza so right now there is a can anyone zoom in like is there a way just oh okay so we zoom in yep so right now correct so where it says unit one there's a one is a one door access one door access here at the back well I see two doors right one to the left one to the bottom and that two doors the other one tour the right that's what I'm basically suggesting is there is a possibility that you can provide access to that door you see on the left if there's a through way correct correct right right now there's only one egress right yes right now there is so if we took the entrance that goes into the utility okay and we created a little corridor separated that then we could have access to the right but there's all there's actually two egress potentially one would be going to the unit at the top if leading us to the porch if if it was drawn accurately okay so one of the things that we don't do with this board is designed on the fly I think make a motion to defer this thank you a lot of questions with the drawings and how many units are here and everything so I would second that there so what what all right well fortune yeah yeah yeah for us that motion to defer yes and I and I would like to just say something again yeah when we finish with the motion you can say what we she needs to do so better for us and yes motion different dawn yes Robinson yes would you own yeah me okay so motion passes so you need to deal with the issue of the ceiling height you need to deal with the issue of the egress and you don't have the plans reflect something that will work and it's consistent with the building code is better Rosha any other comments basically just to work with your architect to have them draw the drawings correctly okay okay all right you'll have a date of December 13th at 1130 December 13th so your questions were mainly the basement as far as you need to you need to you need to make sure I meet building code so at least seven foot six height right and then you can allow for two egress but that your architecture know their code okay if it's a three unit building it's a three unit building the four unit building the four unit building but the good thing is is for trying to help you okay thank you December 13 will I get something in the mail sorry will I get another letter in the mail okay so December 13th at what time 1130 okay thank you for that I'm good luck with question we as Miss Ben Bras says we like we like to help you figure this out appreciate okay thanks for like but well call on the first case of rediscussion calling the OA 1336832 291 Beacon Street this is an existing lodging house change of occupancy increased the number of occupants from 11 to 31 no construction is planned a violation is out of late section seven the use is conditional and onical nine section one extension of non-cropome use name and adios for the record thank you the 91 beacon speed up yes they sure that is our dinner put it in Barry George Aratunian 171 Beacon Street I represent the ownership all right you want to tell us first of all tell us why you're back for rediscussion and then tell us what the project is I believe my council is supposed to speak I'm not sure where she's right now but I think she's on Mr. Chairman I do actually have a hard hard stop at one when eight minutes I don't think we're going to get through this so I wonder if I should just go ahead and step out now sorry all right mr. Oathison we won't miss you dearly I apologize thank you sorry thank you okay so just to remind people that we now are in five member board and everybody's entitled requesting administrative deferral because if you go ahead you only all five of those for approval so you have the is the attorney for 291 beacon on yes good good afternoon mr. chair tanya trevison dori lawpuses 50 Franklin Street in Boston representing the petitioner with me is Nancy Lowe from Joyce strategies who is a consultant for the project and the project owner who has already introduced himself and with the board's permission before we go any further into the case are two items that I'd like to bring up first mr. haritonian would like the board members to know that he's reducing the request for an increase in occupants from 31 to 22 occupants he will also impose a minimum stay for lodgers of two nights on the weekends and three days during the week secondly although the building code would allow a total of 31 occupants in this existing licensed lodging house containing 7,274 square feet after several extensive neighborhood meetings mr. haritonian has concluded that a total of 22 occupants is more in keeping with the neighbors expectations also it's important to note the fact that 21 occupants is the average number of occupants the city permits at seven other lodging houses in the same age 365 residential zone the venture is feasible with 22 occupants based on the 10% vacancy rate having said that the building at 21 Beacon Street holds a certificate of legal use and occupancy a current inspection certificate and a current lodging house license which permits it to be legally used as a lodging house for 10 dwelling units and 11 occupants okay so is there a request today before us to change the increase from 11 to 21 or or to 30 31 no it's 11 to 21 okay all right 22 11 to 22 I'm sorry I wanted to do yes all right okay okay all right and why to remind me since I don't know that a wonderful memory why we are here for rediscussion it was deferred I believe previously because it was deferred because the last time there was only four members oh okay so we haven't actually heard the case then correct yeah you didn't have a corner last time okay I mean now or a five okay all right okay so is there any presentation that you want to make beyond the just adjusting the the requested increase from 11 to 22 yes I just have a theater background notes to make it by May yep so the building for background is made of brick four stories high and it has fire sprinklers the unit sizes are substantial ranging from 221 square feet to 1226 square feet and of the 10 units two are one one room units five or studios two are one bedrooms and there is one two bedroom unit on the fourth floor and all the units are equipped with kitchens there is no work being proposed by the petitioner for this underutilized lodging house because even though the building and sanitary regulations support a total occupant load of 31 occupants based on the existing floor floor plans and the gross floor area of 7,674 square feet the petitioner is only requesting an increase from 11 to 22 occupants yeah no one would agree so if granted the increase in the occupancy will allow the building to be properly maintained kept in good and safe condition and operated in compliance with its license so that doesn't become a detriment to the surrounding properties or the neighborhood okay there's been a survey of the surrounding properties which indicates that there are a total of seven licensed lodging houses in the area that are currently being operated within the same residential zone and within a short distance of the property in the average up-and-low for those seven properties is 21 occupants okay is that how the number was arrived at with the community groups yeah so that is in part part of it and granting the relief would allow this project to be economically feasible for the project proponent because it would not be economically feasible to have a better plan correct no no okay mr. Chad just have a quick question secretary yeah now when you reduce from 31 to 22 did you go back to the community because I just want to you know this all opposition I have no support with this so I just wanted to question that yes there was a presentation made to the community requesting a reducture to 22 and there should be there should be one support letter in the file how long ago was that presentation made I believe it was done in August you know August okay can I ask how many total bedrooms you have can you just confirm how many bedroom units you have I'm not units bedrooms that your house so there are two one bedroom units one two bedroom units five studios and two single room units that's right there's a 22 does it well actually what's currently there okay can you repeat that again and then I'll just do my math sorry okay so what's currently there are two single rooms five studios two one bedrooms and one two bedroom okay thank you that's a total should be come out to ten I am eleven because you got one two bedroom right no it's eleven it's eleven it's eleven so and you're not planning any work so how do you get 22 people in eleven beds well if we do get this permission we plan to do some construction work but these beds most these bedrooms can be occupied by two individual the one two bedrooms to be occupied by four individuals well okay I'm just having a little bit of trouble because you're sitting on the one hand you want approval for 22 but on the other hand you're not doing any work but then you might do some work in order to accommodate 22 it's sort of hard taking them where's the A Mr the opportunity is on can speak to that sure the the work that might come later are just renovations of kitchens and bathrooms we not changing the layout or the floor plans and we came up with 22 minimal based on the number of rooms we have that by code can allow at least one queen size bed in in in the room and if a couple staying in in that room that's two people and if there's a couple staying in each of the eleven dwelling units in the building that's 22 yeah no no I can multiply eleven times two and get 22 but and all right well I mean that that's the ceiling that's the ceiling correct we may we may have some people all right okay everybody would have to be couple so in order to get to that number all right that's fine any questions from the board I mean I'm a bit of a raisin it's not much point to ask you how the plans are since enough that we could work correct all right I was any other questions in the board is there anyone to speak either in favor or in opposition to the proposal yes hello mr chairman and members of the board my name is Maggie Vance Goye from the mayor's office of neighborhood services our office ran two of butters meetings considering there was interest in unanswered questions from the community they also went to the civic association and the neighborhood association of back bay issued a letter of strong opposition to the project with this be a deferred judgment to the board and the landwritten this letter strong opposition is based on what any increase in on the policy okay mr. G. S. Secretary you know I have but it's a proposition basically with the mayor's office just okay so it's just they they don't want any increase in occupancy exactly okay all right thank you anybody else to testify yes good evening chair members of the board my name is Anthony bias and I'm counselor box leads onto the back bay the proponents seek to convert units currently operating as apartment units into a short-term rental hotel which is not an approved use in the back pay residential district our office has received numerous letters in opposition and I should add that this is even after the proposal lowered their increase from 21 to 30 they the proponent I mean the residents are opposed to a project that would lower the quality of life by stuffing a business in the center of a carefully crafted residential neighborhood and in addition approval this proposal would set up a list precedent as there are 30 lodging houses in the neighborhood for the reason stated counts are by respect we ask each vote to reject this application thank you so I think before you get off so the assumption is that the the ultimate goal is to use this as a short-term rental yes that seems to be the case again there's no operating as apartment units and that seems to be the stated goal okay thank you the building does have a lodging house license currently so this which I can follow testimony thank you okay anybody else chairman I do have five raised hands okay let's go all right Carol you've been unmuted if you can to state your name and I'll just for the record please Carol I'm a Cali and Hayes I'm at 274 Beacon Street across from 291 Beacon Street my main issue I have with this application is the expansion of the lodging license from 11 to 22 to allow 291 to become in effect an Airbnb hotel with an absentee corporate owners with a lower sight and accountability there a short-term rental as mentioned we'll take away this stock of rental apartments of Baalville City which is counted to what Mayor Wool wants to do for the city of Boston this is a major factor in Boston buildings being converted to short-term rentals such as proposed for 291 Beacon Street a no longer available for long-term rentals making our mental housing in the city of Boston even more expensive than hired to come by I have lived in this area for close to 60 years back in the back bay was the warming houses, cron, favorites, noise, trash and many more rats it was not pleasant or desirable place to live there were muggings, breakings and burgers in the state were even finally through a lot of effort can we sing an investment the bad day has become a neighborhood where I feel safe walking at night creating my neighbors and fellow residents there is no bedding for this only can you pay and I'm not a criminal okay you'll have people yeah thank you very much I think when you made your point very clearly uh next okay Elliott you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and address for the record please my name is Elliott Laffer I live at 90 Commonwealth Avenue back bay I'm chair of the neighborhood association the back bay I want to clarify that we are not making an assumption that this is an application for short-term rentals when the applicant came to our licensing and building use committee which he's done twice with the larger than the smaller of his proposals it was very clear from him that this was a plan for short-term rent we have not opposed that kind of use on the green street and in the commercial district and wouldn't have posed that kind of votes there now but in the residential district um some is use of of a space that's on a residential block we are you know sheathed the jowl between the residential district and the commercial district in the back bay and we don't need to be bleeding uh commercial uses into the residential district the the applicant has suggested some conditions and that said oh and that will be enforced because ISD can come and look and make sure that they're doing things uh correctly um that's not a likely way going forward to conditions okay I don't have and I believe we got it thank you thank you anybody else I and I think uh Mr. Laffer at the point very clearly unless anybody had a monster anything new I think that we probably should wrap up testimony okay Bob you've been admitted if you would like to state an immunologist for the record please thank thank you board and Mr. Chairman this is Bob Nat from 279 Beacon Street and it choose to have 292 81 buildings so we're just five doors down on Beacon Street and I'm here to speak against this proposal uh what were basically you know I've attended all the meetings and looked at the information that's much it's it's it looks at Airbnb hotel and yeah okay I think we're getting we're getting a pretty clear factor yes Barry you've been a beauty stay your name and I'll just put the record it was this will be the last one okay Barry I'm sorry uh Mr. Chairman uh my name is Barry Brown I'm a resident of 274 Beacon Street uh rather than uh and uh uh additional to the comments made I support them and with my neighbors opposed this project very good thank you Mr. Brown okay I think what I think we uh we we've heard all we need to hear can I have a motion please so this is a conditional use though right yeah but I mean he's he's just he has said and he wants to take his lodging house which he's licensed for and a sense of function is an Airbnb and violation of city policy I there's no way we can uh we can approve this but Mr. Chair and this is Tom uh the central rental requirements for the city of Boston that specifically exempts lodging houses right so he has a lodging house license now that's fine this is a question of expanding it so that it functions in a different way no no it's suggesting taking away as it's lodging house license it's a question of expanding capacity on the why he can still operate this way he can still operate as an Airbnb but just for 11 people not 22 people whether we approve this of the night is yeah I mean my my motion was to provide additional timing to re to get support from the community and to confirm um the occupancy uh I I felt like I felt like the occupancy reduction came very last minute and did not allow for that to be vetted within the community well he has I mean from what we heard from the testimony and when these are people who've uh who have been before this board many times and kind of know our policy and said they're they're comfortable with him being a lodging house with a limit of 11 but anything else they're not I don't think uh I don't know I don't think they're saying need to be gained by additional time can I answer jabs no no it's a discussion of the board uh I'll make a I'm going to motion for denial of the expansion of the capacity second end motion secondary fortune yes better veranda yes done yes we're gary yes yes and I also the motion the motion passes to uh to maintain the current level of occupancy under the license the lodging house okay let's keep going mr chair I just want to make sure um I did see in the chat that someone's going to be deferred so I'm going to bring it up again we are a five-member board so we need five members to be in support of the project I'm going to call any of anybody who wants to defer or with broadly a project for 11 30 if they can give you the address please if the fortune 18 day 20 park and tree thank you mr morancy calling the OA126 890 through 890 318 to 25th street naming address for the rectically board mr chairman members of the board may not exploit our ante on a training business address of 350 works for our way of felt pocket requesting an administrative deferral this matter and a motion motion for deferral second fortune yes that a marathon yes done yes zero yeah you're going to have two supports of motion passes you'll have the date of December 13 at 11 30 thank you are there any other deferrals the next three cases Washington Street doorchester and then Washington Street they're not I'll continue following an x-case calling BLA134 9025 1153-1155 Washington Street this is a rectly new five story mix used building with 24 residential units over 18 park and spaces and amenity space and roof deck and elevator access and a small retail space new shell only the violation of article 65 16 excessive FAR article 65 section 16 insufficient area setback article 65 section 16 excessive building height article 65 16 is sufficient to be parking and article 65 section 41 must be parking and loading may we add just for the rectically good afternoon mr chairman members of the board my name is George Moranpey I'm an intern in business address of 350 works for our way of felt pocket and I'm joined in the hearing by Michael Bellafave of Rode architect project architect this is an article 80 small project which was approved by the bbda on July 14 this is a property located at actually should start the reason why this was deferred to chairman is because the wrong building article was noted on previous refusal letter that had to be corrected but this is a property located in 153 Washington Street into a chesters historic lower bills neighborhood at an aunt's homes of Washington street and Adam street the site consists of a 12,101 square foot lot which is currently occupied by a single story commercial building which contains convenience store and a liquor store with a large surface surface accessory parking lot where it's proposed as a new full story mixed use building to contain 24 phone units including 4 IDP units for an IDP percentage is 17% as well as approximately 1,650 square feet of brown floor commercial space with 18 accessory residential parking spaces located in a brown floor garage accessed from the Washington street side of the site and total 29 resident and visitor iceful spaces with the a rooftop common amenity room with a large common roof deck with elevator access the unit makes here consists of four one bedroom units of approximately 660 square feet and 22 bedroom units ranging in size from 852 square feet to 1221 square feet governing zoning zoning is article 25 as I said and the site is located in an NS neighborhood shopping zoning sub district and the proposed project requires the follow on the barriers is to introduce the latest violations for insufficient off street parking 18 parking spaces are provided while the Domingo table 1555 was the part 35 to combine residential and commercial use provided parking ratio was determined by the BPEA and city transportation staff during the article 80 review process is being adequate the insufficient off street loading is also a study violation the building's horizon is contained uses also went to great deal and it went to great deal reviewed by the BPEA and city transportation staff were to satisfy with and approve the tariff garage program a variance is needed for excessive floor area ratio with homes that they are here 2.4 in a maximum under zoning of 1 and the building also requires a high variance with a maximum building height of 40 feet under zoning both height here is 46 feet to the roof line and 57 feet to the top of the rooftop amenity room which is then well back from all public ways the building's height and massing are derived from a careful study of sites context and urban conditions architecturally the building's expression is regarded almost as an extension of the historical Baker chocolate no buildings from which the proposed project takes significant design and massing gives and with respect to the final cited violation that the rear step back violation to the rear of the site is the star market site in a parking lot of certainly residents of the Baker chocolate residential kind of many of would that help us take any questions that members may have okay thank you mr. Morancy few questions the amenity space on the rooftop can you describe it or can we see it on the drawings yes if if we scroll to the appropriate page the the room contains or consists of a common roof deck that being the case actually has to be provided by elevator and also of course a stairway of both of which which must be charged into a penthouse the building of requirements you know amenity spaces are certainly 1222 square feet so it consists of some indoor space on the room or use the resident it can also be four storage for example roof top furniture tables and chairs used on the on the common group deck so he's sort of performing a double function of sort of as a headhouse in terms of access to the roof deck as but larger than that in order to accommodate storage and other things exactly correct yeah okay all right that makes sense okay and in terms of you know you talked about context and and wrong from the chocolate factory about how does it in terms of it's it's slightly me it's sort of kitty corner from from that and the other buildings in the media proximity aren't aren't that big well can you talk a little bit about contextual design I can somebody who can speak yeah yeah I look good and then I might tell it for the architect or turn it over to Mike okay thank thank you George Mike Delafoe rode the architect's business address of 535 Albany Street and this ambassador we have some renderings at the rear of this presentation would you be able to slide to those there we go so yes there there is there's the star market just to our west sort of northwest and then there is a series of single story buildings across the street from us as a series of kind of two and three story buildings and then misunderstood could you keep scrolling please a little bit more oh the other direction please a little bit more I'm sorry so there we got it okay so so this is the this is the rendering of the building we took a lot of different cues off of the the bigger chocolate factories particularly the big windows lots of brick lots of architectural brick detailing so the idea is that it's sort of stitched into that that context that's behind us I believe that there's another couple shots here yet there we go so you can see that bigger chocolate factories just to the left hand side of the page okay all right I mean it's certainly increasing the the number of stories that are typical immediately Jason but I get it okay miss better garage how are the drawings the drawings are good can you please talk about any kind of sustainability and affordability measures for the project you know like is this do you have any affordable housing um what's the sustainability performance benchmark you're trying to hit for the project like this is great because sustainability and you affordability yeah that's that'd be fine George so so currently the standards for what we're going to try to achieve haven't really been laid out yet um we have been doing a lot of you know the building code is very strict these days so we are working towards some some high efficiency the building will be solar ready as required by code and besides that we have not had any specific conversations with the owner about his sustainability goals thank you Mike with respect to affordability there are 4 IDP units in the building required under the IDP policy would be three units the project is committed to 17% affordability exceeding where it's required by adding an additional two-bedroom unit at the IDP unit so the four IDP units would consist of one one better unit and three two-bedroom units okay thank you just to let you know that you don't have that much surface on the roof for photo-letates but hopefully you can convince the owner to hit some you know sustainability benchmarks absolutely any other questions in the hall all right so I want to hear to speak on the behalf or an opposition to the project yes mr. Chair members of the board are partnering with the Mayor's Office of the Department of Services this time the Mayor's Office such prefer judgments to the board the back of information how the funding did extensive outreach to the community and that below are mill civic association on multiple occasions while some residents express concerns regarding traffic at the intersection of Washington Street Adam Street and .at many were in support of the mixed use building at this location on the BPA has voted in the approval of this project and with that we can purchase the floor thank you thank you oh mr. Chair secretary we have one letter of opposition due to traffic okay thank you any other anybody else okay all right kind of motion please mr. Chair I like to put for a motion of approval okay the BPA can be completely necessary probably not since they already are going through that process with BPA they already kind of just want another bite of the apple oh I guess but you see this you did a go ahead I'm going and I did yeah I mean I if there if there is any discussion I would just say a little bit more clarity on you know what is that amenny space and just program but it seems fine yeah okay all right there's a second second okay uh mr. uh mr. Fortune yes uh it's better but it's better than Ross yes it's done yes mr. Rogero and I am also in favor of motion passes thank you comment your next case calling B.O.A. 1336189 2005 gochester avenue mr. extended driveway to park vehicles on the side of the house violation of article 75 section 41 on three parking article 65 section nine presidential dimension regulation and sufficient usable open space amenant just hold the record man see times 2005 do it just to have do it just to mask 02124 mr. I said are you in the honor of this uh home yes okay so tell us what you want to do well uh I had already I'm sent an email to Robert oh I remember this yes and uh and he told and uh and he told me that um he was going to submit it so I don't have nothing to give but you all pretty much know what I did I just I already you know just excavate you know um ask for through my driveway I removed the bushes and fence so it's just a um uh extended driveway and I submitted that information to um Robert Domingo already I thought he already submitted something to you all okay well we have what we have um yeah I was I recall this is sort of that funny you funny shaped lot and I think there was a question about whether you could make it pass the corner of the house with enough uh with enough distance is mr. Domingo what you want uh yes I am mr. Chenney yeah is is that your recollection as well yes you said it is but um it it does work and I just wanted to get my approval to this uh for this plan okay well okay that that's very helpful because I recall this project um go coming in front of the board and I know that some of the issues was whether it would be considered front yard parking that was the major kind of uh you know zoning issue right and whether I think the driveway was wide enough to make it pass that little corner there okay so as far as the BTD is concerned and mr. Domingo we're okay um it's better for us than any other thoughts uh no if Bob is okay with it I I'm fine with it as well just okay okay any questions in the board anybody want to speak on behalf of the applicant or in opposition mr. Chair Garnum with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Service Students are off the Selden Brothers meaning on May 15th there were no concerns expressed by the community I would add in the church the book thank you everybody else okay can I have a motion motion second uh mr. Fortune yes better for us uh yes done yes you're on yeah and I'm in favor have a wonderful driving this time thank you very much thank you Bob on an xk's calling d away 1 30 9 4 6 5 39 64 Washington street just to conduct the existing basement into a new unit change out for three units to four units the violation of article 67 section 8 a multi-family use is the bid article 67 section 56 insufficient parking space required for unit two article 67 section 9.4 location of the main entrance that that shelf front piece the front plot line article 67 section 8.2 basement units use some regulations article 67 section 9 lot of areas insufficient article 67 section 9 lot width is insufficient article 67 section 9 affluent area ratio is excessive and article 67 section 9 lot frontage is insufficient naming address for the record please mr. Dissolera you you don't not check in i'm looking at the list not as you think still not in you don't not check in at all today no is there anyone on for 39 64 Washington street no i'm checked on yesterday or today is there a call this case there was a lot of money answer questions so i'm just here it's 127 i'm going to make a motion for denial of it off right second mr. forge yes but it's better verizon yes mr. regiro yeah and i also in favor of the motion capacity send us a chair that's it that's right all the right look thank you all the frank hanging in there and we the the meeting is now adjourned thank you thank you thank you everyone recording stopped you you you you