 This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law and the executive order of Governor Baker, suspending certain provisions thereof due to the ongoing public health. This hearing of the board is being held remotely by the WebEx event platform. The hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. This information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our interest and meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is most those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, first click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Again, if you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the racket. I would like to request that everybody put their speaker on mute so that we have no feedback. I would like to thank Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Mr. Mr. good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Good morning. Mr. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Is Jeff Hampton here from the BPDA? Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Mr. Hampton. All I'd like to thank Kevin O'Connor who is a function as the executive secretary to the board for his service and welcome Tom a broom as his replacement. So let's get started, Mr. Fortune. Thank you Madam Chair. The first owner is the extensions calling KSPOA 87871-472 Dresser Street. Madam Chair, this did expire yesterday on 532-21, it was directly at birth extension. Even now just for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Daniel Tascano, I'm an attorney at law one state street monster mask. And we respectfully request in an extension to this matter we conducted the BPDA design review and unfortunately COVID hit in the middle of proceeding. So hoping that we can get an extension so we will go forward with this project. Thank you. You may have a motion please. For a one-year extension. It's time for second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling B086597028688, got Washington Street. Madam Chair, this was a court case that did expire in 526-2019. The grant this would be their first extension. Kaminad Dr. Fuller, I could please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Scott Kirkwood here, Boston real estate collaborative. 1904 Washington Street, Boston mask, 0108. May I have a motion please? Motion for one-year extension. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Excuse me Madam Chair. If I may ask before we move on, what is our effective extension date? Today. OK, so it's as of today. Can you take all your questions to the executive secretary please? Absolutely, thank you very much. May I have the next case? Following the next case, calling BLA-8553521461468, get Hill Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on June 14th, 2021. It would be their first extension. Kaminad Dr. Fuller, I can please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. This is George Moran, chairman of the attorney of the business address of 350 West Broadway, in South Boston, representing the heat Nick 4. OK, thank you. May I have a motion please? It's on your extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. And you opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I just want to clarify. I had those in wrong order. I just called in dress of street. So the first one to be called was Bucket Hill. OK, everything is in order as far as the extension to concern. OK, so just want to make sure Mr. Daskana and Mr. Marancy who represent the owners are aware of that. And it's on the record as such. Thank you. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Calling your next case to building code, HBOA 116-1272-19 West Newt. This is a roof deck to be constructed at 119 West Newt. Violations, a ninth edition 780 CMR 1011 STAways 1011.12.2. All STAways used for the roof access to an occupied roof shall be Bucket Hill. It's not a hatch. Amen. Now just to the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Zachary Shedlock with Collins Construction representing 119 West Newt and Street. So tell us why I'm here. So here we are. As part of our building permit, we've applied to inspectional services for an amended permit to build a roof deck on the building. And as part of our application and design review, ISD came back to us with a code, citing a code violation, noting that the roof access should be through a penthouse. But that's in conflict with the south end zoning bylaws, which do not allow out penthouses. And we're proposing an accessible hatch to the skylight hatch to reach the roof deck. And we've also sent this information to the Kyla Glock neighborhood association. And they had no opposition to that when we sent that. Thank you. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Any issues with this? No. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to support. Is there a second? I'll second, sir. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm going to call the 930 hearings, the deferral of the problems. 930. 42 average street. Mr. Secretary. Oh, sorry. Say that again, sir. 42 average street for the record on the PLA 11739874Q average street. Name and address directly. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lynns, 245 Summars Street. East Foss on behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, I'm well aware of the board's admonitions previously on deferrals. This project was started some time back. It does involve basement units. I understand that the BPE's recommendation on this is for approval subject to a proviso that there are no basement units that will require us to go back and look at the programming for this building. I also understand the mayor's office-nabored services not supporting this. We'd like to use that time to update these plans and come back with a project that is a little bit more acceptable to the board. May I have a motion for deferral? So moved. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? How much time do you think you need? I assume we're giving deferrals out to July. Mr. Secretary, we can go into July 13th. Well, later if you need to. If there's something sooner, I think we can get it done. But if July 13th is it, and as well, we have a couple that are open for the 22nd and the 29th, but as to the chair's question, whatever, the comfortable. June 29th could work. I believe so. So we'll do June 29th at 12.30. Thank you very much. Are there any other different, sorry, or shall it grow? Sir, so no, we've gotten the motions all in place. Any other deferrals? Sorry. Hearing none, Madam Chair, I'll call the first case. Following January 117 2896 34th, part in street. This is a chain of art from existing 4 unit building from a three family and 24 family. The violation is Article 27G. Senator Eastbars and I part, Article 53 Section 8. A four family use of the bin. Article 53 Section 9. The layer ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 50 score. Roos structure restrictions. At the courty three session 56. рекer,안�pret 등 strict jpift yap Article 53 Section 9, the way is in submission. Name the address to the director, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz of Council to Adams and Marancy with the business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. With me today is James Ristling, who is the architect, as well as Karen O'Sullivan, who is the owner. Madam Chair, this is an application for a change of occupancy from a three-family dwelling to a four-family dwelling with no work to be performed to the existing footprint of the building. Previously, this building was, well, currently, the building is a three-family within in-lar suite that is within the partial part of the third floor, as well as the fourth floor. So again, all the existing violations were preexisting here. There was one violation that you will notice that was picked up, which is the building height excessive between stories and feet. Those two violations were picked up due to an erection of a structure on the roof that you'll notice. That erection, that structure was put in place for a second means of egress for the safety and the well-being of the tenants. That was done without the knowledge of a contract and pulling any sort of the proper permits over also here today to legalize that. Again, just for the safety and the well-being of those tenants to have a second means of egress. Okay, so there's something that tells us here that there were smoke done without permits. Correct, and that would be what they were. Yes, correct. That was the work that was done with all the permits was that that roof structure restriction, which we've decided for. That was the second means of egress. There is a window on the fourth floor, as you will notice from the pictures there, that would allow the tenants in case of any sort of, any sort of fire that will allow them a second means of egress. So you'll notice that the structure, the steel structure that was put would allow them to come from that window down safely down to the fire escape exit. And that's all right. Okay, so let's just walk our way through this. How is this transformation proposed to a co-from a three to a four family? Is that unit in the basement? No, it is not. So the basement itself is just used for storage and for utilities. You'll notice that this current property, the way it lies, it was a three family with an in-law suite attached to it. They've all been selling. We don't recognize in-law suites, it's either a three family or a four family. So give us a breakdown of the number of bedrooms and the unit sizes, please. Okay, so if we can, if we could scroll to slider, I believe it's slide 18, that will give us the specific unit sizes. They are all one bedrooms. And so let me just, let's see if they could scroll down to the 18 and that will give us. Okay, so please scroll. So the unit area is unit one right here, is you'll notice that unit one is 549 square feet. Unit two is 602 square feet. Unit three is 530 square feet. And the proposed unit number four would be, would be 618 square feet. All of these units already having separate utilities to the units as well. That's why I refer to it as in-law suite. Okay, how would the plans Mr. Robinson, any concerns about that second means of egress? Not specifically, but I do have a question. Is the building not sprinkler correct? I'm gonna have to defer to, so James, James is here with me accompanying his, the architect. Hello, James Rislinov, LR Designs, Cambridge Message, Schussitz. No, the building is not sprinklered. Okay. Any other questions from the board? So, why, yeah, I have a question. This unit four is at 618 square feet. You're calling the in-law apartment. It is a fully, it has kitchen and baths, everything, why you not just consider this a four family? What makes that different? Well, that's what we've read. That's the change of occupancy now is to a four family. Previously, so the owner purchased this building with the way it currently lied back in 2013, and that's how it was all referred to and separated as. As you can see now, I mean, giving the close proximity to a matter of train station, you know, the size of that unit number three wouldn't need to be double that size of splitting the units would be a perfectly fit for this neighborhood. I didn't really answer my question. So essentially, this is changing. It's currently legally a three unit, but it functions as a four unit, is that correct? Well, the unit number four and three were affiliated together. So now by legalizing the occupancy from a three to four will allow them to operate as a four family. Oh, so you and three and four were combined, correct? All right, but they have separate kitchens and baths and utilities? Yes. Any other questions from the board? One good question from our architect. Does the three to four unit trigger any requirements? I took a look at the photos of the presentation. Many requirements for hard wiring. I know there's no single system, but the alarm system, the final alarm system. The fire alarm system is hard-wired, correct? It is, okay. Yes. I did have a question about this sprinkler, but I think we should probably take a least part of the literature. And press that into Robinson. Right. We can address that. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? With more than one, I'm sure in the members of the board, we will look to go under record support for this proposal. During the community process, this proposal receives strong support from the abandons and from Jeffries Point neighborhood association. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have letters of support as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? I'll leave the motion. Please be mad on Chair. Sorry. I'm sorry, Chairman. I can't fully answer a sideby Georgia's office. Would like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Please excuse me. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to support without with no building co-relief. I'll second out. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Great. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-1-1-5-1-4-4-8-153-Everage Street. This is an install deck. Branding and install deposit decking and install railing. To the violation of Article 27T, this is an A-Spaust and I-Prod. Medical 53, Section 52, Roof, Ruckshaw Restriction. May I have the floor, I have the floor. Aye. Dennis Topikov, 153-Everage Street. So, I tell us, is this so? How many units in this building? There's three units. So this is a three family. Tell us the details about that deck. Yes, so the deck will only be, I personally reside in unit number three. The deck will solely be for the responsibility of unit three. This is just a brand new redone building that turned from a single family into a three family within the building itself, within my unit itself. The way we're gonna access the roof deck is through a staircase that resides in our living room. Through a headhouse, and what you can see right there at the top of the screen, the roof deck is gonna be 200 square feet. We have structural permission from architects that everything is kind of legal. So is this a newly constructed building? Did you just say? It was not newly constructed. It was converted from a one to a three. Were there any provisions then about roof decks or headhouses or anything like that? Did this come, I'm assuming this needed to come to this board. So let me just ask that. Okay. Not that I'm aware of. I wasn't the one that did that work at the time. Just to confirm also the access to this is actually through a hatch, not the headhouse, correct? Yes. Yes, just for the batch, just for the board. So there is an existing headhouse there, but it's a mechanical headhouse, but this access is gonna be through the hatches. You can see it on the plan. Okay. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of the proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair. I'm members of the board. Lina Tameli with the Mayor's Office of Naval Group Services. We would like to learn the recording support for this proposal. During the community process, this proposal receives strong support from Jeffries Point neighborhood association and from a barracks. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair. Members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Savi George's office, would like to guard record and support this project. Thank you. Now, Chair Secretary, we have one support on the Jeffries Point neighborhood. Okay. No raise hands. May I have a motion, please? General proof. I'll make a motion to support. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling DOA 117-319-665-Paltan Street, this is a rectate for unit residential dwelling, the violation of Article 53, Section 56, AfD-Fighting and Dinsufficient. Article 53, Section 8, a multi-family dwelling in a building is the bit. Article 53, Section 9, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the height, number of stories is excessive. Article 53, Section 9, number of height, beat is excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the side-jad is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the ray out is insufficient. And the Article 27T-Dead 5, this is the East Boston iPod. Name and add bills. Well, the rectate. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Linz, 245 Sumner Street, East Boston, on behalf of the petitioner, Esqually Garchino, also with me is Adam Gibbethan, who is the project architect. Madam Chair, this is a proposed infill development in the Ego-Hose-Sectomy, East Boston. It is on the, what I consider to be, well, is the first major block of Falcon Street as you come up from the main street at Meridian Street. The general character of this area is a mix of multi-family and triple-decker-style dwellings. Our proposal is for a four-unit four-story structure on the vacant lot, which you're seeing here in the photo. I would point out that this lock is separately assessed and separately titled, this is not, although there is parking on it, is parking for our area vehicles in the neighborhood, but it is not permitted to be used for open-air parking under the, under the instructional services guidelines. You can go to the next slide, please. Councilor, is there record owner here 65 Falcon Prime Allseek because I don't see that corporation on company filed? The next, yes, prime, prime Allseek is the, is the, are joining properly and correct. So what we're showing, can jump back to the render again. So we're showing you the rendering of the proposed structure. As you can see here, the relationship to the existing triple-deckers, a couple of things to point out is that the structures on either side certainly have the raised elevators, raised basements based upon when they were constructed. Our building will actually enter a grade to ensure compliance with any accessibility. So it does, although it is a bit taller than the surrounding buildings, it's relatively in scale with what we have on that section of Falcon Street. How much, how much taller is it, councilor? So the building is along Falcon. We estimate about 36, 37 feet. Our building is set at 40 feet. Okay. Let me just see, I mean, everything here makes sense. Roof structure restrictions. Are you planning a roof deck? We're actually not showing a roof deck during the community process. We eliminated the roof deck at the request of one of the bothers along the street, West Eagle Street. So at this time, we are not proposing a roof deck, but that's something that certainly they would revisit with the community if they decide to do that. Okay. How was the plan from Sir Robinson? But the plans are good. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair and members of the board. I'm Linda Trameli, the Mayor of Southeast of neighborhood services. We would like to run the record and support for this proposal. We recognize there were some health concerns regarding parking and height of the building during the community process, but the applicant addressed several of the concerns of the apparatus and we received a layer of support from the apparatus, including two direct arrived. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have about, what is the support we have one letter of opposition? Opposition is basically injecting traffic. Many units already in the community. Okay. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Mr. Master, is there anybody on from the District City Council's office? Do you know? Madam Chair, I spoke with Ricardo this morning to find out this position. I do not believe he's going to be on a call today. I can confirm and represent the board that the councillor has no position on this. Yes, she also sent an email stated which letter, which property she was supporting opposition of the, she just sent it, but I can still hold it over. This was not in the list. Okay, this was on the list for this one. Second, she did not have a position on this one. May I have a motion, please? No proof of the EPA design of you. Is there a second? Second, Madam Chair. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case, calling BLA1071314273. This is a crazy existing structure to buy lots that are directly for family residential dwelling with associated parking. The violation of Article 53, Section 56, Archery Parking Hall. All right. Good. Article 53, Section 56, Archery Parking requirements, clear access to the moving areas on old lot. Article 53, Section 56, we design spaces, design of spaces. Article 27T-5, this is in the East, Place, and I plot. Article 53, Section 8. I call you. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, number of stories that exceed it. Article 53, Section 9, the maximum allowed type that exceed it. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient use of both in space. Article 53, Section 9, the side-dad setback. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient additional law to your unit. So everybody here in that, did we have a little audio? Did you hear the beginning and by like that? Yes, thank you. Be in an address for the right, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Briegel, with Dr. Scono. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, I'm sorry. I'm going to be recusing myself, Madam Chair, and the Senator Secretary, please no. Okay. With an address of 11 B, Constreet. This is, can I just ask, is this city reality? Yes, I'm not sure. Okay. With me, I also have Adam Glassman as the architect on the project as well. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead, go ahead with your presentation. Okay, thank you, Madam Chair. As you can see in the photo rendering in front of you, that is the proposal and we're proposing, we're seeking to combine two separate parcels, front to back and raise the existing structure, outdated structure, and erect a four-story residential building with four condominium units and three parking spaces in the rear. Excuse me, Ms. Amud, can you please scroll through so we can kind of see what it looks like on the lot? Thank you, go ahead, Councillor. For currently, there is no parking, but there is a shared passageway between the two buildings, there's 10 feet, that'll be used as our interim's point and passageway to the back parking. The sub-district is a 3F-2000. We have 2483 square feet in lot size. Our floor plans, just to go over them, our lower level so there'd be nothing in the basement except mechanical, common mechanical room. Our first floor would house our main entrance and our first unit would be ADA accessible by way of lift once you get into the foyer. The unit one is a 725 square foot one bedroom, one bath. As we go up to the second floor, it's a 975 square foot three bedroom two bath, third floor, 950 square foot three bedroom two bath and finally our fourth floor unit is a thousand square foot three bedroom two bath. The violations that were mentioned, the use, although it's mixed, there are some of the floors in the area. It is a 3F zone and we're proposing four units. Lot area so we would we have 483 square feet of additional space. We would need a thousand for our additional unit. Our FAR, what's allowable is 1.0. We're proposing 1.79. Our building height, although it is four stories, many of the buildings are elevated. So a lot of them are 36 to 37 feet, we're at 41 feet, six inches, our highest point. Can you jump to the parking so we can understand how the parking is supposed to work? Sure, so there is a existing passageway, five feet on each side of buildings, us in the building next door to 75. You would enter a 10 foot passageway, you would go to the rear of the property, I believe we also in our plan show the parking spaces laid out and back and there are three parking spaces, they're eight by 16 foot spaces, so they're compact spaces, but there's currently no spaces on the site now. That's right there, sorry. Okay, yes, thank you. Okay. Madam Chair, Bob Domingo is spoken this, would you like it into the record? Yes, please. We got a 273 half street, he said reduced the number of spaces to two, due to poor maneuverability and require for the space to be placed on a 60 degree angle to safety access and egress. Thank you, what's the parking requirement? So for number of spaces would be five, we're proposing three. Parking was not a huge issue, but it was something the community did ask us and their support. Okay, any other questions from the board? Is there an easement or what relates to your afternoon with the neighbor for the shared driveway? Yes, Mr. O that's been in place for a long period of time, but yes. What do you have? What do you access now if you go through that passageway? So it's just blocked off, it has a dink on it, so there's not, it would just go back to the rear yards. Madam Chair, this is also in the landmarks, but they've yet to receive the applications. Okay. Bye. May I, any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Lena Tremele with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services, we'd like to welcome the Recording Support for this proposal. We're in the community process, the applicant, others, most of the contents of the apparatus, and this proposal received support from Maverick Central Neighborhood Association with the Provider of Adina Street 3, near the property and providing a list of parking spaces. We also received the lyrics of support for the proposal. Thank you. So, Mr. Mele, so that basically the approval is contingent on the provision of three parking spaces then. That's correct. Thank you. Go ahead Ms. Foley. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Jaren Foley, Councilor Saby Jojus Office, would like to echo the sentiments of the Mayor's Office and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have letters of support and one letter of opposition. The opposition is an elderly parent living in the home next door and some health concerns. Madam Chair, I have no raised answer. Ms. Ambassador, and how did the District Councilor did she have a statement in this one? Right this one. Madam Chair, we do have something on records. Kevin is looking at it in support. In support. In support. Ms. Hamilton, can you please chime in? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Hanson, Senior Zoning Planner at the PPDA. We recommended denial with our prejudice based on the height of the structure and also with the influence that we have in parts as we see then our 85 application yet. And we were in agreement with Mr. Domingo from DTT about the number of spaces. Either they should be reduced or eliminated. And then so if we appear that with the notice from Maverick, that their approval is contingent on the three parking spaces and we understand that those three spaces cannot be provided from the technical expertise from Mr. Domingo that that's what we should take into consideration as we proceed with our decision. Madam Chair, may I make a statement? No, thank you. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to denial with our prejudice. I think they can bring this back up. No, we figured out. I'll second that out. All vote in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. All your next case calling the OA 1128243 14 Murray Court. This is a spiral stalemate on Dalcony moving to the roof deck and construction of a roof deck. The violation, that is 9 section one. Reconstruction extension of an on-conforming building. Notical 53 section 52. Roost structure restrictions. Name and address, Fuller, I can please. This is Dan Griffith and Diana Delacone for 14 Murray Court. And again, as mentioned there for a construction of a roof deck could probably clear on the following slides, but where the third unit and a three unit of Chandmikondo is to just be for private use. It's only accessible from the third unit. Make a slide, the comments are. OK. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plan's are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Lena Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Naval Services. We would like to go to the recording support of this proposal. This proposal receives strong support from my parents and from Jeffries Point Naval Hood Association. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Karen Foley, Councilor Saby George's office. We'd like to go and make it in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one letter of support. May I ask the Griffiths? Is this new construction? I know the set garage doors. I didn't know is this new construction or not? It is. It was constructed. I want to say construction is completed in March of last year, although we were not involved in the construction of the building. OK. So Mr. Hampton, this should have gone through a design review. And this still looks like that's a solid garage door on this. OK. Well, our recommendation on this one right now, too, was also a design review. I mean, I know it's only for a spiral staircase, but if you'd like to take a look at it. Absolutely. I mean, honestly, if it was just completed a year ago, it would have been under design review with our concerns about the garage door, because that's not a new concern. And so we just need to think about that. Maristograph and two owns the garage door. It's owned by an Alcona Minium Trust, so it's owned by the three unit owners. And according to the drawing that you just showed, it is it a solid door as displayed? When you ask if it's a solid door, I'm not sure I understand it's segmented. Does that? I mean, if I'm standing on the curb cart, am I looking at a wall? Yes. Your wall. I am. OK. Yes. OK. So if I can ask, yeah, I'm sorry, it was a griffin. So this was just recently completed? Is that correct? I think, I want to say it was March. I think I want to say to take a certificate of occupancy was, well, no, that's actually not true. It was completed around March of 2020, and then the final certificates of occupancy had incurred our unit with June of 2020. The only reason why I said Madam Chair, this went to the board of appeal, went to the board of appeal in 2012 for zoning relief to a record three family, or so it was only for design review. I don't know if it received extensions over the years. I can't find an updated appeal for 14 party courts, so I don't know if this was something that has been in the system for eight or nine years. And do you know who the applicant was at that time? Pulling it up. Right. Madam Chair, I can shed some light if that's OK. If attorney lends. Yes. So Mr. Anton is correct. There was originally a proposal in 2012 that was abandoned. The board heard this case for the construction of the current building in January of 2016, and at which time was approved. The only proviso were BPD design review and no relief from the building code respect to 521 CMR. I do not believe I may be mistaken, but I think the board's heightened concern over cracked current doors was not something that was evident back in 2016. I believe that was a bit later. So with the design review, I think that was not an issue at the time. And so 16, 17, 18, so did that. And I'm assuming it came in for extensions, because the relief is there for two years. And they would have to have come in for an extension at least sometime in 18. I believe that's correct, then, Chair. And I don't have my deep specific, but there was also permanent extension acts in effect during that period. So it was a statutory extension as well. OK, so given that information, we have almost. Madam Chair, I just need to pull out the record. If we do have a council headwits and support of this project as well. OK, may I have a motion, please? Motion to be drawn with BPD design review. So I think I'm sure. All those in favor? Hi. Hi, hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling BLA 116-3168, 18 are a union part. This is a new two-car garage at the rear of the existing single family apartment 18 union park. And from to the garage from the public alley 701 at the rear of 18 union parks. The violate. I'm sorry, you. We just missed you. I have a 50 floor section nine. OK, go ahead. Do so that it's just clear. But for the record calling BLA 116-3168, 18 are union park. This is a constructing new two car garage at the rear of the existing single family home at 18 union park. The entrance to the garage from public alley 701 at the rear of 18 union park. The violation of Article 32 section 4. This is G card applicability. Article 64 section 9 and the dimensional regulations. Accessory building. Article 64 section 36, Austrian parking and lowering design size and Article 64 section 37.4. The rear yard setback. A four foot minimum, name and address for the record flakes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCas. LeCasla 75, Arlington Street in Boston. I am the attorney for the homeowners, Laura and Andrew Copans. If we could go back to a couple of slides, please, Madam Ambassador. Sure thing. OK. So this is the front of the home on union park. The garage is proposed for the rear, which is along public alley 701, which is a very similar condition that exists behind most of these row houses. Next slide, please. And here on the BPDA zoning map in highlighted in red is 18 union park. And public alley 701 runs between union park and upton street and serves all of the homes along upton street. And that side of union park between Shamanav and Shaman street in the south end. So Councillor, can we move more quickly to the actual garage? So we see how it works in relationship to the house and the rear yard? Sure. If we could go back one side to the site plan. Here's the site plan, Madam Chair. Showing public alley 701 at the rear of the property. The proposed garage is 22 by 22 feet or approximately 484 square feet. The house is shown and there will remain a deck and a rear yard area and then access from the rear yard into the garage as well. And go to the next slide and we'll show you elevations of the proposed garage structure. So the upper left hand corner shows it's a two car garage. The mouth of the garage door is 18 feet. The design requirements for parking spaces are 8 1 1 2 by 20. So for two spaces we need 17 feet of space and we have 18 proposed. We need 20 feet in depth and we have 22 proposed. So the parking spaces meet the design requirements of Article 64. The elevation shows a garage height of 11 4. The maximum for accessory buildings is 15 so we meet. So let's just ask you sorry. How far is the entrance from the edge of that public alley? Is it for feet, for inches? What is it? It's the garage entrance is set back three feet from the edge of the alley. Okay. And tell us what the rest of the problems look like. How many garages are there? So if we could scroll down a couple of slides I took photos of the existing context of public alley 701. Starting right here on Shameda that the entrance to alley is this structure here. Next slide please. And as you go from Shameda down public alley 701 you'll see on the right hand side starting with the center block building on Shameda. There is a succession of six existing garages that have already been constructed. And this would be number seven on this particular stretch. But as you go further down toward Tramon Street there are a couple of other structures either garages, walls and fences or other parking enclosures. Similarly on the left hand side on Upton Street there's a series of both fences and garage structures on the Upton Street side as well. Okay. Come still hold on a minute. Mr. Seminelli. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board Christian Seminelli, Boston, growling of trust and we have both the BIOC approval and no arm letters from the applicant. There is an updated set of revised plans to account for the additional footage for the garage which water and sewer has approved. I just haven't issued the approval letter yet but the current letter that we have does meet the one inch capture requirement for the G-Cod so I'm comfortable with with proceeding with the existing letter. Mr. Fortune. Yes Madam Chair. Mr. Domingo has spoken this one as well from BTD. So I'll put that into the record regarding 18R Union Park. He believes that design can work however due to the proximity to the public way. He would suggest a video and audio line to be included to one of the Deskines of Oncoming vehicles. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are a little hard to read but the information seems to be correct. Can I just ask the Councillor what's the material that is being proposed? I just can't see the notes. Yes. The material proposed Mr. Robinson is a board formed concrete wall which is a decided design design choice by my clients working with the architect and as you are aware the finished look of board formed concrete wall is that it reads like wood plank so it's not red brick but this stretch of alley has a variety of design styles for the existing garages. Some are brick, some are cladden copper. There are some glass and steel structures that have been added to the rear of Union Park so this quite a wide variety of design styles so they've opted for this board formed concrete wall for a more contemporary aesthetic. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Hi, yes. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Kim Kursioli from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The Mayor's Office would like to go and record and support this proposal and a butters meeting was held on March 3rd and support was given by their director butters and any concerns were appropriately addressed by the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor will like to go and record in support based on feedback from neighbors and a good community process. The Union Park Neighborhood Association also reported no concerns. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. Karen Foley from Councillor Saviour's Office would like to go and record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair and Members of the board. Paul Sol, the City Council of that Legislature and the Mayor of the board. Madam Chair and Secretary here we have a couple of letters of support. And the BPD request design review. Madam Chair, I don't even know if this is something that landmarks. It's something that landmarks would cover because it's technically you can see it from the public alley. If they don't cover it, we'd like to do the design review especially with the garage door. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador will be set. Oh yeah, I'll say I have no raised hands on my hand. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion approve with BPD a design review only if landmarks. Southern landmarks doesn't weigh in on it. And do we want BPD review because or are something to talk about video audio alarm? Sure if that can't be handled in design review yet. Okay. Can you agree with me? Is there a second? All those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you, Karen Lane. I'm going to next case calling BLA 114 254 32 15 1 Hill Learn Street. This is to operate a supporting outdoor sale of used car business. There's no work on site. We'll be contracts with the service company. The parking lot holds more than 30 vehicles. But we leave parking for the office staff and visitors. The violations Article 6 Section 3A, additional condition and restricted parking district. Article 65 Section 15. Outro a sale of used motor vehicles is for this. David Adred, further. I get pleased. Morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Cell Blocked. Madam Chair, members of my client is Joseph Quarenty, who is the owner of Fleet Corps, a Fleet Management Services business that he founded in 2002. The site in question 50 Bon Hillern Street. It is a local industrialized owned island, sandwiched between the southeast expressway and the red line tracks. And for a point of reference, it would be directly behind the Coventry Centre Building in Doichester. Mr. Quarenty, as I said, has been operating the business for just 2002. At this location, he has been providing shuttle bans that would be parked on site and that would leave the site and shuttle passengers between Logan International Airport, predominantly and various locations in the Greater Boston area. As can be imagined, his business was decimated during the pandemic. What he would like to do now is change the operations of the business from storing these bans on site and running the shuttle business from the site to selling shuttle bans and use your buyers. So changing it from providing shuttle services to actually selling the bans. Nothing would change in terms of the site. There are parking spaces on site for 30 vehicles plus 10 spaces for visitors and employee parking. Nothing would change with that with the number of spaces that is said. It would just be the nature of the operation. The violations under the applicable allies zoning are the outdoor sale of motor vehicles, which is forbidden use. As I say, the vehicles are already stored on site outside and the additional conditions in a restricted parking district, which is a conditional use standard under Article 6. That'll pause. They'll take any questions that the members may have. So it's a total of 30 cars, 10 employee parking, any screening and buffering proposed? It's actually a total of 40, so there are 30 vehicles right now that are in the fleet services that are currently going, you know, that would have been available into the previous model of going out as shuttle buses. There are 10 additional parking spaces on site. Six of those are employee spaces for visitor spaces. So it's 30 spaces, you know, would change in terms of from being vehicles being stored there for shuttle services to being sold from there. No screening and buffering is proposed. I had actually submitted photos of the site, aerial photos with the presentation, but apparently I didn't make it in terms of, oh, there we go. So there's a good view of the site. I mean, I understand that typically or outdoor motor vehicles, whether it's sales or storage screening and buffering is required. This is most likely a fairly short term use, but of course, you know, whatever the board desires have worked to see fit to approve this in terms of provides. Those, my client would of course comply with that. And any additional signage proposed? No signage is there. It says, it says, we core and no additional signage as part of the application certainly and no additional signage is, has even been contemplated by Mr. Carrenty. And any repair or upgrades occurring on site? No, none at all. It's simply as I said, the vehicles would be stored with a currently R-stored fleet vehicles, again, except, you know, they wouldn't be rented. They would be sold. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans to pick this Councillor has indicated. Thank you. Madam, not much. Any questions? Yes. I'm just secretary here. Mr. Domingo has spoken this one as well. He says regards to 50 bond feller and screen plans are extremely poor. An element to make an accurate opinion on this case, B2D would like to request professional plans to be submitted. He understands that the parking lot has been an operation at the quite some time. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chad, I just, I guess I have a question for you or for the applicant. Could we put a sunset on this? Could we do like two years this applicant only? That's possible. Okay. Yeah, Mr. General, George Brancy speaking that, sorry, we're going to wrap up. We actually discussed this during community process. And I suggested it because I anticipated that it would be a provisor of the board. With respect to the plans, I mean, not to advise the board on the job, but I'd be happy to get a better site plan. If the board did wish to approve this and wish to hold signatures, you know, the site plan is what it is. It's rather crude. I did not submit the permit application, but that's something certainly we could provide in very short time. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Adam Chair. Members of the board, Haley Dillamere, office and neighbourhood services. I'd like to go record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatcon, City Council, Frank Baker's office, we'd like to go record and support. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no waste hands. Thank you. Question for Councillor. Is that bill board on this property or is it on an adjacent property? It is part of, yes, it's on this property. It's part of this site. It's not connected with this business. It's a standalone bill board that's been there for, I don't know how long, but it is on the 50 Vaughn Hiller in sight, I believe. And is it a legal bill board or not? I have not done any investigation, so being an attorney, I don't want to opine. All I know is that, Joe, it's been there for quite a while. Okay, so is that, is it possible for Tom O'Kevin to do a quick look up and see if it is, if we can get a read on whether it's legal or not? Madam Chair, it's Kevin. I'll take a quick look, but if it's been there for that long, it might take longer for me to be able to find it, but I'll see what's available in the system. Madam Chair, it's Jeff Hanson, it's VTDA, it's the one I'm thinking of that might be on tea for our property. Might be on tea property, really? Up here on Vaughn Hillen. There's one down at the opposite end, is that the one you're sleeping off? I noticed the view from the building, looking, can you please miss, yeah, said what's right on the right hand side, it looks like there's a bill board right at the end of the property there? Up to the right, yeah. So that's the one, it looks like it's on this property, it doesn't look like it's on tea property. If you look at the, looks like the site plan, maybe two more, maybe next page down, you can see it looks like it is on the, that's it. The picture, it looks like the property line kind of pushes off the page up there, so it's a little unclear. For some clarity, Madam Chair, do you have a question? The reason I don't know is Mr. Carrenty doesn't own the land, but I actually do represent the person who owns the land. That person purchased it, I think just last year. So, you know, I don't have any long term experience with this as a site. As I said, my belief is that the bill board is on the land that's owned by my client on which Mr. Carrenty, you know, this business exists where he rents for my client, but I don't have any information on the bill board, except I just know from experience that it's been there for a very long time. Because we do know that there have been some billboards that have been up for a long time, but have just been not legalized in any way. So, okay. So, Mayor, have a motion, please. Can make a motion approve with the following proviso for this applicant only in two years, or two years. And then can we do pending verification on the billboard? Yep. I mean, is the two connected though, Mr. George Morancy, I don't understand if they were connected for zoning purposes. Well, you know, if we notice that some things there, we don't know that it's legal or not. We can't look the other way, can we? No, but would it be appropriate as a proviso to this decision? Or is this just a... This is... This is... ...the parenthetical too. This will be parenthetical, but we will call the owner responsible for follow-up, should they be in need for follow-up? Okay, is there... Certainly. I can follow-up with the instructional service. Mr. Morancy, hold on, is there a second? No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on the motion. Are we doing anything with BTD with professional plans or anything? So Mr. Domingo can take a look at it. Do we need to? Move to make a motion, Joe. I mean, it's a parking lot that the gentleman wants to sell cars during the pandemic to try to keep his business afloat. That's why I put the two-year sunset clause. If this continues, I feel like in two years we can catch all that ads screening about offering ads. Do whatever. Okay, I'm on- I can just go to motion. I can just go to motion. So sorry, you're in fully sent a message to email to my email saying that she's in support of this project as well, I apologize. Mayor, have... So there's a motion, there's a second. All of those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, thank you. Following your next case, calling BLA 1144-288-150-152, State Street, this is a change of occupancy to cannabis establishment and modify existing layout in conditions of the building in Ontario. The violation of Article 45, Section 14, cannabis establishment uses conditional, an Article 45, Section 14, the cannabis established location shall be cited at least one-half while a 2,640 feet from another existing cannabis establishment. David Agnes, we'll direct it please. Philip Sultan and Vicente Cedar, Berg 2C Port Lane in Boston, here for Verdant, which is the proposed operator of the Marijuana business, and I'm here with the company CEO Tito Jackson and the architect David Fried. Showing you slides for a retail marijuana establishment and a marijuana product manufacturing business at 150 to 152 State Street. Hours of operation will be 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Okay hold on, hold on. I'd like to separate the sales from the manufacturer. So can you talk about the sale and tell us how everything will work as far as access, lines, hours of operation, security, all that stuff that makes a retail store walkable in the community. Sure, so if you take a look on this slide on the first floor, it's the second picture over from the left. That's the entry. There's an entry vestibule that you're probably used to seeing. You show ID, customer shows ID. Outside that vestibule is buzzed in, shows it a second time in that vestibule to the security people behind a partition and is then buzzed in further to one of three sales areas. The first floor sales area is really queuing, but also if you've made an online order, you can receive it there on the left is an online order desk. Other customers that aren't haven't made an online order will be directed up the stairs or via elevator to the second and third floor where we have additional retail spaces. So it's really an interior queuing process of moving the customers in and up to the various floors. So we have a lot of rooms to sort of not have to have any exterior queuing. What are your hours of operation? Hours of operation 10am to 9pm. Daily? Daily. And security? We have all the standard. We have exterior security to make sure nobody's using the product outside or around the premises. We do quite a bit of patient education, sign a community customer norms agreement, interior security as well. And of course all of the exterior cameras, interior cameras on every door, every window, every room where marijuana is handled or stored. So as far as sale is concerned, it's the first and second floor. Are you using the rest of the building? The third floor as well. Yeah, we use the fourth floor as administrative offices. Fifth floor is a staff room where they eat lunch. Me. Sixth floor has a conference room. There's also a fulfillment area up on that floor where we get the orders, fill them and then walk them down the back staircase, which is separated from the rest of the building. So no customers can get there. We walk that down to the second and third floor where it's been ordered and provide that over to the customer. Okay, so tell us about the manufacturing? Sure. Manufacturing occurs in the basement of the building. You can, it's all of the types of products, edibles, vaporizer pins, we do extraction of the product in the basement. And we also do, you know, turning it into some products, edible products, and such. There's also a dedicated vault down on that floor. So at the end of every day, any of those products go into the vault and they come out the next morning. Again, if we, they need further work, but generally there's stored down there. And what about, so you have a hood? So where does it, where does it, so for production, how are you maintaining the air quality in the building and in proximity, be down the street or elsewhere? I think I'm going to defer to David Fried, the architect for those questions. David, can you can you speak to that? Yes, we would handle all that with mechanical system upgrades. What does that mean? So that any, any odors would be, would be continued and not vented to the exterior? Okay, I don't know enough about manufacturing, but besides odors, is there anything about, you know, second hand smoke or I don't know what that could affect the people in the building on the sidewalk or anybody else? Yeah, there's actually no combustion of the material to, to make the products. So there would be no smoke generated. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. I did one question about the exhaust. So there is an existing mechanical, looks like shaft shown in the plan, are you planning on using that to exhaust to the roof in terms of, to address Chairman's question about that? Yeah, the upgrades that would happen would be, the V16 systems and we would use existing shaft if there's room. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody in the subhead proximity to schools, playgrounds, anything like that? We meet all the buffer requirements. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support a gesture proposal? Good afternoon, Madam. Today, I'm members of the board, Joe Cobb and Joe with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to go and record and support it in this proposal. The app gets it received. Sign off to the board and cannabis board as received that plethora of community support from the downtown neighborhood associations. I'm here speaking on behalf of my colleague, John Romano. Thank you. Morning, Madam. The chairman of the board, Anna Calden from Councillor Blake's office, the council would like to go on recording support to it on this proposal. This is a 100% black owned business and has nearly 100 years of combined experience in business and management. And it will be the first and the application for a cannabis dispenser built up in the downtown area. Berlin-Ris-Presente-Ris is committed to putting restorative justice into action and seeks to hire a majority of Boston residents and people of color in their workforce and has a goal of having 20% of their employees as ex-offenders. Furthermore, barren representatives, Plansome hosting for Cory and Pugetman workshops and three jazz players in Boston neighborhoods designated as areas of disprop- disprop- propulsion impact. This proposal has also received a letter of non-opposition from the WIFE district council. Thank you. Good morning, Madam GM. I'm Mr. the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Sadi George's office, would like to echo the sentiments of Councillor Flynn and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have support letters as well. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Mr. Jackson? Yes, Madam Chair. Can you please put your name and address on the record just because that's our policy? I just talked to us very, very briefly about your hiring practices. My name is Tito Jackson. I live at 37 Scala Street, Dorchester, Mass 02121. It is our objective and we actually name this company Verde Repairative to actually use our hiring practices as a reparative measure for the failed war on drugs. We are setting aside 20% of our jobs for individuals who are prior offenders or ranchers and citizens. We are seeking to have a majority of Boston residents and we also will be paying above the city's livable wage standard starting at 16,000 hours and moving up. I'm very excited to hopefully have the most conscious cannabis company in the state of Massachusetts as well as in the country. And approximately how many high-reeds do you anticipate? We're looking at probably about 40. 40? Okay. Okay, so given this information, may I have a motion please? Motion to approve with BPDA designer view for a signage. For this applicant only. For this applicant only. Yep. Yep. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. All right. Thank you. The opposed motion carries. Good luck looking forward to seeing this. Okay. Okay. The meeting is now adjourned. We will reconvene at 11 o'clock. Good morning. The city of Boston's zoning board of appeal hearing for May 4th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law and these executive order of Governor Baker suspending certain provisions there are due to the ongoing public health strikes. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the webx platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. I will just summarize what this this all this says is that if you're here to speak and give testimony please raise your hand as soon as the case is called so that you have a chance to make sure that everything is working because and to feel that your hand is not raised please send a note to us via the chapter. If you're connected by telephone please press star three to raise your hand. Just let me repeat that. Please raise please press star three to raise your hand. As the ambassador was saying it does not hurt for you to also send us written testimony or written information for the record. As we do at the beginning of the day I will take attendance so that we and everybody in the audience is aware of who the board members are. Mr. Fortune. Still hand out, Jim. Excellent. You haven't abandoned us. Okay, Mr. Olic. Mr. Regario. Still the air still morning. Okay, Mr. Ligress. Good morning, again. Mr. Robinson. Ms. Dawng. Excellent. Mr. Robinson. I'm here. Thank you. Good morning. Okay, looking at plans. Okay. And then we the executive secretary, Mr. Brune. Mr. Hampton. So fine here. And of course we know Mizzad Woods is here with the plans. Okay, let's proceed. We're going to call the 11 o'clock hearings for deferrals with draws only for 11 o'clock. Address please. Do we have any deferrals with draws? Every now and then I'll call the first case calling VIA 117632527272. Power Street. This will propose three story edition above an existing garage for eight new residential units and moves back. The violations article 27G. This is an e-spot tonight called article 53 Section 56. Power Street parking and loading. Article 53 Section 9. The lot of areas insufficient. Article 53 Section 9. The fluid air ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9. The building has excessive and stories. Article 53 Section 9. The front yard is insufficient. And Article 53 Section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. Damon Adams for the records please. Madam Chair, the secretary, I'll be recusing myself in this matter. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board attorney Jeff Trego, with Trego and Tuscano, with the business address of 11 B. Constreet. I also have Devon Ryleef from Chu as the architects on the proposal. As was mentioned, the proposal is to change the occupancy, which is an existing garage facility. It's an automotive garage to an eight unit residential dwelling. And that would have 13 parking spaces. And this would also include that's a front picture of the existing conditions. Also to erect a three-story addition, we are keeping the existing structure and building on top and refurbishing it and to renovate the building. The zoning sub-district in this area is 3F 2000. Our lot size is one of the larger at 6426 square feet. We are proposing as we go through the project, we can pull up the plans just to go over the layout. The first or lower level, because there's a below level grade. And that is entered, that would be for parking and storage. That is entered through an existing curb cut on the right hand side of the building. That would have unit storage for units one through three. That would house our elevator shaft, sprinkle a room, bike storage, and would have seven parking spaces. And that would be accessed again through the side curb cut that's existing. The first floor would have our main entrance to the building, the residential entrance, and would have unit storage for units four through eight. That is also an existing curb cut. They would be accessed through garage door that would bring you right at grade. And that would also house an additional six parking spaces. As we go up to the second floor, unit one is a one bedroom, one bath, 761 square foot unit, but also house unit two, which is a two bedroom, two bath with a deck at a 1149 square feet. Woodhouse unit three, which is a one bed, one bath with a deck at 780 square feet, and then unit four, which is a two bedroom, two bath with a deck at 1203 square feet. As we go up to the third floor, we recessed that third floor back, where pulled 12 feet from power street. And that houses units five, six, and seven. Those are two bed, two bath, all of them. Unit three would have a green roof, and that's a thousand, a green roof deck, front deck, that's a thousand nine square foot unit. The other two units on that floor are a thousand one hundred and forty nine and a thousand two hundred and twenty eight. And then finally, our fourth floor unit, that would be our penthouse at three bedroom, four bath that has a front deck and a side deck, and that has a 24 foot pullback from power street. That's a three thousand two hundred and seventy two square foot penthouse units. These are all um pride. These are all condominium units. As we go up to the roof, we do have a private roof deck at nine hundred and eighty six square feet. It is accessed by a headhouse that's pulled back thirty six feet from power street as well. I can go over the violations, batten chair, unless there are questions about the plans. So a number of these violations are because you're holding on to the to the current building. How many stories is this? So it is four stories, forty eight feet. As was mentioned, we do have those pullback as we go up to the third and the fourth floor. And this is thirteen parking spaces, one bedroom, seven sixty one, two bedrooms range from a thousand and nine to twelve, all three, and the three bedroom and thirty two, seventy two. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are um, get it. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, madam chair, members of the board, we need to make a list of the neighborhood services. We will like to go on the record and support for the support. And obviously the neighborhood services, the other part is meeting on November 4, 2020, where the applicant address several of the concerns of the providers and these proposed applications support from the Public Central Neighborhood Association. Thank you. More thank you, madam chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Sabi, to your office. We would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam chair, members of the board, Paul Solvin, City Council, Lashmaker Flaherty, Council to go on record and support. Madam chair, secretary here, we have one letter of support. We also have Councillor Redwoods in support. Thank you. Madam chair, I do have a raised hand here. Hi, Deborah, you've been muted. Are you going to give testimony on this case? Okay, then I have another person that sent me a message. I Kendra, you've been muted. Are you here to speak and support our opposition for this case? Oh, good. Hi, sorry, I'm speaking for a project later. Okay, sorry, thank you. Okay, madam chair, I have no raised hand. Given that information, may I have a motion place? I'll make a motion to support the meeting in your design review. Thank you. Second. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. May I please ask everybody but board members to meet them so we do not get echoes or other other random sounds. Thank you. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling BLA 11334922 Putnam Street. There is a companion case with building code BLA 11335442 Putnam Street. This is the change of occupancy. Three families to a floor family, constructing a new third story edition for the fourth unit and post roof deck. Properport on street parking. The violation of article 10 section one. Limitation of off street parking should not be located less than five feet from the side lot line. Article 27T-5 is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53-6A. A multi-family dwelling use has been. Article 53-652. Roast structure restriction. Article 53-656. Off street parking is insufficient. Article 53-69. The floor area ratio is excessive. Article 53-69. The bill has excessive in stories. Article 53-69. The bill has excessive in feet. Article 53-69. The front yard is insufficient. Article 53-69. Side yard is insufficient. Article 53-69. The rear yard is insufficient. Article 9 section two. Change in an object forming use. This looks for building code. This is the change of occupancy. Three families to a floor family. Constructing new third story edition for put unit closed roof deck in one street parking. The violations tonight, edition 780CMIS-705 exterior walls. 705.8.1 allowable areas openings. The maximum area of an unprotected and protected openings permitted in an exterior wall and any story of the bill should not be exceeded. The percentage is specified in the table. 705.8. Even adjust for the record please. David Choi on behalf of the owner of two put them street. Thank you Mr. Choi. Is this project going ahead as a three to a floor family? Yes madam. As is our youthful process, can you address the building code violation first? You still requesting this. You still have a request for relief on building code? It is my interpretation on the building code that the additional third floor on top. We're not be putting any windows along the side of the building that is less than three feet, which on this point is the upper part of the floor plan. We're not putting in any new windows on the side that is adjacent to an existing building. That means does that mean then? I don't want to put words in your mouth, but does that mean that you are not requesting building code relief? There is an uncharacterialist to if the building code applies to the existing windows on the second, third and the lower unit. It wasn't very clear as to whether the decision to interpret that from the ISD was because there are existing windows on that side. There are existing windows not on the street side, but on the side that is adjacent to the building on Condor Street. I guess my question for you is, are you going to request building code relief or not? I am going to request a building code relief on the existing units on Condor Street side. Because it does talk about the maximum area of unprotected and protected openings permitted in an exterior wall in any story of a building. So I'm assuming that then you're asking that you would need the relief. Mr. Robinson, I will toss this to you. Any thoughts on this matter? I agree. Because he is not proposing any windows on the addition. So clearly that's not the trigger. It is the existing condition that appears to be triggering the situation. And I would prefer to defer that to the state for their assessment through the VBRS. So this is a motion then for denial? I would make a motion for denial for the building code relief. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. So Mr. Troy, can you please go back to the request then to change the occupancy from a three to a four family? Yes, Madam Chair. Currently, it sits, it decides a two out two thousand zone with an existing three family. A lot size is one thousand five hundred and fifty sixty two square feet. The existing living area is three thousand four hundred and eighty three square feet. Currently there are, as you can see in the existing condition photo on the left, two levels first for a second floor and then a lower level basement unit. So the building comprises of three units. The proposed area total would be four thousand six hundred is fifty four square feet adding a third floor. And the existing FAR currently is two point two and we're going to propose for an FAR of two point five. In terms of the height, when the height, the height of the building is measured from the highest point of the grade, it is less than 35 feet. 32 feet or inches, measured from average grade. And the difference between this proposal and the earlier proposal was that we're not adding a backpack, but rather just a roof deck access from the third from the third floor unit, exclusive to the third floor. So we're having this, I'm sorry to interrupt. So this project was, this particular grass was before this board before? Yes, Madam, back in 2016. And how, and how is this project different from the one that was here in 2016? This project is adding the fourth level, if you will, or in this case it will be, we're calling at third floor. So according to this plan, the three levels are existing and we went, we went to the board of appeals to ask for relief to legalize the basement unit. And that was the case back in 2016, 2017. But here, the owner would like to add a third floor with a roof deck. And it's the evidence for that was the four story building to the west of this project across the street on Putham Street blocking his view. The owner currently lives on the second floor. We'd like to go up to the third floor and have a roof deck access. And is there still a living space proposed in the basement? The basement area would remain as, as is. And what, what is as is? It's an existing unit that's in the basement, Madam. Okay, and tell us the break and what's the size of that unit? Each unit is on average 1171 square feet. We're not breaking outside of the footprint of the site. And this is the existing unit with a three bedroom. And the windows that are egressable because of the slope of the site. And there's an egress, two means of egress, one of the living roomaries right out to Condor Street. And also tell us how parking is being accommodated? There's currently one off street parking. And that is the use by the owner of the building. And I'm not sure if I asked you this. Did you see that was there? So there is a roof deck. Is there a roof deck? Currently there is not a roof deck. But the owner would like to go and add a roof deck on top of the third floor so that he could have view out to Healthy Creek, which is currently being blocked by the building on Condor Street across the street from his building. And how would he access that roof deck? Through the, there will be a stair and using the stair in the back, this building has two means of egress currently. Okay. And I'm not, and I just neglected to ask you this, but what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? The floor to ceiling height is, I believe, it might it more than seven foot six inches. And that was legalized back in 2016. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. They do show, I mean the basement unit does take advantage of the great change from front to back. So the windows are adequate. Yeah. It'll be interesting. I think when he goes for the variants on the BBRS, because there are windows that are relying on adjacent property in bedrooms. So there could be some other issues associated with that as well. Okay. Any questions from the board? Yes. Is anybody here to speak and support the proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. We're familiar with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on the recording support for this proposal. We need to process the applicant workles with the abiders and address their concerns and this proposal receives support from Ego Thielsey Association. Thank you. Would I say new, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Chair and Foley, Councillor Sabi, George's Office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, Councillor Edwards is in support of this project as well, and we have one letter of opposition from an abiding neighbor. Is there a reason given for the opposition? Adding another floor. Okay. Chair, I do have a hand raised. Okay. Ma'am. Ma'am. You can support the opposition for this project, Kathy. Yes. This is Kathy. This has been Bill. Good morning, Madam Secretary. I'm just going to appeal to the developer to add a street tree at the city. I'm holding on, Miss Ma'am. Ma'am, can you please put your address on the record, too? Sure. I will. It's 65 Lewis Street in Boston. Now I'll put it in the chat. Are you in East Boston? I'm in East Boston, yes. Okay, go ahead. So you're requesting a street tree? Yes. Get the city allows it. There's plenty ample space on the front and the side of the building for at least one street tree, so I'd like to be able to ask the developer a commitment and a provisor to be able to include a street tree, at least a street one street tree in this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional raised hands. Give a lot of information. All that information may have a motion, please. Mr. Secretary, can I ask a question? In the opposition, what is the address of the opposition? It's Mr. Robertson, it's eight-hot number. It is eight-hot number, okay. That's the rear of the butter. That's correct. Okay. Thank you. A lot of us. I make a motion to approve with BPVA design review and with a particular focus on landscape. And please. I'll second that. Okay, hold on. Can we also request no buildings code relief? We already did. We already did because we denied. I know we denied it, but I just wanted to be put in the formal record for this project. Okay. Okay. Is that okay? Is there a second? Second. Well, can I ask the clarification? So if the BBRS does weigh in and approves, they will grant relief. So there will be relief granted through the BBRS, which is what we're recommending. So that they're we relief. But. Okay, I get it. Yes. Okay, you're right. So it would be approval with design review for landscaping. Is there a second? So you all think I can motion. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Following an ex case calling BLA 116 111 4 116 London Street. This is a change of art from two-fail me dwelling office to a four-fail me dwelling. Also to erect a fourth-story addition onto an existing building and renovate. Constructing new exterior e-grass stairs by links and article 25 section 5. This is in the floodhead flood hazard district article 27 T-5 East Boston iPod article 53 section 8. A multi-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 53 section 9, the Laudier tradition dwelling units is sufficient. Article 53 section 9, the Floyd area issue is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the building height number of stories is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the usual open space is insufficient. Article 53 section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Article 53 section 52, the restructure restriction. And Article 53 section 56, Austria-Pi-E is insufficient. Name and address, fuller, complete. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board attorney, Jeff Drego, with Drego and Tuscano, the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of the applicant Thomas Walsh, and I also have Adam Glassman as the architect and record. The proposal, as was mentioned, is to change the occupancy from a two-family and an office on the first floor to a four-family residential dwelling. Just to point out that had before my client purchased it, it had been used as residential just was never properly changed. We are also proposing to erect a fourth-story addition. And as you can see in that picture, if you go one up, well, it matches the buildings all along the right in height. If we go up one more, that shows the existing condition, members of the board, and this shows the infill. What it does not show is the rear going to completely renovate the exterior and interior of the building. This particular zoning sub-issue is 3,000. Our lot size is 1,800 square feet. As we go through the floor plans, the basement, it isn't a flood district. We are not proposing anything in the basement, no livable space. It will be used for storage, utility, and mechanical space. First floor would house unit one, and that is a two-bedroom, two-bath at a 1,070 square feet. Second floor would house unit two, three-bedroom, two-bed at a 1,028 square feet. That is a pre-existing unit. And then as we go up to the third and the fourth floor, those would be duplexed units. Both of them at 1,120 square feet. Those are both two-bedroom, two-bath. As was mentioned, the violations. This is a 3F district proposing four units. We are matching the buildings to the right of us. Additional lot area, we have 800. So we are under the 1,000 square feet requirement per unit. Our FAR, we're proposing 2.55, that is a pre-existing violation. Our height, 35 feet is what's allowed at 44 feet. And in stories 4 and 3 is what's allowed. We're not changing the contours of the building. We're not taking it down or raising it. So our open space remains at 493 square feet total and 300 square feet per dwelling is required. Our rear yard is pre-existing. So that's all. Hold on a second. Is there anything proposed for the roof? No, madam chair. It's a roof restriction violation because of the new unit on top. Okay, and I'm assuming that all the utilities will be safely protected in the, because this is a flood, how's the district? Yes, ma'am. Where are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are getting. Any questions from the boy? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, madam. I'm from members of the board. I'm in the middle of the mayor's office of the mobile service. We would like to welcome the record support for this proposal. During the abarters, moving to the office of the include services on September 22, 2020, the applicant addressed the concerns of the abarters. And this proposal received support from the Avery Centre and the neighborhood association with the provider of Adidas Street Street 3. Any abarter property. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, madam chair. Members of the board, Karen Foley. Would like to go on a second. I would like to support council and East Coast Abbey Georgia's office. Thank you. Madam chair, secretary here, a councilor in which is in support. And we also have one support letter from the maverick square. Madam chair, I do have one raise hand, but it is from a previous person's spokesperson. So we're all second. Madam chair, Paul Sullivan, for the councilor, Michael Flaherty, councilor to go on reddit support. Thank you. Lena, I'm glad that all these applicants and the community is really pushing for those street trees because I did read that report about how about the issues facing East Austin and climate and climate spread of us. I just want you to guys to figure out how you want to get these street trees put in in these individual spots. And I just raised that with you because I think it's great, but there's also follow-up that needs to happen. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion approval of BPDA design review. Sarah, sir. All votes are speaker. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Madam chair, the next case, I'm going to recuse myself, but I'm going to call it in for the record. Finally, next case, calling BLA 116451444 West 7th Street. This is a 6,000 square foot pre-engineered single-story storage building to be used by the Boston Housing Authority for DHA Central Stores Facility. The Violation Duticle 8 section 4, the Ben-New Storage Builders have been used at an H1 sub-district. Madam chair, I am stepping away. Thank you. Is there anybody here representing the project? Yes, my name is John Harding with the Community Builders. Dana Dilworth representing the Boston Housing Authority is also here, but he has been having trouble getting onto the WebEx platform. This is a storage building we are partnering with the Boston Housing Authority to work on this. It is a replacement storage building of another existing storage building that's at 1, 2, 5 Aemory Street and Jamaica Plane currently. This transition allows us to open up 1, 2, 5 Aemory. A traditional element that I believe went before the board back in 2018. We have worked with the local Boston Housing Authority project that is surrounding this area. And I've done a letter of support from their tenant Asports. And now I'm going to hand it off to our project architect, Kendra Hallewall from Icon. Kendra, are you there? Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Great, great. Okay, so thank you for driving through the drawings. I really appreciate this. This is an exciting project. It's been underway for a long time. As Strongman sent this is a partnership between the Boston Housing Authority and the community builders. So this storage building is being moved from 1, 25 Aemory Street to 45 West Substrate. Is this expected to be a temporary move? Is this temporary storage or is it considered to be permanent storage? No, ma'am. This is permanent storage for the Boston Housing Authority has used the warehouse building at 1, 25 Aemory Street for many years as their sort of central storage to take care of all the properties across the city. And by relocating it, then we are able to create the land area to build up to 350 new units. Yes, we know. We know. Yes, I'm sorry to interrupt, but can you talk about this specific location then? And tell us how it fits into this environment. What's being lost? Is it open space? Is it parking? What's being lost? Yeah, that's a great question. So we looked at a number of sites and Dana, Dana and the team, we all looked at a number of sites around the city. We settled on this one for a few reasons. It is on West Substrate. There will be, there's an easy in and out for that. It's on the perimeter of the residential West Broadway VHA site. It's currently a parking lot. I don't remember how many parking spaces there are not too many. And there has been a lot of analysis. Oh, there you are, Dana. Great. You said. Great. Dana, do you want to talk about why we chose this site further? What I'm interested in is that a plundered loss of parking spaces? Or are they being accommodated elsewhere on site? They are being accommodated elsewhere on site. Thanks. That's right. The VHA, the survey of all the parking spaces in the area, as well as check on the permits issued by the VHA. And right now the VHA has issued 278 parking permits. And we counted 333 spaces within the development and the periphery. And turning the, yeah, do you have a ring of what this looks like? We do. It's on that first page. But it is a simple building. We are talking about perhaps engaging the community there we are in order to design a mural to go on the building. We have met with the local tenant organization and the residents of the VHA property and they're in support of this. I believe we have a letter in support. Okay. So hold on. So this, I, all I wanted to be sure was it wasn't one of those trailers that ended up permanently scarring the site. So it's not. So how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? No, the plans are good. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? I'm Adam G. Members of the Board, Healey Dillon, the Air's Office Newburts Services, like to come back and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam of the Chair Members of the Board and I call it on from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair, Members of the Board, Paul Solven, for City Council, large Michael Flare, the Council to go on recording support. Madam Chair, Members of the Board, Karen Foley, Councillor Saby, George's office. Would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to support Mr. Hampton. You're recommending not a provider, but you can even propose it. It's just gone through another form of review. No, it's just a simple storage area, Mr. Robinson, so we didn't feel that it was necessary, especially with a B&B check. I'm good with it. I just want to make sure I make a motion to support. All those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the OA 104-6789-9-U1 Street. Let's direct a new for unit presidential dwelling and propose for Ostrie Packing. The Violet's not equal 10 section 1. Ostrie Packing should not be located less than 5 feet from the side lot line. Article 60 section 40. Ostrie Packing and the load and requirement. Article 60 section 8. Multi-fueling dwelling uses for a bit. Article 60 section 9. Additional live areas insufficient. Article 60 section 9. The flier ratio is excessive. Article 66 section 9. The front yard is insufficient. They have an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair. Timothy Fraser. Box five. Willing to mass for the applicant. Eric Qens. So Mr. Fraser, tell us what's being proposed. And I noticed that one of the violations is parking in the front yard. So please tell us what's being proposed. Tell us the size of the units and then walk through the violations, including the front yard parking. Yes, Madam Chair. So what's being proposed is the construction of four residential condominium units. Each will have parking. So there's a the one-to-one parking ratio is being achieved, but that is triggering the violation of the fruit yard parking spot. One of the spots is just slightly in the front yard, which triggers that that violation as well as the second violation for the off-street parking. So the first two violations are both related to that one parking space. It allows us to achieve that one-to-one ratio. The other violations are truly dimensional, primarily to keep the streetscape and the character of the homes and as well as the floor area ratio that allows us to keep the density, keep the project feasible until at least four home ownership opportunities. And this one has the specific dimensions of each unit. I can give you the roughly, but David freed from after two and associates is on the line that David could give more specifics on the actual dimensions. And how is it stalling at some sort? Okay, sorry, go ahead. And then David, can you also give us the unit breakdown and the square foot foot foot foot in the meantime? I said, what can you show us a rendering of this proposal? Go ahead, David. Yes, my name is David Fried and I'm with an architect and student company. All four units are two bedroom, two and a half bath, and they also have a home office. The units are all 1,436 feet each. And they're all two complex units. So the ground level units are the first floor and the basement operating units are the second floor and the third floor. Okay, and tell us about the parking. So the parking, we really wanted to provide a 10 foot side yard setback on the left side. Jason, to be the home at, I'm sorry, I forget the number, but maybe it's number 15 humans. On the right side, what is directly, a buddy in our property is a garage. This is a lot line condition. So we made a design decision to provide a compliance side yard setback on one side, but yet have the parking violation on the right side because of that garage that was separating our parking from the house that abudts Columbia Road. Okay, and is there any resident, any, um, keep and see proposed for the basement? Yes, the, the basement's going to be living space. The, the bedrooms for units 1 and 2 are located in the basement. We provided, um, window wells and we provided sufficient windows so that the front bedrooms have 12% light, which exceeds 8% and the back bedrooms have 18.6% light, which exceeds the 8% and um, what's the, uh, just the height from the floor to the cell? Well, the fact that the floor to the cell is, um, it's three feet. Three feet. So this is new construction, right? Yes. Okay, so I'll just put it on the record that we are not, you know, not excited about, um, promoting or approving living space in the basement on new construction. So I'll just put that out there in the meantime. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Uh, the plans are adequate, um, what you refer to is the case, um, you know, unfortunately, it looks like the site is flat. So these all four bedrooms are well below grade in terms of their relationship to the exact, adjacent grade. Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, just hold on. Madam Chair secretary here, Mr. Dimeco has spoken this as well, like, to put it into the record? is not a problem. Is it a problem? Yes, go ahead. And it got to nine U.S. Street B TD cannot approve front yet. Okay. Any questions from the board? Well, I think we've covered we have two issues here. We got the entire basement is below great. And you've got. Only three three spaces, and we'll have to go to the next slide. Okay. So, the question becomes. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support on this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Joe Copp and Joe with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support of this proposal as they've received support from four media butters as well as the. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mary Eileen and Brimsley partnership neighborhood association throughout their community process. Thank you. Madam chamber was the board Justin Gardner behalf city councilor Andre a camels office. We'd also like to go on record and support echoing those comments of the mayor's office. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Madam chair, I have no additional hands. Okay. So Mr. Frazier, we have two issues. So just to let to to be enforced at. Vacements are not a big deal for us and are a big deal for us. In the basement and obviously the parking doesn't work. So given that information may have a motion, please. I'd like to make I'd like to make a motion to deny without prejudice and dig in. I redesigned the project that I inform you with the standards. We uphold. Is there a second? Second. I'll second it most all those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. I will see you again, Mr. Frazier and. And the two team. Roger. Next. Calling an X case. Calling the OA 11609371 Westinghouse Plaza. This is to renovate building effort to site to include a recreational fitness facility, boss sports facility, include indoor basketball courts and tennis courts. The violation of Article 69 Section 29. The street parking will go in the project as insufficient parking and loading. Damon address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is JD Barry from the law office. The John D Barry located 400 granite ab in built in Massachusetts. With me on the project today is architect Eric run again. His office had just 39 concrete road in Wail and mass. And the civil engineer that worked on the parking plan is Brian McCarthy from R.J. O'Connell and associates at 80 Montville. And the owner of the bus. And the owner of the bus. And the owner of the bus. And the owner of the bus. And the owner of the bus. And the owner of the bus. And the. And the. Tenant. DJ bossy of bossy sports. What I'd like to just clarify is this is not going to be a regular gym. This is going to be a training facility with three basketball courts and three turf fields. It's going to be located at one Westinghouse Plaza in high park, which is a industrial park. So just to enter served terra�� I'm going to take a private shelter. It is a zoning sub district that is Metroid to. And the relief that we are looking for from the Orts day is related to parking. So if possible, whoever's in control of the 7S was provided. The parking plan may be the best. So let's just ask you, what does a track. What does a training facility mean? So I know who are you potential clients? What it means by a training facility is this is not an open gym that members can just come and go as they choose. Basically teams will be ranking floor space on a per hour basis and utilizing the space as a team. The ideal participants or users of the facility will be youths. The peak hours for the facility are between 4 and 8 p.m. when students get out of school. About half of the users of the gym are drop-offs by parents who will drop the children off. Let them practice whether it's basketball or some kind of a turf sport and come back and pick them up after the hour of the court time is over or the turf field. And what was this space used for before? Before it was basically all of one Westinghouse Plaza was a heavy industrial park. So I actually don't know what this particular building was used for. I believe it was used for some form of engineering manufacturing. I know where the parking has been created behind the building was a site where a lot of items were just placed by the manufacturers and the company sion came in and as they were developing the shell of this building. They cleaned up all the space behind the building and that created roughly 109 additional parking spots that have been permitted. Mr. Bossy will have sole possession of half of those parking spots in the rear and half in the front. So he will have a total. The zoning code would require 244 parking spots at four parking spots per 1000 square feet of space. What Mr. Bossy has sole possession of his 98 parking spots. 13 of those are tandem spots but the plan is to have those utilized by employees and coaches and have use or parents parking behind them. And how many staff do you anticipate at peak hour? Somewhere between one and three throughout the hours of operation. So at peak hours would probably be roughly about three staff members. And how many students? I think at peak we anticipate about 180 users of the space and that's mainly because in that can vary dramatically. It could be as low as 90. This is kind of an average. Mr. Bossy has run facilities like this for 30 years and other areas of the state. Okay. Okay. So use and summer programs I expect. Yes. So one of the letters of support actually is from the school, the Pacific Rim which is actually located at the front of one Westinghouse Plaza. It's not within the industrial park but I think they they school itself. It's a charter school used one of the buildings and Dom Bay are working with Mr. Bossy potentially be using this space. So this would be used potentially as a gym during the day for Pacific Rim or potentially yes if they were if they were interested in renting space for their students they are interested I should say there's no agreement yet. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. Any questions from the board? Is it a quick I just had a quick question. I believe Bossy sports just closed their frame behind me have facility due to the pandemic. What makes this one any different of happening in high back? Mr. Bossy's on the call he might be best to address that. I'm not aware of them closing related to the pandemic. I believe they were closing with this venture in mind. Okay. And I know related to the pandemic just for the board's information right now other than those using the facility no one else is allowed into the facility so parents and others are not allowed to come in and I did actually participate in the call yesterday with our adjournment of Consolvo. No no it's all okay. That's okay. You wanted to talk about it. We know the pandemic will come and go in the meantime let's look at this as a long term investment. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board Danielle Fonseca with the Bears Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office would like to go on record and support of this proposal. We would love to see more opportunities for use engagement in high park. There was a community meeting that was held on March 17th. We're concerns were addressed around the access to a parking lot via one of the gates that's disruptive to residential butters at the loss and on Reveal Street but the applicants have agreed to work with neighbors on this matter and we would like to see them fulfill that commitment. At this time we have no further comments or questions. Thank you. Madam Chair I don't have any additional raised hands. Madam Chair Secretary here we do have school letters of support. Okay may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to support. Sorry to approve. Sorry to approve. All those in favor? Sorry. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second look. Thank you Madam Chair and Members of the board. Calling the next case. Calling DOA 116 4916 8 Libby Street. This is a direct A1 family home and a vacant lot to include a driveway suitable for minimum loss, repeat pocket. The violation of Article 10 Section 1. The limitation of area of accessory uses. Article 56 Section 8. Not a lot of areas in sufficient. Article 56 Section 8. Lot with this insufficient. Article 56 Section 8. Lot front a lot frontages in sufficient. Article 56 Section 8. Floodier ratio is accepted. The Article 56 Section 8 side yard is in sufficient. They would address further directly please. Good morning Madam Chair Members of the board. My name is Kevin Cloutier from the Cloutier Law firm located at 1990s center street in West Rockbury and I'm joined on a call today by project the property owners Dennis and Josephine Sullivan and I'd ask considering that this board's decision will have an immense impact on the Sullivan family. I'd like to briefly turn it over to them so that they can. No right now I need whoever it is but the name and address on the record tell us what's proposed. I look like a one family. It looks like a lot of the violations are because of the lot size so we need to just understand the square footage of the home and how the driveway is proposed to work. That is all I want the focus to me. Thank you Madam Chair and I just want to point out I I did submit a packet that included a number of photos that was confirmed to be part of the record I expected to be able to brief off of that presentation this morning versus just the plans I don't know if Ms. Thomas has that in her possession. I think it may add to the board's ability to properly consider this. So can you just continue just talk us through what's being proposed. Yes so the Sullivan family currently resides at 11 Libby Street a own a vacant lot at 8 Libby Street which is the only vacant lot on that street. They are proposing a single family home that's a two-story dormant style cape and if I can provide just very briefly historical context we did. All I need to know is what's the square footage for this proposed building. The this proposed building is 2393 square feet. Is there any any proposed residents living space in the basement? No there is not. Okay and then if looks like the access is through the driveway on the left hand side for two tandem spaces because I see a lot area instead tell us about your FAR what is required and what are you proposing. The required FAR is 0.4 we have 0.56 floor area ratio. Okay okay how are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board Jack Duggan mayors office of the neighborhood services just like to go in our support. The applicants of complete a full community process. The plans did come before the board back in 2019. They have scaled back you know taking concerns from the neighbors from those initial plans then they went before the West Rukshanevary Council last week on April 27th and received their full support seven votes to zero. Ten of the 12 neighbors on Libby Street do support this. There are some directive butters that do have concerns next door with the other one on the other side being fully supportive so I do ask that if this were approved that it had BPA designer view in addition there's 20 plus letters of support that I submitted to the zoning board for bills. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board this is Peter Favirido from City Councilor Madden. Malley's office the councilor would also like to go on our support. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board Karen Foley Councilor Savi George's office and would like to go on our recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair secretary here we do have letters of support. We also have letters of opposition. And Madam Chair I have several raised hands here I believe more than nine. I just let you know I did like me to go. I'm going to ask is there anybody on the phone Miss Ambassador? Yes there's two people on the phone. I'd like to hear from both people on the phone and three others. All right Collar 20 to user 22. Collar 617 327 you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address please? Yes good morning this is Kristen Walsh a neighbor on six at six Keats Street just offering my support for this project. Thank you. And Collar using 24 617 257 you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address? Yes good morning members of the board. My name is Peter Ryan I live at 47 children road in West Rockbury just want to call for the support of the new home at 8 Levy it's the right home for this side of the line. Excuse me is children in a butter? No not in a butter close by. Okay thank you thank you. Okay and Grace and Mark you've been unmuted. State your name and address please. Mark 6 in Levy Street and and Grace also our talk president Grace will follow that lot is too small to build. The street is too small to add a new house and more cars. Then it is currently using my next door neighbor's driveway and that house currently has no cars but in the future it will have cars. Too many people from our neighborhood would have a didn't all have a chance to talk because so many other people from outside keep talking in our zone meeting. Then it's called the police to our home to harass us after the zone meeting. He lied to the police saying we went to his house to shout we did not. Grace would speak now. So we just want to register our strong opposition of having a home in 8 Levy Street. The lot is only 4200 square feet and he wants to build a home that's 2400 square feet. It's a mansion for that small lot. So for the past many years then it's led the home neighborhood to oppose the previous two developers. Now he bought a lot in 2016 and he became the developer. He want to build himself. So I feel it's moderately round to ask only to help him drive away all other developers and then he becomes the developer. We do remember this case. Mark Fortune Mark Olic. The three of us were on when this case first came. I remember the the intensity of it. Okay Mr. Ambassador thank you. I'm there here from three other people. Okay Joseph Derby you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address? Yes my name is Joseph Derby. I live on six all bright street. It's the walk over from a living street. I just wanted to say that I'm at the post work. My lot is only 56 square feet bigger than what they proposed to build on. And I do not have a driveway and parking is not an issue on my street. It's pretty much the same as living street. So I just want to stand in full support. And I think it's possible. Okay now hold on. Can I have everybody put their hands down? And only people who live on living street raise their hands please. Please everybody put your hands down. And if you call them and you can press star three and that will lower your hand. All right. Can I go to the other names? Okay so I just need confirmation that everybody who has their hands raised or who's on the phone lives on living street. It's all right. This is your chair. It's lower your hands if you do not live on living. Okay. Miss Ambassador can we go through that list please? Janine Del Devlin. You've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address please? Hi my name is Janine Devlin. I live at four delivery street as you face the lot I'm on the left hand side. I have consistently opposed building on this lot as my mother has before me. This is the third time we've been involved in somebody I've been involved in somebody wanting to build here. I believe there's been two other attempts before. The lot is only 4200 square feet. The building code is 6,000 square feet. The lot is much too small to build on. And River and I have offered to buy the lot and split it in half to relieve Mr. Sullivan. We do not get any answer. This neighborhood if being made to suffer. And by restricting this to only living street you are eliminating but butters on the left hand side and behind the lot. You know what I want to say is that you know we always have a hard time one family. One family is being proposed and one family in the house. So thank you for your comments. May I have somebody else? Okay O'Brien Marion you've been on Utica. You've station A and address? 12 the B street was rock 3. And go ahead. Okay and I'm the main butter to the lot next door. And the house will be built closer to my house than to the other house on the property. And this lot begins with a dump. It is just beautiful now. I love the design of the Sullivan which moves on. It is similar to my home. Thank you. We have and we have identical lots and I have plenty of space on my lot. I have two structures shared in a screen house and still plenty of space. I support the Sullivan's new home. I hope you learn. Thank you. Thank you so much. And then James you've been on Utica. Can you station A and address please? Are you talking James Kennedy? Yes I just think we have the first thing. Okay. My we live on Vermont Street but our backyard is on the B street. My driveway exits onto the B street. We have had no problems whatsoever with any kind of parking, traffic or anything like that. And we are 100% in support of a house going at 8 Libby Street. Thank you. Thanks. And I do believe that is everybody. I just want to make sure Mr. Bastard that we get anybody who's on the phone. Yep I believe we got everyone here with their hand raised. Madam Chair, if I may, sorry would you please allow Mr. Sullivan the property owner to speak briefly about this matter. Maybe and sort of point out some of the issues that were raised. No, I mean that's why you're here who've been hired by them to represent them. I have a PhD. So it looks like, Madam Chair, I would like to speak please. The combination of in support or in opposition. So it looks like it's a combination. Given this information may I have a motion please? I'd like to make a motion to approve a PPA design review. Is there a motion? All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you Madam Chair. I give members the words. Calling your next case. Calling B-O-A-921-789-175 Maple Street. This is to renovate an existing single family dwelling. Perform exterior interior renovations. The first exact existing first story. Including a covered front porch and a covered side rear porch. Remove the existing attic to replace with a second story of habitable living space and a new attic for storage. The biolite the removal of pre-existing non-permitted work that resulted in an habitable living space in the basement. The biolite is Article 36 Section 8. The fluidity of H.O. is accessible. The Article 56 Section 8 to front yard setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record flakes. Good afternoon. Now Madam Chair, I'm member of the Board. My name is Kevin Cloutier from the Cloutier law firm located at 1990 Centresre and West Roxbury. I'm joined on the call by the property owners Colleen and Renzo Monzone as well as the project Architect Gregory Pando. And again, I would just, if you're Madam Chair would allow, I provided a slide deck that I had confirmation would be presented to the board that has pictures that I think really knows. Can you please, Jill? Okay. What we need to do is look at these elevations and understand the product. So can you please talk us through what's being proposed? Well, thank you. I actually see the slide deck there that out. Thank you very much. I would ask once again to respectfully with the board allow Mr. Monzone the opportunity who owns this property who hopes to raise his family here to speak very briefly as to why this is. Can you please talk through what's being proposed? Certainly. I have my client Renzo and Colleen Monzone owned this home at 175 Maple Street along with their two young children. They seek to expand the size of that home to make it suitable for them to plant their roots and raise their family here. What we are proposing is to take that existing home, which as you can see in the current slide, it's a very small bungalow style single story home and we seek to add a second story of a living space as well as an attic. That would provide for a first floor to include a dining room, home office, kitchen, living room and bathroom, and a second floor to include three bedrooms and two bathrooms and a laundry with respect to the exterior and if we can see on it. So let me just ask you so ultimately the goal is to have this as a three bedroom unit. Will there be any occupancy in the base proposed basement? No, the basement will be storage Madam Chair. Okay and will it be on the current footprint of the building? Yes Madam Chair. So be on the current footprint. Okay. So your FAR is excessive, your front setback because the building is existing is so your front setback is insufficient. So tell us in the under the FAR what is what is required under zoning and what is being proposed? Certainly the zoning is for .4 FAR in this location. We are proposing .47 which I suggest is a small amount of relief being requested. With respect to the front setback we are including a covered porch is part of the design that setback would be 14 feet 8 inches where the modal on that side of Libby Street is 16 feet and with respect to the other zoning considerations the design was very mindful to adhere to the late Victorian style of this area and as the design shows in slide three it looks very good. It's suitable to raise a family and it's consistent with the existing fabric of that neighborhood. With respect to zoning I would simply like to point out the relief not being requested if we can remain on this slide. The relief not requested is very relevant to the points of opposition that you're likely to hear. First and foremost the height the building is 8 feet below the maximum height requirement. So it will not have any time is the height being proposed. 27 feet in a 35 foot zone. Okay. The side setbacks we are also compliant they're 10 feet we are 11.5 on the right and 14.3 on the left and I bring that to your attention because the butter is on either side do oppose this on issues regarding primary to light and air as they previously expressed. The lights suggest those issues are objectively moved because the zoning code can be. Okay hold on hold on so just I just need to put on the racket that the front yard setback is the two violations. Front yard setback is insufficient and the floor floor area ratio is excessive. This with and the family FAR that's required is 0.4 and the proposed is 0.47 and is this a one family zoning district? Yes it is single family 6,000 zone. One F6000 how large is the is the lot? The lot is 4,400 4,445 feet and from my visit on on Sunday it looks like all the lots there are comparable in size. Very much so a lot. Okay how are the plans Mr. Robinson? The planes are good. Any questions from the boy? Is anybody here to speak on this project? And support our opposition. I will ask for elected officials first either in support or in opposition. Good morning. I get out the new another Madam Chairman's the board Jack Doug and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Just like to go on record in opposition we have seen several letters of opposition including from some direct butters. I do want to be transparent though they can go before the West Rocks for Neighborhood Council back February and receive the support vote of five to two and have received 30 plus letters of opposition from both the butters and other folks in the neighborhood. However from immediate butters the FAR concern of it being excessive and being too dense is a reason for opposition. Thank you. Good afternoon. Jack just as I said before you know building a one family in a one family neighborhood for years has been the main of our existence here on the board because it does raise a lot of tempers and a lot of issues with a butters. So we recognize that. Can I hear from anybody because I guess first I'd like all hands to go down but just have people who live on the street at one on Maple Street but they hands up one bus for household please. Madam Chair Secretary here before we go there we do have letters of support and we do have letters of opposition and the opposition basically is density. Yeah. Madam Chair just to correct the record Mr. Dogin said 32 letters of opposition I believe him at 32. Can you please just relax okay. I know there's a lot writing on this as there's a lot writing on every project okay we're just going through our due diligence we'll come back to you okay thank you. Just make sure I'd like to have I because I just one person for household because I do see duplicate names in them in the in the race hands so I need one name for household and and only residents on Maple Street. Miss Ambassador if you see duplicate names for household just randomly randomly one person. All right Carrie Bertrand can you be in the meeting can you stay to name an address please. Hi my name is Carrie Bertrand I live at 171 Maple Street number two which is the upstairs apartment. I would I would like the board just for a minute to go back to the elected officials because I do believe we have some other elected officials who are. You have even you're going to use your chance to talk or not so. I apologize madam chair thank you to the board and Madam chair for reviewing our comprehensive letters and several letters from a butters who do not support this it's important to know that three of the four direct butters are not supporting this project. This proposal is not modest as Mr. Cludier suggests this is a very large house on a tiny lot. Renzel and Colleen have 1500 square feet right now not the 1056 that they claim they've benefited from having living space. I would suspect that you are in opposition and I would expect you all concerned since you are talking about square footage is the FAR or the equivalent of density. Yes and in the FAR that they're quoting a point four seven does not include the third floor which is a third floor. I have a full dormer seven windows my my children's bedrooms are on the second floor of our home they will lose all their light they will lose privacy. Thank you the things that they have. Thank you. All right in Mark Cohen you've been in need of can you use that your name and address please. Yes my name is Mark Cohen and I live at 177 Maple Street and I'm a direct butter. I have lived at that property for 20 years I've lived in West Rock Sparrow for 40 years I am a retired city worker worked for the Boston Police Department for 34 years. I raised my family in this neighborhood I have strong ties to neighborhood and to my neighbors. I am adamantly opposed today to this project based yet basically on FAR which we won't go into and to to the setback I have to say that it's very convenient of the attorney flowchak to not mention the third floor which we have been opposed to the height of this building because it cuts off the sunshine to our house and the idea of building this home with storage in the basement which is currently a basement apartment and a full attic which has dormers and high ceilings and was up in the first iteration vented for a bathroom. Mr. Cohen thank you so it sounds like your your question is density set back and height even though they are they are below the required required height but anyway the next bus and mr. Massard are making an amy-dick can you say triple name and adros? Good morning big minds are coming and I live next store as well and I really try to demonstrate in my rudimentary form the impact that this will have on our home it really does strike at the heart of why we bought our home in the first place and with all due respect to mr. Claudia this will directly block off world direct sun coming into our home I try to provide you so hold on make you also are at 177 and it was mark who we just heard from as I'm looking at the raised hands mark who and who is your husband okay sorry that's okay you're a problem Edward Zaro you've been unmuted can you say to name an address please yes thank you Edward Zaro 171 Maple Street apartment 2 okay okay wasn't that it was actually your your whether it was carry books by speaking on behalf of the department one we live in a multi-family home okay okay is there anything different from what Carrie butren said ultimately the idea that we just talked about it is not coming in at 27 but actually 33 feet tall with a FAR of almost 0.5 this is not a modest home it's a very large house on a very small lot okay okay hold on may I hear from mr. Zaro no that was that was there mr. Zaro that was talking that was mr. Zaro okay I do have a hand raised from Mark and you look here a leaky look okay can you hear me try not and yes I can hear you okay maybe okay go ahead can you say to name an address please yes I'm Mark Malikian I live at 176 Maple Street which is directly across the street from 175 I have no opposition to the to the plans and the build out my observation is that my my main observation goes to the light issues that are being opposed to my observation from living across the street is that very minimally will light be blocked on either to a buttern directly a but and I have no opposition to it thank you um anybody else I noticed Dave you're on did you want to go on the record uh yes madam chair members of the board council would like to go on record in opposition okay any other elected officials as you know you are you're you've generally given the courtesy of speaking first um any other elected officials good afternoon madam chair members of board Peter Favreino from city council or mat no malleys office the council would also like to go on record in opposition thank you madam chair I just want to go out correct if I did uh miss speak earlier it was um 30 plus letters of support that we received not um not oppositions just wanted to correct that if I did misspeak thank you thank you um so uh can I miss ambassador can you make sure everybody is muted I just want to have a conversation with mr. koo jay so you have heard what the opposition is based on um as you are have your clients thought about removing that third floor that attic because I live in rosendale I know a lot of people like those addicts because it allows for expansion space at some point but have you thought about eliminating that attic space so that in fact you have less of an impact uh uh lower roof at lower roof line etc to be able to actually have the living space you wanted without having the neighborhood impact that everybody is anticipating well we directly considered that can's primarily because we're eight feet below the high requirement so we didn't we don't see that as having an impact there is there is a um a zoning requirement but you have heard from your butters and you know the question is there will be storage space in the basement as it's proposed it is a three bedroom um with two stories and an attic and I think you are you and your clients your clients have to decide what it is that would work in this space in this lot in this neighborhood you know balance with the need for an expanded space and no living in the basement and we believe we've presented that that this project does represent that madam Sharon if the clients ever wanted to expand living space to the attic of course they would have to come before this board I notice all my neighbors do not but if there is concern about light and if there's concern about it uh about the impact if there is a way to be responsive and there's a way to not be responsive so it's really up to your clients this is as most of the lots are on that street undecised so um board members the you've heard the testimony you've heard the response from Mr. Cludier so may I have a motion please I'd like to make a motion to approve with BPA design I'll second that motion may I have a motion though to eliminate that attic just for clarification of the board um so I just want to just make sure but so currently the attic is shown at only a six foot ten inch height so it it can actually not be made in legal space it does have a side bomber which will affect a lot of that to happen yeah for the chair access current the chair of the area stands the height of that in here so I just want to make sure that there is no possibility of attic attic occupancy okay I'll put a I'll put a provide though in there that no living space being the attic okay and mr um mr. hampton you've heard this discussion um and please make sure that in fact whatever is done so that light and air is protected for the abutters all those in favor hi any opposed I'm gonna oppose who's opposed rigorous okay thank you motion carries thank you thank you members of the board conno last case calling BLA 116 3050 372 North Beacon Street this is a change of use parking lot to vehicle impound so a lot the violation of the 51 section 16 of parking lot use conditional the attic 51 section 53 the screening and buffer and proposed fence fence inviting in streets shall not be more than four feet an article 51 section 57.3 the traffic visibility across the corner proposed 10 foot security fence amen address for the record please good morning mr secretary madam chair steven mille mechner mechner mechner mechner 28 state street also on the phone and this would be the operator at the site gay bryella the strata from dng towing we're seeking approval to actually move of her existing operation which is at two emery road in Austin and the property is being redeveloped so she has to move currently dng towing has contracts with the city of Boston the Boston police department she does the towing for Austin Breighton in district 4 and 14 she also has contracts with the state police to do the towing mr councillor yes so can you jump right to what is is so what what is happening on this so this is a parking lot which is proposed to be a vehicle impounded lot what is the zoning district here so the zoning in this area it's a green belt zoning district this is a conditional use in that area and has been used currently on a temporary basis by the commonwealth of mass for construction vehicles on all the road working that's being done in that area so it's the request is for conditional use for the for the parking and then the there are two other issues which is is persons so i'm trying to get it i try to remember is person street what is the zoning district it's a cc1 it's a cc1 and this is okay and a who owns this parcel the the family is chakala that's on the parcel for a long time it's a it's in a trust but it's they go on that for a long time yeah i remember actually strangely now remember when some of that happened okay um so explain to us how many vehicles are being proposed um and what kind of respect are they offering the community as far as decent screening and buffering so the um revroposing 69 vehicles were required by our contracts uh three separate contracts to with the city we also do the towing for street cleaning um we're required to have at least 60 vehicles by our contracts were proposing 69 vehicles um we've as part of the um proposal the lighting would be uh dark sky compliant um the backup senses have been turned off and all the vehicles the ten's foot security fence will have a backfabric screening attached and and we've uh talked with the community about uh significant um plantings on the exterior we think that the smartest way to do and this is a great meltover way so this would be something to be pta review regardless but i know the board would would that provide a win anyway so green out green bell protection is only relevant if you're moving us and you know our 500 i don't know how many cubic yards of us and i'm not sure that's happening here so i'm not sure that this is going to work on okay well which we expect them that the board would put a uh bpda uh design review on this process anyway it's it's by the i-hop okay i got it correct um and is that billboard on this parcel or on a buddy if you're looking at this the billboards at the far and away from where the cars are parked the billboard is weighed down at the other side on the other side of the billboard oh yes it is yeah yes okay just where we know how fond you know how fond we are billboards i know it's your favorites just making sure come back here i just wanted to make sure we get out of the wreck it uh bob de meco is spoke on this one yeah it might help clarify a few things and regards to 372 of a fee constraint all 69 spaces are seven feet by 18 feet btd requires at least half of those spaces measured eight feet by 20 feet also maneuverability is very poor and finally any corner above visibility across the corner can be worked out with the help of the btd okay so it sounds like okay so it sounds like 69 from this perspective is not feasible okay in response um to this is what you've submitted 69 spaces uh corner to corner okay uh how are the plans mr. Robinson you see you've seen them that's that's what's there and one question is the applicant you have to be using the building uh eventually the applicant may will probably be using the building okay um we would i'm sorry madam chair no sorry go ahead would certainly work with mr. de meco to um try and work out the uh flow on on the property um and work with the bpda on the exterior buffering and plantings any questions from the board no okay is anybody here to speak and support of this yes madam chair members of the board corner newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services let's go on record support this proposal this is an opportunity to retain a displaced business and keep them in allston brighten that provides the service for the community we conducted a butters meeting on February 22nd uh in light of some some concerns from neighbors uh we know we do want to make sure that the applicant continues to work with the neighborhood to ensure that the property is clean and sightly and also we ask that they do their best to avoid the residential street of parsons and focus on moving their vehicles and other other streets that are more appropriate uh they did go on to the brighten allston improvement association and they received their support as well thank you thank you thank you good afternoon this is more of a crave from counselor brine staff it's the council would like to go on record as being an opposition to this project we're just concerned about the maneuverability of this site this um this intersection and this wider location is pretty dangerous for as it currently exists for pedestrians and cyclists uh this site is really difficult to locate unless you go down residential streets um it's also there's a bus stop located immediately in front of the site so we're concerned about that also in addition the dc-dars currently undertaking a feasibility study to totally realline this road and bring um much needed pedestrian and cyclist cycling improvements to the area and also reconstruct the pool that was um uh we can check the pool on this site so we're hoping that many more pedestrians will eventually be able to access the river using these intersections so um again this we're we're concerned about the use in this location thank you madam chair secretary here we have four letters of opposition the opposition they don't want to see another tool lot in the area i anabella is also on anabella community yourself madam chair anabella goes to the right and also improvement association we did vote to support the project um but we do have some concerns and uh did request that proper fencing is there but not a chain link fence uh with temporary covering uh they also spoke of it being eight feet and now today they did say it's ten feet um that is a very important corner and we would like it to be cleaned up so uh we don't want a chain link fence with just a covering we do want outside landscaping because it is a prominent corner there will be people walking to the pool once it's done i hop is coming up with a development uh that area is going to be cleaned up and uh it needs not to be an eyesore which it is right now uh by the current tenant that's there and uh so bpda design review and no to a chain link fence with a temporary fence come very that's not acceptable that's what's there now and it's fallen apart and it looks really bad can i just make a couple comments hold on this just see if there any more i'm sorry sorry madam chair it's just yes um we are not regrettated uh to a support with significant design review in terms of screening and buffering and you know we agree with Annabella and the BAA about the chain link fence and i think we can accommodate a better solution through design review another proviso that i might want to throw out is that could be a sunset clause on this that we do i know it's a total lot not commercial parking um but if we if the board wasn't client to add a sunset provision uh i know there is going to be work going on in that area in terms of DCR and the rebuilding of the pool that comes to faintings office uh but if we were to put say a three year uh sunset clause they come back to you to extend that use because you know it is such a visible location that might be uh that might help read my mind Jeff anybody else to speak um mr. ambassador yep yep there's a two hand raised um i'm not this mark um Kevin you've been unmuting can you say she name an artist please hi Kevin are you here to give to us a money to this project yes okay can you say she name an address please yes thank you uh fifth Kevin and Barry 50 a credit to road right Massachusetts uh but it's quick as i can hear i am a local resident i'm opposed to this uh strongly for the following business uh first uh this is a prominent location a current danger in terms of traffic this will add the danger a second access is derelicted i doubt the need is kind of possible not to use parse and stream which is already heavily congested certainly uh there is a client to dramatic root and carol uh Leo Birmingham Parkway which adjoins this property which will make more difficult to access this property uh next the pool has been mentioned uh this project will happen it will be to more pedestrian and cyclist access to the area and this use is totally contradictory to the green spacesheapses of approval and parking point for uh and lastly um as the counselors represent you've said there's a bus stop right in front of this location i use it often and it you really taught you about a dangerous fight and this uh use it's uh antithetical to improve the things that will happen elsewhere thank you very much okay um so given all that information may i have a motion please could i respond yes please make it quick i'll make it short uh the the lettuce of opposition that the secretary mentioned were another tele the one tele was on parse and street and they're they've lost their contracts with the city so they no longer exist um that we are moving from emery roads so it's not an additional um to a lot um the uh ability to have a something like this emery emery was a local industrial right and you were an allowed that this was an allowed use there and now you are moving to a place because of a proposed development and emery um to a place that is much more visible much more noticeable and has a greater impact on the community from the local industrial space you know that's correct i mean this is this is just um you know um somewhat backwards because these kind of things that's what the local industrial was designed to do was to accommodate these kinds of uses okay so um given my tirade um maybe have a motion please i'd like to make a motion to approve with bpda design review btd review and uh to the uh sunset clause for this applicant i'll set that motion was it a two year or three years i think two to get them started that way we make sure the screen and the bufferings nine and then at that point we want to make it longer we can and um is there a motion all those in there i'm opposed i'm opposed to i'm opposed but the motion carries because it has five positive votes may i have uh jeff can you make sure that the bpda that significant design review on screening and buffering no eight foot remember the zoning requirement is six feet because there was no request for eight foot fence so it's you know extreme amount of screening and buffering see if that um that uh cub cub can be shrunk so there's minimum impact on the street as possible okay jeff thank you so good luck you've been approved thank you madam chair i'm going to call the 1230 cases for any deferrals or withdrawals for 1230 yes two 54 power street well the record calling b o a 115 8608 254 power street aiman adress for the record please thank you madam chair members of the board attorney jeff drago with drago and sascano with an adress is 11b can street we are seeking a deferral um since our left hearing you made a number of changes it made some last minute changes uh based on feedback plans so mr. drago mr. drago is this your second request for deferral if it was granted this is our second and final madam chair okay just the heads up because that we want to make sure that this is not continuing to be a pattern because then we will start denying projects i understand madam so may i have a motion for deferral motion to defer is there a second all those in favor hi hi any opposed the date please i have a date of June 22nd at 12 30 thank you very much are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for our 1230 that's what i have one that's 19 dash 33 ashlands street for the record calling b o a 108 7157 19 to 33 ashland street aiman adress for the record please good afternoon madam chair members of the board mark the cast lacasla 75 arlington street in Boston and this was heard by the board on january 12 and the board deferred us based on the pendency of an article 85 application for demolition delay and upon the pendency of a petition to accord this property landmark status um article 85 demolition delay was actually imposed by the landmarks commission and we continue to work with landmarks commission on a substantial redesign which includes um saving the structure that was the subject of the prior petition to raise the property so miss little cast doesn't make sense for you to withdraw this and start the process if it's going to be a significant change no we've submitted revised plans to isd and we are seeking revised refusal letter based on the reconfiguration of the project which now includes saving the existing structure so we would respect your request a deferral on this matter so we can complete the design. may i have a motion please? madam chair before we make a motion mark how significant are these changes because if this is a different project then the one that we have reviewed you know we'd like to get we'd like to see it because we only get a recommendation on the same project so if it's significantly different and you're getting a new refusal letter from ISD to us this might be a new project. that's correct the plan the diameter feels the same way and has advised that this should be withdrawn and refiled as a new application. may i have a motion please? make a motion for denial without prejudice. all seconded. we're denied without prejudice. all those in favor? bye bye. any opposed motion carries? I understand. are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? madam chair we do have a case and a call to the record there with drawing case BLA 1155320760E's Broadway. i'm going to make a motion for denial without prejudice. welcome. welcome. all those in favor? hi. all those. any opposed? motion carries. going to call the first case. calling the next case can be available at 1110214543 unid-pog. there is a companion case from building code BLA110214643 unid-pog. this is a gut renovation of existing duplex condominium. the new private roof deck accessed by a stair and a hatch. two front existing donors will be attached existing a re-adulter will be in large. the violation dot equals 64, section 34, restricted room structure regulations removing the roof stairs, proposing a hatch and roof deck equals 238 with feet. this is for building code with the gutless agent and existing duplex condominium and the private deck. the violation at the 19th district 780 CMR 1011 steelways 1011.12.2 roof access shall be to 810th house. david adress for the record please. hello this is Tim Shan. i'm at nine wall street in Charlestown, mass. i'm the architect for the project. yes we're asking for a roof deck so that's we're here because of the chair. can you please um as is our usual procedure? yeah talk about the request for building code relief. yes okay um because this is a five-story building whenever you're over three stories it has to be a penthouse and you know no we know we won't get a penthouse so instead of doing the penthouse we have proposed a hatch you know a hatch on a plink um trying to know the boy prefers so that's that's the only building code issue. okay you know i'll make a motion to support the building code relief. second all those in favor? hi hi any opposed? motion carries. thank you very much. okay mr. Shan talk about the request. okay so what we're asking for is a 17 by 14 roof deck which um obviously is triggered zoning because of the restricted roof district. um you know our neighborhood process was done last fall and everything was fine we reduced some things on the project we're not connecting the dormers anymore we're not going to do a flood floor balcony to keep the neighbors downstairs happy so essentially all we're asking for was the roof deck and if you guys approved we'll still have to go through the south-town landmarks commission to get approved on the roof deck. okay so it's a 238 square foot roof deck how are the plans mr. Robinson? the plans are good. any questions from the board? is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? hi i ask your afternoon madam chair members of the board can appreciate your e-front-measured office of neighborhood services we would like to go on record and support of this proposal thank you. thank you. hi my i'm the chair members of the board and i call let-on from counselor flings office the counselor would like to go on recording support ways on neighbors and the union part leave a whole association who report and no issues thank you. we'd have to know madam chair members of the board Karen Foley counselor Nisa was happy George would like to go on record and support of this project thank you. i don't try i don't have any raised hands. may i have a motion please? motion to approve second. there are second all those in favor? hi. any opposed? motion carries. thank you everybody. calling the next case calling B O A 1 1 5 0 5 8 4 267 8 269 George S to street. this is directly new three-family townhouse style building the violation of article 23 section 1. Austria barking is insufficient. article 13 section 1. the lot of areas insufficient. article 13 section 1. the additional lot of areas insufficient. article 13 section 1. the lot of width is insufficient. article 13 section 1. the floor A ratio of excessive. article 13 section 1. the usable open space is insufficient. the article 13 section 1. the area out is insufficient. they may have just with the record please. madam chair. the board. i'm i'm paddock bjony with the business address of 160 federal street. that madam chair for the record i would like to just refuse myself. go ahead. go ahead. mr. mhoney. then chair members of the board decided was before you. a few months ago. it was denied without prejudice on the specific basis. on comments from mr. early regarding the standard metro unit sizes. specifically the unit size two and three were listed at approximately 500 square feet and just below 600 square feet. it was suggested during the presentation. that we can make that change. it mr early suggested that it was more appropriate to refile. and rather than make the change through design review. so you have seen this before and we did with this presentation we do intend to address the previous concern that came up in the board. but it will. you know recapture the zoning. yeah. appreciate it. so tell us what are the unit sizes then? the uh there is three units. it's a three family building. the one bedroom unit on the first floor, which is a by-level unit with uh window egress in a rear is 1000 square feet. the the other two units unit two and unit three are studios and they're floor through units and they are are four 87 square feet for the second floor and the top floor is 597 square feet. and um in addition if they latter part of the presentation we we show the building in context as well as a copy of the uh the initial B.P. or rather B.R.A. standard metro unit sizes which has been reaffirmed by michael kineso in recent years and then more recently by mat mart through the micro unit metropolacy. the building is essentially unchanged the height is 30 feet um the there is no side yard apartment here. we are seeking relief for rear yard. the rear yard requirement with shallow exception is 10 feet and we are seeking uh they have we have a five foot one rear yard which does match um the building continuity on the buildings right and left of this for this block. um so this um so what zoning district is this in? this is l1 this this zoning was created in 1964 and so so the zoning flow area is required is one in your proposing 3.3 okay? that's correct yes um okay how are the plans mr. Robinson? uh the plans are good i have one question for the council just so i can make sure i understand so in your section it does show that the site drops off to the rear um and you mentioned egress window but it's not they're not below grade they're just seem to be the sills are closer to grade is that correct? i'm trying to make sure we understand that's that that's accurate mr. Robinson in the front the the living space is essentially a closet are like a a big walking closet dressing area that is uh below grade and then in the rear part behind it is it is totally walk out access. okay the line slopes out to the rear. okay thank you. any other questions from the board? um so this is just a block a block of a building with three front doors is that what it looks like to me? that's right madam's you know so we the reason that we had the three front doors is through the community process there was a request to put the trash room in the front as opposed to the rear yard and the door furthest most to the left is for the trash room. additionally the unit one is access from the middle door and unit two or three are access from the right door. um also worth noting that we added a couple of mock windows on the side if when you're looking at the other elevation is that would be a building code violation uh so we are not seeking building code relief and those who are not real windows like as you can see on this side a two one those two windows are not correct windows they're just for aesthetics. okay um any other questions from the board? is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? i'm Adam chair members of the board healy dilland making his office neighbor services like to go make it in support this outfit which um very well with cameo the civic association again their support as well thank you. so after no marimo the chamber members of the war are on a calderon from consular flings office the consular would like to go on record in support due to the community process and work with neighbors in particular the indigenous co-regulatory association supported this project due to the team willingness to work with them on trash removal issues with the installation of trash compactors as well as safety and security issues with lighting and cameras consular fling would like to offer his support based on team adhering to this agreement with the neighbors and the civic group thank you. good afternoon madam chair members of the board can and following counsellor nesrissapi judy's office would like to go on record in support this project thank you. ma'am she removes the board Paul Sullivan for the council of archmical flaring concept to go on record in support. madam chair secretary here we just want to let her about position. hey given that given that information may have a motion please. motion to review design of you. seconded. all those in favor? hi. any opposed? motion carries. thank you all. on the next case calling Vona 105 131314 me in street just to seek into change octane one family and accessory out of studio and one cargo arrives to an office in the first floor extended to the portion of the basement space and two residential drawings also renovate the building included roof deck and create four parking spaces the violations article 55 section 19 it's two fairly residential use for bed news they may have an address for the director please. good afternoon madam chair members of the board turning Daniel Tosco on one stage to boss the mass I represent the owner of the property scontab me zone line and also the architect is underlying my bark as uh secretary just said this is simply a change of use of of the building it's an existing building the first floor is currently a one-on-conquerage which has actually been used as an office floor the owner of the premises always been used as an office once it just uh create that as a legal use which is an allowable use on the local industrial self district with this is in so it's an allowable use into the basement the basement the the office space is really just going to remain on the first floor it does extend into the basement but it's really mechanicals and storage is a bathroom down there and and really nothing else on the second floor is an art studio it's just really the the the crux of the change the opportunity we like to change to a residential unit it's a 994 square foot floor plan it's too bad from one bat so sufficient space for the residential unit like I said it's 994 square feet the third floor is an existing residential unit so there are no changes to the existing third floor residential unit which is a three-bedroom well over a thousand square feet of space what we are doing is adding a roof deck which will be the exclusive use of the third floor tenant and access to that roof deck will be by hatch only so there's really no change no changes to the the use of that it's always been in a residential unit we are adding the full parking spaces which will be on the left side of the property and to along the right side of the property to on the left side of the property madam chair so I'm happy to answer any questions but there's really interior renovations to the property and then we're going to add the parking spaces to meet the zoning co-requirement and what's the size of that that office the office space is a 1,05 square feet can you misside woods can you pull up the plan that shows the parking the best illustration would be maybe the third page I think on the well of the presentation that might be the best view of it and this is this is a local industrial zone it's a local industrial zone but everything surround us is is all residential so all our direct-to-botties are all residential even the direct-to-botties of the direct-to-botties are residential so it's really a reasonable use for the premises checking that out I think the residential is fine I'm just looking at the office and the fact that this plan proposes front yard parking I just I know it's an odd shaped block for a driver um you know I see what you're trying to do but is there no other I can suppose there's no other way of accommodating the parking on site that is correct madam shea we've looked at other ways of how we can get back in the back of it I think it's William Street there's really no way of getting to the back um so the only way to put this parking was to decide and right in front of us this in space but it's owned by boss of wire and sewer so we're not parking on that property so it's sufficient space for the parking which as you see is on the left side the property in two and we'll provide sufficient buffer and streaming to block the property next to less 16-minute street and also to the left and we're going to add some trees at least one tree so because I'm in a certain way this is looking for a change of occupancy from a one family an accessory art studio and one car garage to an office and two residential units correct madam jim if it if it had in fact functioned as a garage your problems would be solved well well and it was never utilized as a garage in front of the property it's really a pilot dirt that was the only way of getting up to the garage door since my client is on the properties never never used it as a garage always used it as his office so it was never utilized as a garage so really no intent to use it it's just really a pilot dirt to get up there to dirt mom and we really like to beautify the property the front of the property level it off pavid and and keep the garage door for aesthetics I think it looks very nice so let me just ask how are the plans mr robinson the plans are good any questions from the board so yeah i'm just trying to look looking at this plan is that all sidewalk between me and street and the cars so there is really it's really some dirt it's owned by the boss and wanted sewage and we have an easement and really all the properties along me and she on that side of me and she has an easement going on to their property so what we're going to do is we're going to re-sought it add some grass and repay that fund so we can we have an easement to access to our property and what is the depth what is it depth from the sidewalk to the where the where the car on the left is i'm trying to figure that that's stripped that how deep is that this strip here how deep it is if i can defer to michael baud who was actually on the call now it's the ambassador be so kind to allow them to unmute them i think that was the name i'm sorry michael baud v ard oh god okay yep all right thank you mr. ardinson do you know the answer to that i don't know the dimension but i did i know this site actually and if you look even down farther i mean people are parking in this so it's a pair it must be 20 feet at least of a bumper ardinson i mean i i mean in some ways that sort of makes the issue of front yard park can kind of move because if it's if it's roughly 20 feet deep and you've got some trees there and stuff then i mean front yard parking is usually when it's out of 10 feet off off the side the the curb cut this is really quite different mr. ardinson i agree with you and just in reviewing in terms of that i don't have an issue with the jump it's front yard by formal case but i think this case is a special condition yeah i'm gonna trade excellent um any other questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal yes good afternoon manan chair and members of the board my name is Lindsey santaana from the mayor's office of neighborhood services and the butter is in ring with held on august 28th 2021 the applicant has also received the support to make a plain neighborhood council so the mayor's office would like to go on our good news report thank you madam chair secretary here we have eight letters of opposition and anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition madam tried to have a page who has a hand raised page can you state your name and address please hi my name is pish sparks i live at 96 Berkeley road and i'm ministering committee member for the stony brick neighborhood association the local civic association are you able to hear me yes wonderful at our general membership meeting on february 8th 2021 the sna voted to oppose the variances requested by this applicant there have been i understand a couple of changes to the plans but there are some outstanding issues specifically the loss of artist use space it's currently zoned as an artist work only studio but that again hasn't pursued options to become better to use this space as an artist live work studio which we feel would be beneficial to the community of jp as well as the city of boston additionally the parking is a concern and the reason it's concerned is because historically this property has been misused misused there used to be green space and actually the the front yard was really beautiful but the applicant has been parking sometimes as many as six cars on the property at one time and all of that green space is now lost additionally and there is concerned about the loss of green space overall for the the residents of me and street a lot of this is triggered essentially by the change of use and we are in opposition thank you manchai i have no additional raised hands good afternoon madam chair members of the board just to mcclary from city councilor matt omalley's office the council would also like to go and record an opposition of this proposal for similar reasons that page stated but mainly due to the loss of the artist space does was this project before this ward in the past couple of years madam channel believe it was since mr. daveney has owned it i believe he's owned it from at least four to six years i don't believe it's come before this before it might have come in the past to change the third floor at one point the third floor unit to a residential unit but not since mr. daveney owned it no i'm just trying to think i think i might be confusing this one with a property further further on emery street right chairman i actually do think that this was brought up potentially a number of years ago and it was kind of a hard fought pushed by the the artist space okay because i haven't in my brain that it was i don't know why that it was an emery street but okay in the building is fully sprinkled and all the board is always concerned so okay anybody else any other raised hands given that information may i have a motion please like a motion to approve with bpda design review i'll then i'm not so fortunate how many letters and opposition did you say there were eight letters of opposition okay and then okay so may i have a motion please motion to approve a bpda design review is there a second i'll second that with it maybe we can also have special attention paid to the buffer and the greens of between the street and the building and the parking yep all those and is there so you seconded all those i guess with my hand please yeah all those in favor hi hi any opposed motion carries um councillor yes thank you you know i know you're you're you're temporarily but it just really um sounds like your the applicant has a lot of work to do in the neighborhood so just make sure that you're not uh tied with this um but that the applicant does something absolutely maim chair thank you members of the board thank you for your time only next week on b o a one one five six five five one eighteen to twenty six Bradshaw street the surrect three story five unit townhouse building with parking below the violation dotto 60 section eight a multi-family dwelling into the bit atical 60 section nine the laudier of traditional dwelling units is insufficient atical 60 section nine the flirty ratio is excessive atical 60 section nine the usable open space is insufficient atical 60 section nine the side yard is insufficient at article 60 section nine the ray out is insufficient amen add just for the record please good afternoon maim chair members of the board my name is George Moranthi i'm an attorney with the business address of three fifty west broadway it's self-boggton uh man i'm chair my client is Brian Anderson this matter was deferred uh in order to allow for revised four unit plans to be reviewed and approved by the inspectional services department these are the plans that are currently uh being viewed on screen the this is an application for a new three story four unit townhouse style building at eighteen to twenty six Bradshaw street at the corner of gleeston street the applicable zoning is a three f five thousand residential sub district a lot in question is six thousand two hundred sixty seven square feet the four units would be on average thirteen hundred forty square foot two bedroom units there's no basement in the building and no roof decks are proposed each unit would have a seven by four foot second story rear balcony each unit would also have its own single car garage the parking would be accessed by a new ten foot curb cut to be located on gleeston street the required variances for the four family use and uh the the required variances are for the four family use in a three family district the lot size is cited as insufficient based on calculation that seven five hundred square feet would be required to four units while the law to six thousand two hundred sixty seven square feet the maximum f a hour to the code is point eight while the proposed f a hour is one usable open space is required at six hundred square feet per unit while just about five hundred ten square feet per unit would be provided ten foot side yard setbacks are required uh but the prevailing side yard setbacks here average uh about fifteen feet so that's a violation that it's effectively been removed uh there is uh so council the required the parking requirement is one per dwelling unit that's correct it's uh one one one per dwelling unit in this district um and if the units required to be handicapped accessible uh well they they they are there is living space in the uh in the ground i'm sorry uh if we scroll back i think on the first floor plan there is there is direct access there in the units from from the garage is there's a each one has living space in the fit and office space in the front okay so what if somebody wanted to need their office and for example go to the kitchen um i i'd maybe for i don't know if mr robinson can comment i don't know i think i will uh council i think there will be the need for uh to provide accessibility in one of the units one units we have to have a limited use limited uh i think i think i think in reviewing i mean you do have the room to manage that i think in this proposal if you have it is required i think yeah yeah the office i think i think yeah correct i think the office space would need to be replaced by a lift um you know before a building firm it could be issued uh that's a good point okay um hold on um how are the plans mr robinson the plans are are fine except for that one issue thank you for picking that up no problem any questions from the board is anybody wants hold on hold on mr. maran please anybody here to speak in support of this proposal is anybody here to speak at all on this proposal good afternoon madam chair members of the board Joe cop and your with the mayor's office and neighborhood services we'd like to go and record an opposition to this proposal as uh the neighbors of share their concerns around this proposal being too large too dense and the townhouse being not uh with the aesthetic of the neighborhood thank you after you met up chair members of the board of destined gardener perhaps city councilor andria cambell we'd also like to go and record an opposition echoing the comments of the mayor's office madam chair secretary here we have three letters uh signature pages of opposition and three letters of opposition and i'm trying to have no raised hands okay mr. maran see thank you so if i make just on the zoning as i said the side yard setbacks have effectively been eliminated the violations uh those setbacks are averaging about 15 feet on each side where 10 feet is required um also the required rear yard setback this is the shallow lot the required rear yard setback here is actually 15 feet and the proposed rear yard setback here exceeds this at uh just over 18 feet uh in terms of density uh as i say this is a uh uh uh uh 6700 square foot a lot which is obviously much larger than um you know a three f five thousand square foot lot one additional unit uh in terms of what's in the neighborhood there's a multi-family residential located directly next door uh the the brick building a 57 bricknell also across the street of 27 Bradshaw street that is a four family dwelling um that'll i'll i'll i'll cause and take any questions the members may have so mr. mr. maran see then to summarize the uses forbidden a locked area for additional dwelling unit insufficient still stands f a r is excessive still stands and insufficient usable open space still stands however you've eliminated both the side and the rear yard insufficiency correct in the maximum f ares point eight where at one and usable open space is required at 600 square 600 square feet per unit and we're at five hundred ten square feet per unit okay um so the required and proposed to give that information may i have a motion i'm going to make a motion to the line i'm going to second and motion all those um um um all those in favor die any opposed i opposed i'm opposed i i too am opposed so the motion doesn't carry um may i have another motion i'll make a motion to approve a bpda design review call second i motion all those in favor i i i any opposed both both both the two oppositions motion carries um cr approved with the provisor approval with design review thank you calling you next case calling b o a one one three sterile three six two 59 shelman straight this is a demolition existence single-failing home and garage given by a severe fire in 2018 project the new project will keep an existing garage location existing curve cuts violation article 56 section 40.1 conforming and existing building alignment article 56 section eight live with this insufficient article 56 section eight live frontages insufficient article 56 section eight deployer issues extractive and article 56 section eight the rear yard is insufficient payment address for the wreck it please good afternoon madam chair and members of the board this is Pamela party here in regards to 59 tell ministry in westrocksbury so we remember when you were here the last time uh tell us tell us what what you're proposing this time around absolutely madam chair thank you very much for the introduction um so one thing that i will my violation because i did submit new plans after we met with the westrocksbury neighborhood council and i was sent a new violation matter by the plans examiner um mr. Perez and he eliminated the Florida area ratio violation we actually um with the way that we did the new plan so essentially there is an existing garage the garage is in the same place as what it is right now and we're building a single family pretty much around it so we went in front of westrocksbury neighborhood council it's not so sorry just to clarify so he eliminated he eliminated the fa are excessive but everything else stays that is correct madam chair yes i so the original building that was burnt down are you uh doing continuing on that footprint are you expanding that we are extending expanding that footprint so it's great to us how this is proposed to well absolutely so if we scroll down a little bit further so that is the first floor plan of the house so essentially it is a three bedroom or bathroom home it is the new square footage is actually three thousand and seventy square feet because the fa are here is point four which would be a thirty seventy two maximum square footage that we could have um so we have the kitchen living room dining room um an office on the first floor then what you see on the right inside there is the existing garage and then there's storage and then a full bath there and then the second floor is where all of the bedrooms are located um three bedrooms and three bathrooms upstairs and it's two and a half stories normal elevation um that's pretty much it but when we went in front of west offspring neighborhood council it was actually flip flopped so there used to be existing we actually took out a full bedroom in a full bathroom and then we also moved the master suite into the left side of the property as opposed to right above the garage so that the garage is left as existing floor floor part pretty much so that those were the changes so we submitted the plans to ISD the plans examiner brought us back and and basically said that the square footage is good to go now um and so this is a new plan okay and so your frontage even though you're um you're a corner at the intersection of VFW and chairman so that's why you are cited twice okay um how are the plans mr. Robinson the plans are good any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? it's good afternoon madam chair members of the board Jack Doug and manage office neighborhood services just like to go on record to support uh as pan mentioned she scaled back and took away the bedroom and a bathroom one of the biggest things with the neighborhood council is FAR so with our vice plans are not an FAR gladly she went before the neighborhood council last week on April 27th and received their support thank you. Good afternoon madam chair members of the board this is Peter Fevredo from city council or Madelmalley's office the council would like to also go on record support thank you very much. But afternoon madam chair members of the board Karen Foley councilman Easter's Saby Joly's office would like to go on record in support thank you. Madam chair secretary here we have eight letters of non-support and numerous letters of support. Madam chair I do have a raised hand. There is a are you going to speak and support our opposition for the squad? No I'm going to support this. Okay. For this one and you can you support this project or something else? This project. This okay you get to support this project? Yep. Okay can you state your name and address please? My name is Meza I'll just 142 forward and straight. Thank you. I'm sorry did you say 142 Arboros Street? Oh yes. It's a little far away. Okay. Okay. So given all this information and there are no more raised hands Miss Ambassador. No ma'am. Okay may I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Maybe the news interview. All those in favor? I like that. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much madam chair and board. Very much. Calling next. Tays. Calling B.O.A.108. 5225. 3. Westbridge Street. This is renovated existing one-family dwelling constructed attached two-story addition to consist of a garage and ground level with accessory office shoes from the second floor. The violation of Article 9 Section 1. Extensive and non-conforming dwelling. Article 51 Section 9. Inspection area at Sepack. In Article 51 Section 51. Article 57. Dispression situation. According to a lot of 20-foot Sepack. Bottle line. Name and address for the record please. A little madam chair members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project with the business address of 142 Berkley Street in Boston. And with me on the call are the owners Heidi Chase and Gregory Carpite. So why were you deferred the last time? We had several meetings with the Austin Civic Association and which point we incorporated some of the comments that they had which triggered an additional review by ISD. So we were requested to defer last time. So this is purely now for the construction of a addition and a garage. But there's no change of occupancy. That's correct. This is a single family house. It's on in a 3F 4000 district. And the lot sizes 3828 square feet. The project started with the condition of the existing garage that is there now. It's in very poor condition and it's a bit of an eye sore for the neighborhood. So we looked at replacing the garage which is important for the owners. It provides the two parking spots that are required. And also with the need for some additional space they didn't want to change the house. It's quite intact. Old Man's Art style house quite beautiful. So the thought was to add a room about the garage to provide that additional space. And the Austin Civic Association like this concept very much. And we also have the support of many of the direct of butters. And it's an unusual project but it fits this somewhat unusual neighborhood which is a lot of artists and homeowners. So let me ask you so it looks like the addition is only at the second story not at the ground level. So it's not it's not becoming an attached garage completely. So my question is how large is that room and what's the potential of it becoming a separate dwelling unit because it has a second means of egress or a means of egress. So can you talk that through a little bit? Yes the garage is connected to the house with a new stairway that comes out of the dining room and goes up to the garage. That's the connection. The space itself is an additional 404 square feet and the garage would also be rebuilt as part of this project because it's crumbling right now. It's falling apart. But the I don't I don't see this being a possible other unit. It's so small and we'd only have that one stairway to it from the outside. So you know what we're worried about is we're seeing we're seeing studios at 404 square feet so we might consider that small but you know we have we've had the the opportunity of seeing that before. So and the garage will be a fully functional garage right? Yes it's a two-car garage and but the space that the family is building is really a space they desperately need. So it never talked to me about we're going to get out or anything like that. And you know we just need to realize that this goes with the land and not with the owners. So that that's separate that staircase off of the top floor there is the second means of egress for that one bedroom. Is there is there a bathroom in there too? Yes. So there's a bathroom also above that garage. Yeah the next sheet has the floor plan. If we go back one sheet there you see the plan there in front of you now. Yes. Okay um is and how are the plans Mr. Robinson? Okay um any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Yes Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayors office and neighborhood services and going record support in this proposal. Um in rule of an abouters meeting we thought this fall five for the subcommittee so we circulated flyers um there was a couple of requests from residents just for taking a look at the plans but there were no concerns raised at the time. They met with the Austin Civic Association several times and they changed it and worked with the Civic Association to come up with this product that we have before us. We think this is a great opportunity to ensure that a local family can stay in the area. Thank you. Afternoon this is more of a creative and councilor the Greens office the councilor would like to go on our cares being to support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair secretary here we have five letters of support. Madam Chair do you have a raised hand by Anthony? Anthony can you station name an address please for the record? Yes good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. Tony Tizadoro representing the Austin Civic Association in direct about up and just wanted to echo the comments that have been made so far. The history of this Madam Chair was that the initial initial proposals that were made there wasn't really any connectivity between the main house and in the garage and as Mr. Burke has stated it's it's an interesting corner line and we had to be very creative but I think driving force behind all of this as the mayor's office has alluded to is the fact that this is a young growing family who loved their house and loved the community they live in and need some desperately needed additional space the basement was not a possibility. And it also takes down a very unsightly garage that I have to drive by every day so this was this was a creative way of addressing the needs and hopefully keeping this family in our community so we would like to go on lucky in support with the provisor of no building code we've be granted. Thank you Madam Chair I have no additional raised hands. Can you give me that information may I have a motion please? Motion to control BPD design second all those in favor. Hi any opposed motion carries. Thank you very much. Sure. Found the last case of the day calling B O A 907 098 140 to 148 Bodeum Street. This is a changing occupancy from a restaurant 3736 A sale and service of tyres and four retail stores to restaurant 3636 A retail store and cannabis dispensary the viola stock will 64-14 the cannabis establishment is conditional amenad just for the record plates. Hello Madam Chair members of the board this is Mike Ross and I'm joined by the applicant Richard Ginn and the security consultant former Superintendent Joe Harris. You may recall we were before the board March 16th and asked for a deferral due to a technical notice matter. So now we're back here and this is a change of use as the secretary mentioned to take a existing tobacco store and barber shop which is now closed and to take a portion of the tobacco store and create about a thousand square feet for the cannabis establishment. This is a local convenience district and doorchester where this is allowed by conditional use. The way this will work I can probably walk you through the plans really quickly. This floor plan shows Bodeum Street along the right hand side of it and you can see the door or the entry is a dedicated entrance and a dedicated exit. And the security will go around through the back of the building through an alley an alley that we can see on the site plan we might want to go up one. Madam Ambassador to get to enter through the or sorry down one my apologies. To get through the rear of the building and we'll enter through that back alley area. The hours of operations that we're proposing here Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday noon to 6 p.m. Expecting around 15 employees but around 8 per shift. We intend to have two security guards on site one inside one outside. There would be around 12 cameras. This is a good buffer zone slide to show you that the nearest school is outside the 500 square foot required buffer and there is no other cannabis establishment within the half mile of this facility. Bodeum Geneva is seeing a lot of new investment including our budding building which is now become a restaurant. So Councillor can you go back I just want to see back to your operations because this is a thousand square feet. Let's just go back where are you also using the basement space for security there is no basement. So where is your vault? It's accessible through the rear of the building. If you follow it in there, we'll have it somewhere in that storage area to secure back of house area. Okay and will you be taking online orders too? Yes absolutely. We show four point of sales systems there in the area and that should be sufficient for this neighborhood and for this area. One of them will be a dedicated order and I think I've mentioned it before before we're seeing around 50% online ahead of time orders. And this is purely retail it's not medicinal. That's right. Okay can I just how are the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine. There doesn't appear some small exterior work for the entry sequence it looks like it's in plan but I'm not in elevation is that correct Councillor? That's right Mr. Robinson the entry doors will be reconfigured to allow for that dedicated exit and entry and that's the only outside that's the only exterior work. And there's a great there's a great currently on the the wonderful barber shop that will be removed I assume we will remove the grates and happy to make that a condition Thank you. And how's parking proposed to work? So there is no parking at this facility there is um undesignated parking in the front of the building there's a bus stop in the front of the building there's undesignated parking across the street um there is some attempt to try to locate offsite parking but I think we see this as mostly a destination for area residents and I was saying at the end that this boat and Geneva area is seeing new investment including a very sizable apartment building at the corner and some new development so it's it's going to be a robust community the restaurant amount of business the barber shop went out of business long before we arrived at the barber shop went out of business so there's a chance to put retail back into this neighborhood and we think it will help create more of an ecosystem for that neighborhood. So where are you anticipating the eight people the eight-person staff bus shift to park? We're hoping that most of them will come from this surrounding community not all and they won't they won't have a place to park they're going to have to you know they could leave their garden and street but that's probably not optimal for them or for us and we obviously want that area to be available so it's something that we're going to work on with our employees transit and management practices and the like. Any questions from the board? Yeah the usual questions about buffer zone how far from the nearest other establishment and schools and playgrounds? I think we're 800 from the nearest school and if you go to the buffer who were you know we're not even close on that half mile. Yeah so that's the yeah that's I believe that's the Holland up Academy that we're about 800 from instead of 500 and yeah if you look at that the dark gray on the left and the right will show you where the nearest ones are. Can't you? That's Jeremy. I'm sure we do have a lot of them the Boston cannabis board as well. Okay okay any other questions from the board? Mr. Ligress? No I'm satisfied thank you madam chair. Okay is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Joe Copp and Joe with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services we'd like to go and recognize the board of this proposal they went to an extensive community process and ultimately received an approval from the Boston cannabis board and would like to continue our support through the zoning board of appeals thank you. afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Dustin Gardner of a half city councilor Andre Campbell we're officially neutral on this project but just wanted to go on record commending them for an extensive community process. Madam Chair secretary we do have one letter of opposition from the neighbors for 44 years opposed to this project. Thank you. Madam I have a few hands raised. Okay go ahead. Okay. Hi Joseph Harris can you state your name and hackea's please? Just can you hear me? Yes. Yes I'm Joseph Harris. Good morning. Good afternoon Madam Chair Madam Chair of the board. Joseph Harris I'm a retired superintendent of the Boston Police Department working now with the Guardian security advisors and I just want to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. All right and Maria Cabarral you've been unmuted can you say your name and hackea's? Yes my name is Maria Cabral I'm coming from 141 Voto and Street and I would like to support this project as this gonna bring more employment opportunities. Okay thank you. We may maintain you've been unmuted. Hi good afternoon Madam board good afternoon everyone. Hope everybody is doing well. My name is Weeming from 45 West 3rd Street Boston Mass. I want to support this project. More my- Can I just ask is this West the West 3rd Street that's in South Boston? Yes correct. Okay thank you. Can I- Can I have people who are in proximity of Bowdoin Street talk please? Everybody lower your hand just raise your hand if you are on Bowdoin Street or right next to Bowdoin Street. Okay. Okay. Okay and I- Okay go ahead Mr. Ambassador. All right. Hi Cindy Polanco you've been unmuted. Can we say your name and hackea? I think we heard from- I think we heard from Cindy. Okay. Yeah. All right. Hey good afternoon. Okay. Okay Anthony Richardson you've been unmuted. We're going to have a good year. And how good I have to know my name is Anthony Richardson. I currently own six eight and seven Blakeville Street. I also have my neighbors with me as well. And I am totally opposed to this. I've been having a hard problem with these guys blocking it driveway, leaving trash, in the alley I have pictures I have photos and it's been a constant battle. I've been a resident here for 42 years and I do own three properties that's directly a button right behind this that shares the alley and I'm greatly opposed. So you're opposed because they're so far showing little evidence of being a good neighbor? Absolutely. I have pictures that they blocked the driveway, the trash, the little dumpsters. The pocket is is I have a problem with the landlords maybe talking to their tennis about not pocket in the alley where my driveways are in the alley so they come in a block it or they block it on bonus street and I consistently have an opportunity to store dollars for the restaurants to get these employees or their customers to leave. It's- Okay. Thank you. You have to. Thank you. All right, Raphael, have you been unmuted? Okay. Gill, for where have you been unmuted? Hi, this is Gill, for error from 92 Dixtreet. I live near the Bowdoin area and I'm in support of the Falco. I think there'll be a good addition. Hey, I think that's it for the raised hands. I believe I call them everybody. Okay, um, Mr. Ross, so who's the- who's the owner of this- of this? What's the name of this establishment? Um, um, I'm sorry, I believe the comment with regards- we've never been out there. I just want to put it on the record then. Let me just just for the record get this down so that we- we're clear who it is. Yeah, so I can get you the name of the property owner. Um, who's going to be running this- this cannabis establishment? Oh, it's written- he's on the line with us. His name is Richard Ginn. I'm happy to bring him into the- into the call. He's- he's on the- Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh- And what- what name will it go under? There will be 617 THC is the name of the entity. Okay. The Madam City- I just want to place on the record a couple of things. That one, we do have letters to support from, uh, uh, main streets and from the Cape Verdean Association. The two we have been in touch with the neighbor who spoke, which is good. We've had numerous conversations with the neighbor. We've not in their door. We've talked to them out on the site. Um, but my client has never otherwise been out at the site. Never moving trash, never doing anything. I believe he's referring to the restaurant that went out on a business, uh, which we have absolutely nothing to do with. Uh, we do not own the property. We will be renting the property. We have a 10-year lease with two five years extensions. Um, we have never operated out there. That's why we're going for the board today. Well, you know, it might just, uh, foreshadow the need and the issues that might be created with the demand for parking by, um, by the staff. But, um, uh, let's see. Let's see any, uh, so given that information, uh, Tomas, are you part of this team? Tomas Gonzalez? He is not. He is not. No, I'm not. I'm just here in support. Okay. And did your facility open in Santa Street in JP? Uh, yes, it did on March 16th. Okay. Okay. Um, so let's go ahead and let's get a motion on the table. Please make a motion to approve. Um, Jeff, with a minimal amount of exterior work, do you want this honor here? Yes. Yes. Yes. We're signing. I guess Madam Chair wants me to take a look at it. We take a look at it. Signed it anyway. Okay. So, uh, motion to approve with BBA design review. And this petitioner only, right? Yes. Yes. And removal of the greatest, please. Yes. All those favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carry. So you're all set, but those providers, Councillor. Thank you very much. And Chair, members, thank you. And may I have the board stay on just for five minutes? Please. Sure.