 Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for June 12th 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen. And you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked a comment board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. The panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chairman limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button alongside along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening and is Mr. Collins on. Is Mr. Collins on. Lisa, do you see him or am I or who's. I'm not seeing. Madam chair, I'm reaching out right now. Excellent. You You You You You You You You We Just want to thank everyone for your patience, we require three members to proceed and so we are reaching out to the third member to find out what happened. you you you you you you you you you areinho off you you she said she's trying to call him one more time and and I was unable to reach David. Okay. That's not great. Is that Caroline that's with you, Mr. and I'm not going to be here. Okay. So what do you recommend as far as where where these folks go next? Is it the next full hearing or the next subcommittee? Um, so I just want to be as fair as possible to each of them for being here. Absolutely. We can put it on for the next full hearing, unless someone wants to be put on for the next subcommittee. So what do you think is the next full hearing? Is June 24th and the next subcommittee is July 24th? So how would you like to handle this? We have two four six cases on if you if we want to go through each one to ask. Because we obviously have to defer them since so just for everyone on the Zoom. So as a subcommittee, we need to have three members and all three members need to vote. For this, you know, for you to proceed. And since we only have two members, we're not able to put forth recommendations. So the question Caroline, I guess is how would you like us to proceed individually asking or. Norman, I can defer and folks reach out to you. Not sure. But Norman, read out each case. Just so it's on the record. Sure. So let's go through that. Mr. Stembridge and you and I will make motions to defer and ask our applicants. There are parents. How's that? Hold on, Madam. Okay. Madam chair. We're going to call into signing on right now. Okay. God bless them. I'm sorry for the delay, everyone. Mr. Collins has not joined subcommittee yet. So I'm guessing this is not a familiar territory for him yet. So sorry, guys. I'm sorry. Please let us know when he's joined. Thank you. You have a question. I'm going to ask you a question. Is the phone number Mr. Collins? The A57 number are you? Hello? Is the person with A57 507? I'm going to ask you a question. This is that number. My name is Andrew Brian. I made this. Oh, okay. All right. I'm just. Okay. Thanks. I don't know. Stephanie. Can you recent him the correct link? I met him. Yes. Sorry about that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll be there, but I'm here. All right, Mr. Collins. We just we're going through a roll call. So for formalities sake, Mr Collins. Present. Thank you. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Stembridge and thank you for everyone's patience. Thank you, folks. I leave. 1 6 9. 3 7 8 2. With the address of 11. Dorchester Street. If the applicant, the until they're represented now. First, they please explain to the board. Yes. We've been. Madam chair and member, Stembridge, member, Collins, attorney next to Szeule, the third. Of the目 are in. We are in. Members. Here on behalf of. Public. Public. Public restaurant. At 11 door. Dorchester Street and South Boston and D&D Hospitality LLC as the owner of the establishment. With me tonight is the Abu Ghaz who is one of the owner operators and actually lives in the building above the restaurant. This is a mixed use newer building built in the last 10 years or so with a ground floor restaurant and residential above. And with him as well is Joe Morota who is the general manager at Poverco. And this is a long existing restaurant use been opened for about eight years. And what they're proposing is to change the legal occupancy of the premises to add live entertainment after 10.30 p.m. And the idea is to better utilize the premises including the inclusion of live entertainment as an amenity to its customers. And this is actually although this request to the board under zoning is new. This is not a new experience at the restaurant. They've actually, this would be kind of a continuation and a more permanent zoning change of use the last few years they've done. They've had over 300 live entertainment one day applications that they've utilizing with the city at the restaurant. And so this obviously over 300 over the past three years is a really good sample size. And that's the the purpose or the reason for coming to the board today is to ask for this to be a permanent change as part of their zoning and occupancy at the site. I bring this up because you know anytime you add live entertainment to a restaurant there's bound to be questions. But in this case they're a well known operator again over eight years and they've had over 300 of these over the past few years. This is included in a lots of visits, inspections as a part of these one day applications from the fire department from the police department. During that time there's been no issues or violations during those one day entertainment applications. As part of this they've also in the and use one days they've converted all of the sound coming into the restaurant through their own system. Meaning anybody who comes to do live entertainment is going to be playing into their system which they can control versus somebody bringing in their own sound system which will obviously bring in a different variable versus them controlling it. And they also replaced their cloth roof at the ceiling with a glass roof that helps to maintain sound from traveling. The idea would be to continue what they've been doing for the past few years. They're not going to change the type of entertainment or really the typical usage of it which is Friday and Sunday live music and Saturday DJ. So this is not something that's typically you know during the week. Obviously you know if they have a special occasion or an event they want to accommodate a guest with a class for live music or DJ but in general they want to keep it simple and nice as to you know meaning what they've been doing for the past three years. So again really good sample size and again Mr. Bougas is one of the owner operators actually lives in the unit in the building as well. And then I'll just quickly talk about the zoning they're both conditional use requirements not on chair this is not a variance. It's not a forbidden use it's actually a conditionally used for the use change for live entertainment after 10 30 p.m. under article 68. And I believe I saw the mayor's office on but we did have an about our meeting on March 27. It was lightly attended. There was support there was some questions and concerns as well. But we also did provide a handful of support letters from director butters through Stephanie and through the board for this application for the hearing. And then the final thing I'll know that chair is we did get a planning department recommendation of approval for this which again for conditional use permits very helpful and they stated that the existing context supports the inclusion of live entertainment past 10 30 p.m. in the existing restaurant space. Happy to pause here we don't have a formal presentation. I think generally this is the plan you can see where the live entertainment is in the red rectangle which is where they've been doing it for the past few years as well. So again just looking for a more formal continuation of what's been done for the past several years. So thank you. Thank you. A couple of questions on my end. Can you confirm the one day licenses would have been the hours of those and have there been any issues you know any need to call the police you know any any violations during from those. So to answer the second question first no. It'd be open and correct me if I'm wrong but no no issues or violations you know when we do these one days we actually I think it's sign off each and every time from BPD for them to approve it. So they signed off on everyone and obviously if you have issues they're not going to sign off on them the next 200 times if you had issues in the first 100. So no no issues as far as timing I don't know if you want to answer that what what's the general timeframe. I think that was the first question from that chair you're on mute you're on mute though. Sorry. I don't know that but hopefully you feel there you go. For live music it's until midnight and whenever we have a DJ it's still one. Okay that's that's not correct. 9 p.m. to midnight and then 9 to 1. Okay thank you. Other questions from the board? Yes Madam Chair. So if I read it correctly the only change is adding live music. There's no change to this number of seats. That's correct Mr. Stembridge exactly correct everything remains the same and this is set up this floor plan is set up exactly the way it is now for the one day's. So no change of seating off to proceed anything like that exactly. And there's not a dance floor from what I can see. No no. And so just what are your hours what are your hours and so you know your questions after 1030 but what's the expectation that you're going to follow the similar 12 or 1 a.m. That you have been doing. Over 300 of these we just want to keep it the same that it is we do a lot of functions here also with weddings with private events. So we just we don't want to change anything we've been doing. We most likely have a band on a Friday a DJ on a Saturday and occasionally a band on a Sunday and we just want to continue doing that and we also. Like I mentioned do a lot of private events that if the party would like to do a band or DJ during the week we'd like to be able to do so but nothing. No changes at all whatsoever we've been doing for the last eight years. Thank you and so just to confirm again what are your closing hours. 1 a.m. every day. Okay thanks. Any other questions from the board. Hearing none may have public testimony. I'm chair and members see Johnson with the office of neighborhood services this petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on March 27th at which there was a concern about noise but no stated opposition to the proposal. Our office has received five letters of opposition and five letters of support which have been forwarded to the board those opposed site the potential for noise. The same Vincent's lower Ed neighborhood association took no position on this proposal with that background we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any response to the noise trash concerns that were raised just to uswash people's concerns. I mean I think the track record you know speaks for itself a little bit with that no violations. I know I know field lives in the building and the reason for that is to address these concerns. Literally madam chair of the butter meeting field gave a cell phone help for anybody if they're working concerns. There are other restaurants right in this general area. You know that we can't obviously control. We can't control the public. We can't control the public. They're patrons but I you know this is meant to be a neighborhood establishment. This is not meant to be. And this is again you know. This isn't going to be a new. This isn't a new added entertainment you know I think the track record there of these 300 plus over the last few years. In no violations officially. Thank you. Thank you. And that's raised. If that's okay. Briefly yes. Adam Buckley. Yeah. Hi Adam Buckley. 412 West first street. I'm a direct butter across the street. If you had my camera on you'd see the public logo in the background front door. And I think it's not going to be a lot of things. I think it's not going to be a lot of things. Every first Wednesday of the month we. I have a group of Southie dads that come by. You know so Tio knows that we were big fans of public over the restaurant. I would say that we are definitely opposed to public over the nightclub on the weekend. And I'm you know apologies to you. You heard me say this before we've had lots of chats about it. I think Tio you're doing your best but. And I think it's going to be a lot of things. And I think that is going to be a lot of things. That we have on the weekends. You know the issue I don't think is that is maybe noise coming from inside the establishment. It's as when everyone spills out at 1 a.m. Just in terms of dynamics. You know on the weekend it's kind of a drink till last call kind of place at 1 a.m. Everyone spills out at the same time. It's a teeny tiny little street. There are ubers beeping. So I don't know which is their first time here. So here it is. They're going to stay late to clear people out of the area which I thank him for. But ultimately ultimately you know are kids bedroom is facing that entrance we had to move it. To the back of the house. Kids are getting older. They both need their bedroom. You know I probably have to move if this is going to go through so you know I'm opposed. And I'll rest there. Thank you. Thank you. actually it went back up. Okay let's let's keep moving so. Attendee. Oh should I have some speaker now. Uh yeah if they're if they're heard please. Attendee. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. My name is Elise. I live at 525 East Second Street public always on the corner of the block. I they have been I've been here longer than they have been here. It's been a great addition to the neighborhood. It's great to have the live music at the end of the week. I really they've been a great neighbor for me for my family comes into visit. It's always the place that we go and I have again it's it's right on the corner of the block and I have not heard any noise at night. Um even with my windows open it has not been an issue for me and you know I'm always trying to support small businesses and um again the public has been a great neighbor. Thank you. Uh Jacqueline. Yeah hi I'm Jackie Birchine. I actually live in the building um and I also fully express my full support for this. Um I live directly upstairs and they're very respectful and valued part of our neighborhood. Um they always maintain a thoughtful balance between creating that lively scene a welcoming atmosphere and a good residential community. So I think this will enhance its offerings um and again I fully support it and I've never had an issue with any of the noise. So thank you. Hey Jenny. How many raised hands do you have on this? Um they keep going out. Okay well we're gonna take two more and then we're gonna move on. Okay Jenny. Hi this is Jenny from the South Boston um commerce and I just wanted to let everyone know that we are in full support. Theo and Joe have been great to the community. They are always willing to help out. They are great small business in the neighborhood and anything that will further their success the chamber of commerce is for. Thank you. All right Katie. Hi there can you hear me? Yes ma'am. Uh yeah Katie Kualske by the five on nine a second street um in our building I'm the unit that probably is the closest probably same distance as the first speaker. My living room in bed room overlook publico in the five years as an owner we've never had an issue um like the current or past speaker that just said it's really exciting to see publico support not only the neighborhood but other small businesses in the neighborhood, local jewelers, fitness instructors, etc in their space so we love it. It's a great neighborhood spot. I recently hosted an event there. I know the music thing that's on the table has been going for the past two or three years. Hasn't really been an issue from our side again my living room and bedroom. Over with the. Thank you. So thank you so much for the time. Any other questions from the board? Any last word from the applicant? I just want to say thank you to everybody. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B0816989139. With the address of 33397L Avenue. If the applicant's hand or their representative of present would they please explain for the board. Somebody has their hand raised. Can you speak? Oh. Hi. Are you here to present? Hi. I was told that I should attend. My name is Fee Fam. I am the owner of Yenys. The Berger and Social. I also have present here. I am sorry. Are you here for 33 to 397 Hillev? Yes. I am. Thank you. Please proceed. Yep. So my name is Fee Fam. I am the owner of Yenys Berger and Social. And to my knowledge we're on this call to request a. I believe to remove the proviso so that we could have a takeout option on our C.I. All right. So is this just a just a existing business and you're just removing the the proviso for this applicant only? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Any questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, ma'am. Chair members of the board. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns with no real operational changes. We did not host in a butters meeting. They've been operating on a temporary license for takeout and there's there's no issues that have been raised with us. I would without defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. There's no other hands raised, ma'am. Chair. Would that may have a motion? Make a motion to approve. There's a second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next we have two companion cases. The first is case BOA 1697197 with the address of two summer street. Along with that we have case BOA 1697509 with the address of two are summer street. If the applicant and the and or their representative and president will they please explain these cases to the board. Yes. Hello. My name is Doug Jack. I'm the architect for this project. I'll be representing the owners. Stephanie Moe Taz will also present on this call. Thank you for taking the time to hear our case. This is a single family residence that my owners, my clients purchased a couple years ago. It had an existing 16 foot by 24 foot wood shop in the rear yard that they're proposing a convert to an ADU. They're expecting a child soon and they're basically intending for their in-laws to be able to stay there and help them out with child care and things of that sort. We're not changing the footprint or the extent of the extra or we're not proposing to change the footprint or exterior envelope scale at all. We would modify the windows to work with a new change of use as an ADU as opposed to a wood shop. We would also be adding plumbing so that we can have a full bath and a kitchen within the unit. Fish scroll to the next page. It shows the proposed interior floor plan of that one bedroom ADU unit. Before presenting tonight we presented to the abutters and then we also presented to the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council and received both their approval. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Madam Chair and members, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on April 3 at which no concerns were raised. The West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council is in support of this application. With that background we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. There's no other hands raised. Will that may I have a motion? I think a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 171-446-0 with the address of 23, which mere road? It's the applicant and the other representative present. Would they please explain to the board? Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. Madam Druskel, White House Architecture and Design. This is just a small renovation of an existing single family home. It's a small cape. The idea would be to rip off the roof of the second floor and pretty much match all the houses in the neighborhood. The existing footprint is pretty much staying the same besides the overhang in the front and the back. The violations are it's an existing knock informing a lot on the sides. Thank you. Questions from the board? I guess Madam Chair, so this will continue to be a single family. Correct. Yeah. It's upstairs the house right now. It just has the two bedrooms. They're a family of five. So they're looking to stay in the city, they both work in the city. So they're just looking to make the upstairs a little bit more usable for the family. Thank you. Madam Chair and board members, C. Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process are often hosted in a butters meeting on April 16th that which no concerns were raised. The West Rocksbury neighborhood councils in support of this application. With that background, we defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? A motion to approve. Their second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you so much. And next we have case VOA 17065930 with the address of 11 Bonair Street. It's the applicant and the representative of present. If they please to play in the case to the board. Yes. Hi. Good evening. My name is Jackie Bell. This is my husband Ryan. We lived at 11 Bonair Street. We had applied and reached out to the Department of Public Works to expand and widen our driveway with the instructions we were given saying that the maximum allowable feet was 14. And we're just looking to have our driveway right now. Fits one car, be able to widen it slightly to be able to fit both of our cars for me. It would just be nice to be off the street as my husband has a commercial vehicle. We were denied because it was the ISD said it was a 12 maximum allowable. So we were just hoping to expand the driveway to be able to fit two cars. And that way I'm not taking my toddler in and out in the middle of the street. Thank you. So can you clarify what is it right now and why are you unable to drive two cars in? Right now, I believe it's only on the plan. I'll zoom in a little bit. It's eight feet and we're looking to expand it to 14 to be able to fit two cars. It's just a one car driveway right now. And can you are there are cars allowed to park on the street now? So would you be taking space that would otherwise potentially have a park car? No. No, there are some cars are not allowed to park on that street. Oh, yeah, they are allowed to park on the street. Yeah. Okay. Maybe because Collins can shed light. Why this can't be doable with 10 or 12 feet? So you're increasing your curb cut from 9.4 to 6. Sorry, to 14 feet. But it's also you're creating more front yard parking, which is already not allowed. We can't approve that. Can't approve more front yard parking there. If we would be able to adjust it to 12 feet. I don't see why you couldn't adjust it to a maximum of 12 feet and essentially put two cars there. If you can fit them right, it's just that 14 feet isn't we can't approve another parking spot out front. We were told by Boston Public Works and it could be 14. And it could be 14. Yes, yes, we have it in writing. I have I revised the plans once already to make it 14 because of Boston Public Works. So it's not even even if it works or BTT because BTT would likely not have supported a 14. So I don't. I'm not even necessarily against a 14. It's not the 14. It's creating another parking spot out front that's more of the problem. It would just be why we have a five. Go ahead. So where we'll be going widening, we are back against somebody's going across their fence. So it's not necessarily like we're taking up more space into somebody's front yard. It's just that we're going to the right a little bit wider of against a fence. So it wouldn't even be like that you could it wouldn't necessarily look like it was taking up any front yard space. Yeah, so so you have a five foot setback between your house and your lot line, correct? I yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, or according to the plans you do, it's just you're parking a car in the front of the building, which we can't allow more of like what's existing is grandfathered in, but you we can't approve an additional spot out front like that. So no matter what we can't park two cars there, we can't approve front yard parking. Even though there's already two car parking across the neighborhood. It's grandfathered in. I think my and my question is just really around the 12 versus the 14 as well, because it sounds to me like their parking is already allowed on the street, which means you'd be essentially taking a street a spot that someone else could use that is a public spot and privatizing it. So I guess there's a couple of different issues or questions. Privatizing a public spot on our property? No, in order to widen your curb cut, you would have to remove the possibility of some of a car in the public realm parking on that on that spot. So yeah, I understand. I mean, if I know this is a case back, why I was asking about the width and why you cannot accommodate it with less. Yeah, if you looked at our street, you would kind of understand more where we're in a very interesting situation where we're basically the only house on this little suction of road. So we're not really taking away any other parking spaces. And the neighborhood's in full support. Hmm. Any other questions from the board? So it can be if I hear correctly, it can be expanded to 12 feet from where they are now. Who are you asking that question, too? Oh, I guess I'm asking the applicant. Whoa, whoa. I believe David said earlier that there was nine point current driveway is 9.5 feet. Yes. And it can be expanded to 12 feet. Yes, we'd be happy with 12. We just weren't clear on where it should be because we were told by Ashley Biggins from Boston Public Works that it was could be 14. So that's why we weren't with our plans at 14. And then you said, I.S.D. reject. I thought you said public works rejected it because it was a maximum of 12. No, I.S.D. rejected it because it said that it was a maximum of 12. But the instructions when we went for the permit said that we could go maximum 14. So we applied for 14. And then we were rejected, which is how we start the appeals process process. We're happy with 12 and we could fit with 12. We just we went for what was written as the maximum allowable. Okay. And maybe I'm missing something. Do you have a garage? Yes. Yes. So are do two cars fit in your garage? No, it's a one car garage. It's a very small one car garage. In the one parking space in front of the garage is currently taking. So that's why we're just looking to widen it to the right slightly. Which sounds to me like you're not using your garage from parking. You can't because there's one. There's already a spot in there that it's already being taken. Yeah. I might be missing something because that. So he asked that. He pulled into the driveway. It's the one car driveway. So if he's pulled into the driveway, then you can't use somebody can't get into the garage. We just be playing creating a tandem basically. Yeah. I drive a commercial vehicle for work. So I'm not allowed to park in the street overnight. So I always have to be in the driveway. And that's why we wanted to have a two car driveway. So we can be side by side. So we're not shuffling cars all day every day for the rest of our lives. Thank you. No, that's helpful. Appreciate that. Was that may we have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Ziggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office would like to go in support of this application. Our office hosted on a butters meeting on April 30th at which no concerns were raised. The rest Rocksbury Neighborhood Councils in support of this application. Once again, a one essence support of the variants to allow the occupants optimal use of their property with that background. I just want to reiterate. Oh, and I support. Thank you. There's no hands raised. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, did do we have anything from BTD on here? I can't. I know I was going to ask that usually. I'm going to point that out. I don't know. I'm not. I'm pretty sure. I didn't see anything. Yeah, so Bob DeMico, he retired. We did. Okay. Yeah, and so he said just deferred to BPD's judgment. And you said you have a written letter from BPDA saying that, sorry, from the public works department saying they can be 14 feet. Yes. From Ashley Biggins. Okay. In the recommendation. And just to clarify for that, they would still need zoning relief for them. I mean, to be honest, this sounds like departments who are not talking to each other because of the, which is above our pay grade, right? I mean, this is like why isn't public works in BTDO? We do have a neighbor that's trying to get on to speak in support. And he says he's muted. I know someone was on earlier, but, uh, you know, yeah, he's the thing that I've been following this December. Mr. Collins, you see a 12 foot compromise here? Yeah, yeah, that's fine. I mean, I'm also, I'm okay with the 14 feet. If the BTDO, sorry, not a BTDO if public works is, if BTDO didn't write a recommendation, then. No, BPD did, which is in denial. So I'm suggesting a happy medium. I will motion to approve a 12 foot curb cut. Is there a second? Right. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And with that, I thank you all. Uh, thank you for your patience. And I'll see some of you at the next hearing. I'll have a good night. You too.