 you you you you man and chair for thank you let's do a roll call Mr. Stembridge Mr. Valencia isn't it's real isn't Mr. Lennon isn't Mr. Aiken I'm here as high is Luke Hall isn't thank you Mr. Stembridge thank you back into the discussion scary for a lot of 30 first we have case be away one four four three seven for the address of 43 to 45th Street the Aguette the one yes good afternoon madam chair members the cast lacass law 75 Arlington Street in Boston representing the owner of the property and the proponent Ricka Belavado with us also is our architect Eric Zacherson and if we could have the producer and if anything can you also since this is a rediscussion let us know what has changed if anything from the last presentation so we are there thank you Madam chair yes Madam Chair the as well as changes made in response to comments from this board at the most recent prior hearing. We're in, um, Hansi Bada-Barraza made certain suggestions and those have been incorporated into the project as well as comment on the VPDA. And that includes the project plans were changed to remove all proposed front yard parking spaces to reduce the number of parking spaces from 19 to 16 to add an interior bike parking room with 16 bike parking spaces to the ground floor, convert the existing concrete front yard or landscape permeable lot area with walkway and change the proposed roof or the rear addition from a flat roof to a hip roof to align with the existing buildings. As they say with any Boston and any historic area, in addition to roof line was then lowered 5 feet to 44 feet from a flat to the hip & then like for the reduced the hip in response to BPDA comments, these changes were resulted in a community review process and an initial review by ISD. review by ISD. There's one additional change not noted in the BPDA recommendation, which is now I'll note a recommendation for approval with design review, which also has changed from the prior BPDA recommendation. So we believe that the project has come a long way in making changes to achieve the BPDA recommendation of approval. One last change that is not noted and that is that Ms. Barras asked for a change to the front entry way to make the ground floor unit accessible and that has been done as well. If we can stop right here, this is the proposed site plan on the right-hand side is the front of the existing Convent Building. This is the former St. Matthews parish in Dorchester. There's a large church building next door which stands at 65 feet. This proposal relates solely to the former Convent of the church. The front yard is currently entirely paved over in the parking lot. That's going to be stored to the same condition as historic photos that we found, which is a restoration of the front yard area, greening of the front space, creation of a walkway to the center entrance of the front of the building, and then using the existing driveway to pull the parking to the rear of the building at the ground floor below the proposed addition with additional units at the back of the building. Next slide please. And I'm going to keep scrolling. So to walk us through the floor plans and then I can come back to talk about the zoning issues that are presented as they relate to the changes that have been made, I'll ask our architect, Eric Zyperson, to walk the board through the floor plans and explain the programming for the 14 units in the existing building and the addition at the rear. Thank you. Madam Chairman, members of the board. The road side of the street, the right side of the drawing represents Stanton Street and that the primary entrance historically and in the future development. The street is actually off to the right of the page but we wanted to kind of form in with that orientation. So the existing entry stair would remain and that would bring you up to the lobby. What we've done in addition since the last provision, since the last discussion, was added a wheelchair left so that these ground floor units would be visible by people with disabilities. And the plan is to make one group one accessible unit to probably happy because of its grade change within the unit or we could at least make the public spaces of it something that could be visited by somebody in a wheelchair. So the two units remain as two bed, two bed units and then from here people would go up through the central staircase to the levels above. Next slide please. On this slide you see the portion on the right is reusing the existing shell of the of the convent and the bill and the three units on the left units, 36 and seven here are, there would be an addition that would be built behind the existing frame but units four and five would be nestled into the existing construction and oriented so that they can use the existing windows and kind of bring some a new life inside of the space. As you can see, unit four is quite large but these are two other than unit six, they're two bed and two bed units. Next slide. As we go up, you speak again the three units on the left are the addition and the unit nine is using the existing third floor of the of the convent schools. In this case, that's the large three bed room that we have on the floor. Next slide. Finally you see how the addition comes up a little bit higher than the convent but as we see in, as we'll show in the innovations that we mitigate that by trying to make it feel like an act of the existing structure is something that's behind it and allows us to keep the roof lines of the previous of the existing moment. Next slide. So this is the diagram because the roof structures kind of complicated but you see on the left the left yellow shape is the addition and the right shape shows the kind of three different levels of the roof of the convent which is below that. Next slide. Next slide. Okay, so here you can see they're trying to use the existing brick building and bringing it back to life and then the lighter lines you see the cement primer panels behind that are literally behind the building. So the third floor that kind of peek out over there over the this would be more as I'll tell you in plan with you further back over the what is the existing parking lot. In this you can see you can also see how we brought down the hip grooves in order to bring down the height of the building. We both squeezed it down onto the level below and we reduced the angle in order to bring down some of that so we understand that there were concerns about the shadowing of this building onto some of the very very yards. Next slide. And then again this is the elevation from the other side or from me from that right side of the building you can see the walkway that connects the convent to the other building and then our building to the right over the open existing parking lot. Our addition is actually there. Next slide. And this is the view from the rear what the neighbors at the rear would see. The three story addition raised on that raised up over the parking but portions of the existing brick building so peeking through on through the base of it. Next slide. And then this is looking towards the back of the street and the enough beds from the sanctuary to convent and what was you to in the earlier plan. And then on the left side over the parking you see the three levels of units and then the brick exposed and re-verbished wherever you can see on the right and the lower level. Next slide. I think that might be another I don't know the rendering we made it into here but I think that might be it for you can show. Thank you. Thank you. I can madam chair if I could just briefly address the zoning. The off street parking insufficiency parking spaces required by the code are 21 but as noted in the recitation of the changes that has been reduced to 16 with a suggestion by the BPDA that it be further reduced however as is not surprising during the community review process the concern about parking and the neighborhood was expressed over and over again and we think that 16 is a nice compromise that provides at least one parking space per dwelling unit. The multi-family use is a forbidden use in this three F sub district but as noted in the BPDA memo recommendation the multi-family use is consistent with the prior use of the building as well as with the goals of imagine Boston 2030 for adaptive reuse of historic structures such as this. A loading bay requirement is cited as a requirement of the zoning code as the BPDA notes this points to the need for zoning reform as given this is a residential building loading bays ought not to be required in residential buildings as they're inconsistent with the residential use. The FAR max is 0.4 the proposed is 1.2 building height in stories max lad is 2.5 the proposed or but as shown on the elevations that is just slightly above the existing content and very much below the height of the adjacent church next door the same Matthews parish church which is subject to a separate proposal that is not before you today but the church structure stands at 65 feet. The rear yard requirement is 30 and the proposal is 13.1 feet. Again all of this is consistent with the overall recommendation of the BPDA for approval with design review which essentially serves the same function as small project review and we are certainly happy and willing to continue to engage in that process as we have to date on many occasions to be responsive to the suggestions that have been made throughout the course of this process to make a better project. There are you know frozen cons of every project but we think that the overall historic preservation of this very lovely brick building that is a former religious institutional building is a worthy goal but also a very expensive goal and my client has worked very diligently to balance the competing interests of saving and preserving the historic structure and the cost of of doing so with the need to create the additional units ending up at 14 units provides two IDP units whereas if there was a further reduction in that as had been suggested by some throughout the process we would lose one or both of the IDP units depending on where it landed so we think that at 14 with the two IDP with the 16 parking spaces the preservation of the existing historic convent strikes the right balance and we think has earned us the BPDA recommendation of approval with design of you with that'll pause and we're happy to answer any questions. Thank you questions from the board. Okay here I'm in chair. Yes. Sorry two two questions. One can you speak to the height of this school building down the street and not recall just a couple of lots over. Do you know the height of that? On the church. Erick, do you know the height of that? I believe it's a four-story building. I do not have the height of that pound of street. I believe I can find the height of the church from up the school. Yeah you mentioned the height of the church of turning the cast 65 feet. That's that's fine thank you. I've been in the church I've been in the school. I was just the context there of the the lot-size I'm just curious from a historic preservation perspective was there any view of using historic tax credence for the property to offset any of the costs normally you can't do additions to a building I'm just wondering if the proponent did explore that at all in terms of trying to figure out the right number of units and the financing stack. Ricky Belado is is on and perhaps could answer that Ricky are you able to answer that? Yes I'm here. Yeah I mean we took careful consideration into this project to make sure that what we're here to ask for today is something that can actually get Bill and deliver units to the city of Austin. You know from a financial standpoint if it gets cut any further it really isn't able to be uh financible um and so we're really looking at you know wanting to be able to actually build this and deliver units. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Okay hearing none may have public testimony. Good afternoon Madam Chairman was the board. My name is Ross Calkler, I'm the mayor's office and they're in charge of the government services. The applicants have completed their community process at this time. The letters meeting was held in March of 2023 with nine people in attendance as far as the Civic Association's Nalgo, the Civic Association is as a letter on file in opposition. There's also petitioning containing over 61 letters of opposition on file the ZBA and in my records and there's also two letters of opposition from Zion Temple Holy Church and Yeshua Worship Center on file. At this time our office would like to defer to this board stretchman. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chairman's board. My name is Iof from the Office of City Council of Brown Morrell and I'm in charge of this project as Ross Corkin just stated there are several oppositions stemming mainly from the overall height and the uh quality of units but that being said um the council would like to note the amount of changes being made to the project and the only willingness and cooperation to meet with the community as well as to name up there and not mentioned uh community benefit to follow up with uh whatever the community has in mind um the council would like to defer to decision at the board. Any other raised hands? Madam Chairman with the board this is mine up arise representing the Carpenters Union. We'd like to go and record and transfer for this project. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other raised hands Jessica? Is someone named yet? Are you here? Uh speak. Yes ma'am Jarrah. I apologize. I agree. Yeah there's there's a couple of raised hands right now. Okay I can't see you. No, that's something. Yeah. That man else else uh Nelson you're muted right now. Um yes can you hear me? Yes ma'am. Okay um the community is you know it's strong enough to issue goodness development and our main concern is to the community's comfortable with 11 units, three floors, not the 14 floor floors. It's a market rate unit but I also haven't heard the developers talk about the nine foot driveway. The driveway is not the 10 foot driveway. Even on their plans as listed as nine feet and the Boston Transportation Department requires a 10 foot driveway particularly related to the density of this. Okay we can we can follow up with that after we hear testimony. Thank you. Uh Milton Jones you're muted. Uh yes um good afternoon everyone um uh yeah again Milton Jones representing the uh 34th Stand Street and the uh team as well um and we'd like to you know welcome the 10 to our community and we hope that we can come to a mutual agreement about moving forward with the project without the addition of the fourth floor. V10 is proud to say that the goal of the project has been to keep the historical preservation of the project. My opposition is based on the goal of keeping the preservation and historical look of the entire street. The church was built in 1899. My house was built in 1890. The houses have a historical flair and charm as they are tucked on this small one-way street. The fourth floor takes away from the historical look. It does not contextually fit and it sticks out like a sore thumb as it hovers over several butters two and three houses away from the project. I just can't see the need for fourth floor other than helping the recoup profit from the project. We don't want to destroy the historical look. It is not in the best interest of the community. Thank you. Thank you. Uh Chris here I'm muted. I'm going to do Chris. I'm calling it in the port of project. I think it's a very use of to the band building and being able to bring more housing, turn out in the right way. Thank you. Christina. Hi, how are you? I don't want to be a divorce but we can agree to the three floors in 11 units. If I could rate a ownership which was affordable, a homeownership. Um, once again, we do want to preserve the history and historical look of it. We do not need to be going up higher. I am owners of 42 San Street and 63 San Street. My grandparents own 42 and my parents own 63 San Street. So I would be in a butter as well and I am opposed to the density that is going to be bringing to such a small neighborhood. So if we can all meet again together and come through and agreement, I can see us moving forward with the three floors in 11 units. Thank you. Manager, there's five more hands raised and you might continue or I'm going to ask some folks to start putting their comments into the chat and try to take a couple more and if you could just be brief and add new information. Okay, Monica. Hi, can you, hi, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Awesome. My name is Monica Jones and I live on Stanton Street 34. I live directly across from the, from the project. The cross that sits on the church right now is in one of my, I can see it in one of my main bedrooms and I've looked at it for pretty much the entire time in my life. My request is in line with the 61 petitions that was submitted in opposition from, from my neighbors who live on Stanton, Dyer and Uford Street. As a group, we are trusting in this process. We feel as though there are many density issues that this project of the size brings to such a small space. One of the developers said that something is, so there will be no pleasant experience in the back area for the people who purchase these units. We feel as though we've met beaten more than halfway. We are not fighting them on every one of the variants of changes. We're just asking them to eliminate the, for floor, I believe that the people who live in coast proximity of this project, we've been around for a long time and we, we've created a vibrant and safe community. I believe that we're the ones who know best what is good for Stanton Street. Please do not change the experience unless all parties of interest can agree. Thank you. Kat, on the panel side, I believe you had your hand raised. I did. I'm not sure how I became a panelist, but I am a resident first-antist street. My name is Kat. I live right across the street as well from the church. My participation in today's meeting is to put on record that I am in opposition of the fourth floor and the extra density that it would bring. I would like for them to adhere to Article 65, Section 9's O'Ning Law. I remember referring to that it's way too close to the property line. There's not enough rear yard space denser and it would be much more tall than allowed. And as someone that's been a resident here for multiple years, I genuinely just don't think that the fourth floor is necessary. I don't think that it's okay to not keep up with the historical with the history that's on the street. It just I don't think that would be a good project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can the applicant respond to some of the feedback just so that we can have a full picture? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. As stated previously in my presentation and in response to Mr. Aiken's question by Mr. Bell about feasibility is definitely an issue here given that restoring and got renovating the historic existing convent building is a very expensive proposition. And Mike Linus worked very hard to strike the right balance between preserving that building and doing so in a way that it makes it the entire project economically feasible. The height of the addition in the back is less than 10 feet above the existing zoning max. And again in context of what is right next door with the existing church building in context and in elevations, the roof with them of the existing convent and the addition is quite pleasing to the eye. And again, changes were made to that responsive to both the BPDA and to this board's architect throughout this lengthy review process. And further that the BPDA's recommendation includes a proposal for continuing design review which will continue to occur. 14 units yields to IDP units. Anything less than that, again, just doesn't work. You can't do a leaven and two and have the financing pencil out. So given all the factors brought to bear, the importance of historic preservation, the importance of production of housing units, the importance of production of IDP units, we think that the proposal that is before you today represents a fair balance of all of those competing interests. And it's worthy of the approval recommendation by the BPDA. Mr. Woodhouse, can you comment on, can you address the question about the the driveway just so that we're clear the concern about it being night, but yeah, but that's Eric. It's actually the chapel portion building I believe Eric. Yeah, we exactly, the existing chapel at the pinch point with the property line, the leaven arrow down to 9 feet. That has historically been the driveway to the back of the church from the time when the church was used. And we chose to continue to use that rather than an office portion of the chapel. But that is the only point where it's 9 feet. The rest of the driveway and drive-iles would be per BPDA standards, BPD standards, but right there at where the chapel gets very close to the property line is where it's, there's a 9 foot pinch point, but as I said, that's been used for quite a while. And so we had planned to use it as well. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, are you available just to weigh in as, you know, again, this project has been before us many times and BPD's recommendation has changed. I, yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm with the board. Jeff, you have to be a BPDA. As noted, I think it was deferred four times. And I think all four of those times we've recommended to dial without prejudice. I will give credit to the development team for going back and rearranging some of the parking, dealing with some of the architectural significance and additions to the building. So because they were responsive to our recommendations of the changes of their original plans, BPDA would like to go on recommends supporting this with design review. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. Two questions. One is we had one speaker and two notes of support for those also residents of Stan stream or the immediate streets there because otherwise it seems like pretty universal opposition. So this is not our only point of trying to gauge the project, but just wondering a little bit more about those three comments in support. In the proponent offer was a Chris Pearl who spoke and two others. They didn't get that. Mrs. Dome. Also, Mr. Haken, it wasn't noted by the ONS rep, but I believe Mr. Stambert could confirm that there are several letters of support from nearby residents in the file as well as well as the speakers who spoke. Mr. Haken is asking whether you have knowledge of the proximity to this project of the resident of the folks who spoke. Do you? Perhaps my client has Ricky. I know Chris owns a property in Dorchester nearby. I'm not sure he's not on the Stan street, and I'm not sure who the other supporter was. Okay, well, Mr. Stambert, maybe in the meantime, I don't know if you can see what how many letters of support are in the folder that would just be helpful. And my last question would be when it comes to affordability, there are programs such as Commonwealth Builder, probably some others through the city that can help subsidize affordable homeownership units that have been explored as a way to deal with the overall number of units and affordability. I'm certainly sensitive in asking that question to the number of times this has been to the board and for deferrals and possibly seeing different board members. But I think it's a real question, I understand the financial feasibility of the requests that are in front of the board. Ricky, can you weigh in on that whether I come up Builder Program with the next board? Sorry, what was the question? There are other programs to help assist in subsidizing affordable homeownership. Have those been explored in terms of how you're dealing with the feedback of number of units? Yeah, so we've started, we talked to some of the counselors about some programs that could help us. It's a long drawn out process to get those funds and we're a smaller development firm and a lot of times those go to more established firms. So it's something we'll definitely look into. I think in regards to the height, we're looking at the context of the school and the church next door, we're below those. So I know that the fourth story is something that keeps coming up but it's just the building, we're just the fourth story slightly higher than the existing structure. We've got like five feet tall or so. I think that's an important note. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? To reply some data from earlier, early on in words, well, five, no 12 letters of support, but I don't have a way to start with. Thank you. Okay. Hearing no other questions from the board, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I will put forward a motion of approval with a provides-out for designer view and also subject to execution of an affordable housing agreement. I know how challenging adaptive reuse can be and I'm happy to see the applicant maintain the existing building while being able to add in addition to it as satisfactory to the BPDA and the work reflected, you know, directed by the BPDA and the sports. I do think the variances are warranted in this situation. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stonebridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Lee-Woe. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. No. Mr. Aiken. No, I don't believe that based upon the answers I've heard about some of the economic feasibility that we've heard enough to know that this is the minimum needed to achieve the intended outcome. Ms. Mukahal. Yes. Chair Osloos. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, kindly. We're going to go any further. Since we're asking one court conference, we'll ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 1GM conference. Madam Chair, if we do have one raised hand right now. Okay. And ask him to meet Dr. Armstrong. We're for the next. Sorry. Okay. No, yes. Yeah. I believe you're requesting deferral for this case. Yes. Yes, we are. So my name is Dr. Shilayra Armstrong. I apologize on that. Secretary Severed Read into the record. Okay. So this would be four cases. Be aware. One five four seven three four five. With the address of 1457 V.S.W. Parkway. Go ahead. Starting your mute, ma'am. Yes. Okay. So my name is Dr. Shilayra Armstrong. I'm here representing 1457 V.F.W. Parkway, which is a proposed canvas delivery facility. We are requesting a deferral to the next meeting because we needed zoning relief granted a conditional use in a variance for the buffer zone. But our traffic study was just delivered to us on Friday, which didn't allow us that 14 days that you all need. So we do request a deferral until the next meeting if at all possible. Thank you. Madam Chair, yeah, next available is April 30th. Okay. Okay. Thank you. I make a motion to the fall to April 30th. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Ms. McGaule? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. We'll see you soon. Thank you. Secretary Stembridge and the other board members. So again, for the 1 p.m. time frame, if there are any requests for withdrawals for deferrals. Here we move none. Then we move on to case B.O.A. 153. 3227. But the address of 29 R and Street is the applicant and the representative's president, if he was planning to report to you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Timothy Fraser from the law firm, Dane Torpe at 175 Federal Street in Boston. Here representing the applicant B.P.G. on Orange. Mr. Michael Lembo is also on the line as well as the project designer, Mr. Ivan Hernandez. Madam Chair, this is a project that seeks to build a new two-family duplex home on a currently vacant lot at 29 Orange Street in Rosendale. I'll just give you some of the procedural history on this matter, Madam Chair, because I know we're in a rediscussion. And as you know, this matter was previously deferred, but specifically in 2022, the applicant filed for impairment to construct these two townhouses. And on January 31st, 23, the project received two variances to move forward, but it was time to actually pick up that permit because of some procedural issues and some additional review that was acquired. The builder and ISD determined that it was best that if the permit application would be refiled. So in October of 23, the permit was refiled, and that's the permit that we're here to discuss today. On November 8th, 2023, and the butter's meeting was held, the project was discussed, and feedback was received, and the main issues there were parking configuration. The previous design had an additional curb cut for a second driveway, and then also green space in the front yard was a priority issue. So hearing was scheduled on December 5th. We requested a deferral of that hearing to continue the community process. Hearing was scheduled on January 9th, we requested a deferral so that we could complete the revised plans, and it's those revised plans that are up on the screen now, Madam Chair. They now include much requested green space in the front yard, you can see from the slide that's there, as it's only one entrance in the front now with green space to the left and the right of those staircases, that staircase, and then also that additional curb cut was eliminated from the plans as well as the other driveway. So as a result, we are here seeking variances for three violations. The first is insufficient parking. The requirement is two spaces per unit, and we have one space per unit, but that's largely due to the reconfiguration of the elimination of the driveway. Then our article 67 section 9, the requirement is 8,000 square foot lot. We have 6,600 square feet, and then article 67 section 9 again, the FAR is a max of .5, and we're at .64, which we feel is consistent with the structures in the neighborhood. So based on the redesign that occurred, and the extensive community process, the applicants now unaware of any opposition to the project, and we respectfully request your support Madam Chair and the support of the board for the variances being sought. So I'll turn it over to Mr. Hernandez, the project designer who can speak on any specific design issues, and I'm obviously willing to take questions as well, Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, may I call the testimony? Madam Chair, I'm Madam Chair. Members of the board, Connor, and I'm going to go with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office looked at deferred to the judgment of this board. We held them in the voters meeting on November 8th of 2023. There was a mixture of one resident in supporting proposal, another resident who had kind of raised some concerns that were confused about this project originally going before the ZBA, and then returning back, there was another resident who had some questions regarding parking and setbacks, which the applicant was able to answer. They did go on, I believe, to be in contact with the West Village Neighborhood Association. We did receive one letter of opposition from one of the abutters, citing concerns regarding the idea of additional vehicles being added to a very narrow street, as well as, I believe, the size of the proposal without elected deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Oh, go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Gabriel Cruz, the Councilor Peppin's office. In the council, I'd like to go on record that he is in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. May Mr. Stubbridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. As we well? Yes. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. McCohill. Yes. Chair, also, let's just the motion carries. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you again for your support. Thank you. At this time, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 1 PM. First, we have two companion casers. First being case B08, 149, 2536, the address of 116 Cambridge Street. Along with that, we have case B08, 1555. Sorry. 1555, 09, with the address of 116R, Cambridge Street. This will be Canada's case and if the applicant handle it, the representative will be included to the board. Thank you. Can everybody hear me? Yes, sir. Right, thank you. My name is Phil Solverman. I'm here for the Heritage Club. My client operates a marijuana retailer at 116 Cambridge Street. Making John is here. She's the principal of the company as well. Been operating for over a year with those significant issues. We're trying to do two things. The first thing is we're trying to remove a proviso in the original special permit. The original special permit required us to close at 6 o'clock on some days and 8 o'clock on Saturdays. We're seeking to operate until 11 o'clock on Saturdays and 9 o'clock on Sundays. The Boston Cannabis Board has already approved those hours, so that's why we're coming to you seeking the removal of the proviso. I would note also that the Charlestown Neighborhood Council has supported this request. The other reason we're here is the company is seeking to add a small piece to its operation by seeking to operate at delivery business. Same exact floor plan that we've always had. No new construction to be added. We have probably one vehicle. I'm not sure we'll ever get to two vehicles, but certainly one vehicle. Effectively, the administrative offices here would also be conducting sort of disfap services for that vehicle. And, you know, we see, at most, you'd see that vehicle leaving maybe twice a day and coming back twice a day. So not adding a lot of traffic either to the area. So I'm going to take any questions, but those are the two matters we're here on. Thank you. Questions from the board? Okay. Stay here and then, ma'am. Pull the testimony. Madam, say, amendments to the board, Sean Green, with the Office of Neighborhood Services. And a buzz meeting was held for 116.9 Cambridge Street on November 6, 2023. It was well attended. Since that time, this office has received zero letters in opposition in seven in support, including one from the Black Economic Council of Massachusetts. With that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Ma'am, try to have no raised hands, thanks. Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Ma'am, sir, I would like to move forward. I'll go ahead and motion the faculty. May I have a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. V. Lowe. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Mukoha. Yes. Chair Osloz. Yes. Motion carries. Ms. Goodluckson. Next, we have a B0815405 401 with the added as a 335 K Street. If the outcome end, whether that was done, further, we'll explain who the board is. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marante Business Address of 168 H Street for a floor south Boston. I'm here on behalf of the owner. Also joining me today is the architect, Kevin Moniz. If we could just elevate Kevin, I believe he's just in there as a participant. We can elevate him for a panel. It's just a case we have any questions for. This is a proposal to change the occupancy from a one family and a lodging house to a two family dwelling along with the proposal for a new curb cut to allow parking for two vehicles. The proposed design is staying within the existing footprint of the entire building in all renovations of the property will be interior. By way of history, this property has been operating as a three family and has been taxed by the city of Boston since 1987 as a three family. The proposal is located within an MFR LS subdistrict and the property consists of approximately 1,251 square foot lot, which creates these two violations with the change of occupancy, one for lot size, and the second one for additional lot size. Unit one will consist of two bedrooms, kitchen and a living room located in the basement in first floor. The basement ceiling height is approximately seven feet. By eight inches, there will also be two window wells for means of egress as well as a backdoor leading out to seventh street. Unit two will consist of another two bedroom, kitchen and a living room located on the second and the third floor. The proposal calls for a 16 foot wide curb cut, a two ground level off street parking spaces measuring at approximately 17 feet wide by 18 and a half by 30 feet long. We do have a violation for design and maneuver and areas. Also, we were cited for insufficient parking, but I believe this was an error as per the code. 1.5 parking spaces are required for any new unit of housing and where the occupancy is adding one unit to it, the requirement is 1.5 in the proposal calls for two parking spaces. We have additional violations for the side yard setback. This is a pre-existing non-conformity as the footprint of the building is not being changed. Therefore, I believe this violation was also cited in error. The proposed scope of work would not increase this non-conformity as all work under this application is being completed within the interior of the building while maintaining that present footprint of the building. Therefore, the applicant should have not have been cited for the above-mentioned violation in a few more that we're going to discuss momentarily. I just want to specifically address your attention to Article 13, Section 3 of the Zoni Code pertaining to those non-conformities. We do have an FAR excessive violation. Again, the existing FAR is not conforming at a 2.15. An occupancy is slightly reducing that FAR to a 2.12. Therefore, because we are not worsening that pre-existing non-conformity, a violation, we believe should not have been cited here. We do have an open space violation code requires 200 square feet per unit for a total of 400 square feet for this proposal. An occupancy has a total of 227 square feet. The violation is also pre-existing condition where it's not being worsened. I have read the BPA recommendation, which appears to be inconsistent with the previous recommendation on this same proposal within the last year. To clarify from the board, this proposal was scheduled to be heard by this board that the applicant decided to withdraw as he believed he could operate under the existing logging health license, which was factually untrue. Reason why the applicant is back in front of this board today. It appears that the BPA recommendation is based solely on the outdoor accessory use parking. I want to highlight for the board, currently, there is a fire hydrant. If we're looking at that proposed curb cut from the front, there is a fire hydrant to the left of that proposed curb cut and a handicap sign to the right of that curb cut, which prevents anyone from the neighbor from parking in front of the property where the proposed curb cut would be located. Therefore, there would be any adverse effect to the community if the curb cut was allowed. For this type of driveway is consistent with other parking schemes within this neighborhood. One thing I just want to leave you all on from my perspective, the actual violations that we should have just been cited for, a lot of size, additional lot of size, and design and maneuvering of the parking spaces. At this point in time, I'm going to pause and turn it over to the board for any questions or comments. Thank you, Attorney Spitz. Questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, committee of the best office of the overhead services. And a butter is meeting for 335 K Street, where it was hosted on January 11th. The meeting was attended by a number of other butter. The new curb cut was a concern relating to the availability of street parking. Egress and fire safety were discussed to which the proponent satisfactorily resolved. Office received three letters of opposition. Aside from previously mentioned, one butter is best concerned over a lack of single family homes in the neighborhood. The Gated Heaven neighborhood association submitted a letter of support for this proposal. At this time, our office is unaware of any of the issue of concerns with this application. We would like to give further address than ever before this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, as our members of the board, this is Laura. It's only down for Council office office. Council office would like to go on support based on through community process and good field compromises on both sides. Changes from previous iterations of the proposal include the removal of the lodging house destination to a two-family unit. With no alterations to the existing footprint of the building or the interior renovations only, the proponent would also look to provide two parking spaces. Council office, we respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors on any quality of life issues that might arise during the construction freeze. Thank you. Thank you. We have a raise hand. Okay. You're an unlawful man of emotion. Okay. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion for approval with the provisional for with the video review and video review. Please set attention to the closing the size of the court. Court, basically. Okay. We have a second. We are getting ready. It's just average. Thank you. Yeah. Mr. Gonser. It is. Mr. Mimlo. I'm going to vote no. I have no issue with the change in use but the parking. I don't think can work especially with a reduced curb cut. You need the width of both stalls for that. Mr. Layton. Yes. Mr. Eakin. No. I believe the request around use and other relief is appropriate but the issue with removing on-street parking is problematic in relation to the BPDH recommendation. Ms. McGau. No due to parking concerns as well. Chair votes yes. The motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Yes. Is there a scenario where we can split the relief to allow the use but not parking? Question to have here. Yeah. How there? I would say most likely no. Is it, are you saying just to change the use of the two dwelling and then no relief for parking? Correct. It could change the violation which they would most likely need is really cut that point because it would be in sufficient parking. Madam Chair if I can interject we were actually cited for insufficient parking and it was advertised so that wouldn't create any sort of additional parking if parking was eliminated from this proposal. That allows us at that point and that could be correct. Okay so I will put forward a motion to approve the change in use from one family slash logic lodging house to a two family and deny without prejudice the relief for insufficient parking and parking or relief. How's that? I think it would be a proviso, how near? Correct me. A proviso without parking. That's correct. Yes. Okay. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Second. Second. Mr. Steinbridge. Uh, mage, are there still any design of you? No, no, because no, it's internal. I don't know. It's internal. Okay. I just want to put it back. It's all internal. Okay. So sorry we're a design, Mr. Steinbridge. Was I welcome? You're welcome. Yes, thank you. Mr. Volacea. Yes, I think that this is a like motion sway, both yes. Uh, Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Mukohal. Yes. There are also votes. Yes, motion carries. Great. Thank you. Next we have page B0815553897. With the address of 29 high street, if the applicant can do it, they represent the problem from their explains to the board. Yes, thank you, Mr. Steinbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address. That's 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Crest City Capitol and the Alpheor Development in their principal, Svarek Andromila. Yes, and under Belpheor who are present today, as is the project architect Dennis Greenwood of Suzy Design. This is an application for like the new residential condominium building at 29 high street, the indoor chesters meeting wholesale neighborhood. The site is approximately 32,663 square feet and it's currently a vacant lot. The proposed building would be predominantly three stories with two small and centrally located four-story mesonene areas of just over 800 square feet each. And the building would contain 31 residential condominium units with 23 post-tree garage parking spaces and bicycle parking and storage and compliance with city requirements. The site is located within a three of 5,000 residential sub-district and Article 65, the Rochester neighborhood district. At 31 dwelling units, this is an Article 80 small project which went through a lengthy BVDA sponsored public process which commenced in 2018 and concluded with the BVDA boards of rule in November last year. During that public process, the project was reduced in size and scope several times and went through numerous design changes in order to arrive at a proposed project containing 31 units on a lot of over 32,000 square feet in the building, thoughtfully designed to implement density and design characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood. Five of the proposed units would be IDE homeownership units resulting in just over 16% affordability. Specifically, there would be one three-bedroom unit at 100% AMI, one two-bedroom unit at 80% AMI, a one-bedroom unit also at 80% AMI, a three-bedroom unit at 60% AMI and a two-bedroom unit at 50% AMI. This makes the AMI average for the 5 IDP units 74%. Again, these are home ownership units and not rentals. I'll address the zoning violations and the relief things sought over then, term of presentation over the Dennis Greenwood who will walk aboard through the architectural drawings. There's a violation attributable to the proposed multi-family use in a 3-Evzone sub-destricted course. We believe that variance is reasonable and in this case in the way that the size of the lot were related to the size of the lot, there's nonetheless violation on insufficient usable. I'm sorry, insufficient lot size for the 31 proposed dwelling units. A lot here is nearly 33,000 square feet, which is much larger, I believe, than a lot size of projects proposed with a similar number of units. There were a thousand square feet of lot area for dwelling units in this case. There's a violation for insufficient off-street parking and loading. 23 enclosed below grade parking spaces are proposed with 31 units, which we believe is a pair of reasonable off-street parking ratio and one which was adored by both the BPD and BTP transportation planners. That is the BPD memo point. So IE Street intersects with Hancock Street, a primary neighborhood connected to Dorchester Avenue, making this site very walkable to area restaurants and markets as well as to roam archnumer's bus routes and a 7-gill red line station, which is just over half mile away. There's a violation for excessive floor area ratio, but the proposed AARC year is nonetheless quite low at approximately 1.36, which is entirely appropriate in an urban context and necessary to allow for the reasonable residential use on the lot. Two high violations result entirely from the two small mezzanine areas on the BODYs booth, which will become evident when Dennis Greenwood presents the plans. The building itself is substantially a three-story structure rises to a height of the roof line of 34 feet, six inches, both of which metrics are code compliant. The in-sense centrally located mezzanine areas are just over nine feet in height, which trigger the high violation. There's a usable open space violation, which is delived by the fact that there's nearly 17,000 square feet of usable open space here, including a rear common patio, and under a balcony or patio for each unit, with only 40 percent of the total walk here being occupied by the proposed building's footprint. Over half of the log will be left unbuilt, because of the fact that many of the sites of chore trees are located in the rear of the lot in an area which is to be left unbuilt, most of the sites of chore trees will be able to be preserved with other new trees being produced as part of projects professionally developed site landscape plan. Those are all the violations that would respect to the zoning relief theme saw. I'll love turn to presentation of Dennis Greenwood for a green presentation on the design package. Dennis? Excellent. Thank you, George. Again, my name is Dennis Greenwood from Suzy Design Architects. George came a pretty thorough rundown, so I'll keep it brief on my end, but if we get off to the next slide, please. Yeah, perfect. So as George mentioned around the perimeter of the site, there's a number of mature shade trees for leaving those. We've done a lot of step, we've gone through a lot of steps to make sure that the site is beautified and we're maintaining a large level of landscape being outdoor areas that kind of engage with the street scape as well as providing a amenity for the residents. One key feature is that we have a central entry. We're broken those, the building into almost like two wings, we're looking at ways to break down the scale of the building with used bays and different projections and subtractive measures, which you'll see in the renderings. But through the center of that volume, you can see this is an entry. We have some visitor bike parking there, this is a covered porch area, and then we utilize the grade of this street itself, which drops down almost 10 feet along the front, the lot front inch. So we have access to what's considered underground parking, but in reality, it's almost at grade access. We can go to the next slide, please. On here, so this is a site point taken from the bird's eye. This is actually looking down at the roof plan. As George mentioned, there's either balconies or roof deck access for pretty much every unit, so plenty of outdoor space for each individual unit. Next slide. It's zoning summary. We can kind of, you know, again, as a broad overview of this 31 total units, we have 23 parking spaces. We have 44 bike parking spaces, a total FAR of 1.36. Next slide. Okay, so here we have the garage, the parking plan. So as you can see in the lower right side is a ramp down. It's a very mild ramp to get into this below grade parking area, because as I mentioned, we have a pretty large change in topography along the street itself. We have 23 parking spaces. We have 44 bike spaces in a dedicated bike storage room. In addition to those 23, we have a vehicular parking spaces. Next slide. And then on the first floor, you can see again, this kind of that axial entry as you come in right in the center of the building into the lobby area. We have a covered porch as you approach. Which you'll see is about coming renderings, but we have a total of 31 units, 14 of which are three bedroom units, seven of which are two bedroom units, and ten of which are one bedroom units. We could probably go up, yeah, keep going up. So the third floor, the upper units actually have access to private roof decks, which you see the stair there in the middle, obviously, unit 301, 302, etc. Which go up to the next slide. And then there's a small head house with a roof deck. So that was a violation in height that George had mentioned. So here you can see a rendering of the front of the building along high streets. So what we did, again, we kind of broke down the mass of the building at that front entry split between the two larger masses. And then we used a man-start roof to relate to some of the contextual vocabulary of the neighborhood, as well as make this look a little bit more like a two-and-a-half story building as opposed to a fall three story building. So there's a few things that are different, moves, health, breakdown, the scale of it. And again, on the right side of the screen, you can see that entry into that parking area. And next slide. And here's just a view from the opposite side for you. You can see the extreme, extreme bridge range where you're looking at maybe reutilizing some of the existing stone and ledge that was on the site to create a front patio area, creating a retaining wall on that that isn't adjacent to that garage entry. And again, you can see kind of the way we're utilizing base and balconies to create some more interest on the front facade and help break down the mass of that building by utilizing kind of a 12-foot wide residential vocabulary. And I think with that, we can open it up to any questions that may have. Yes, thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, may I speak please? Yes, sir. Yes, my name is Roberto Cardoso. I am in a butter to the Rose property. I live two lots away. And my issue with it is that they already came before the board. And the gentleman mentioned how it's an empty lot. It's an empty lot because they leveled the home that was there, which for my understanding from the Rochester Historical Society was an historical home, and they levered it literally in the middle of the night. So the same people claim it's an empty lot. Other ones who leveled the home to make it an empty lot. I think they were approved for 23 units if I'm correct. The lot hasn't gotten any bigger, so why would they be allowed to make 31 units? I just want to voice my strong, strong opposition to this project. It's going to add parking to a street that's already the snow emergency parking street. Whenever there's a snow emergency, everyone from Hengtob Street, and Bohn Street, parks on High Street, and you're adding, they're already across the street, adding as we speak, a 15 unit apartment building on the residential street that has a lot of single family homes in the 15 unit building also leveled to single family home, and they're wrapping a large 15 unit apartment building around my name was other single family home. So that building will not fit the street, not just the parking, but only because house that was on that street, two triple-deckers on High Street and mine, which is at the corner of High Church, triple-deck, everything else was single family homes or two families. And all these apartment buildings do not fit the footprint of the neighborhood, the parking is going to be ridiculous, and I don't understand how they were denied and approved for 23 units, and now they're asking for 31 units. What has changed that you would allow them 31 as opposed to the 23 already agreed upon? And one is just to say my strong opposition as of the butter and the neighborhood resident. Thank you. Thank you. This is my name, and I'll check. Thank you, Madam Chair. I got afternoon. My name is Quinn Bousich. I'm a senior project manager at the BPDA. This project was filed with the BPDA on May 6, 2023, and has successfully completed the article later review process. This project received a BPDA sponsored public meeting on June 13th, it was well attended. Ultimately, the CEPB-PA board of approval on November 16, 2023. The project received mixed support opposition from neighbors and community members and received letters of support from Representative WRL and former City Council Frank Baker. The BPDA continues to express its support for the project at this time. Thank you. You? Any other opinions? Sherry? And hi everyone. Am I muted? Yep, we can hear you. Can you stay tuned in and I just want to tell us if you're in support opposition for the project? My name is Sherry Jones. I live very near to the project. I'm the current meeting health health civic president, and I'm very familiar with the process. I'm glad that we're doing something with it, but what Mr. Cardoza said was true. It was so true. It's about being fair and not to take up the entire meeting. At the end of the day, I don't know why we're here, like right now, on this meeting, waiting for it to be approved or not approved, because if memory serves me correct that the president of the civic, at the last meeting, I thought we said and decided that after they've made the changes, they were going to come back and talk to us about the changes in more detail. They briefly went over it, but we have more questions and more details that never happened. So while we're here, it was 23. Now it's 31. We're still like, okay, so why are we here on the final? I would like to see where Representative War Ralph, right when, by the way, is there to see you, how Representative War Ralph was in approval without having a conversation with us? So I think that's an overstep on his part, and okay, we'll let him know that. So Mr. Baker, he did well while he was here, but now we have a new Ralph, which is Fitzgerald, everyone knows that. So I'm not a gist, but I'm not for it. I just don't like the process of why we here, when we weren't really considered, like, I'm in awe, like, oh my god, I got the letter, I'm here, I see the construction of all over the place with dark and dust and people blocking up the street, but the process was not done correctly as far as I am concerned. They need to come back to this. Thank you, ma'am. Can you please wrap up? Thank you. Just guard the other raised hands. With the remote, I'd like to just a brief response. Sure, thank you Madam Chair George Marancy. With respect to meeting House Health Civic Association, beginning again, I think in 2018, we began meeting House Hill, I believe we presented to them four, five times, at least the last time we presented was on October 18th of last year. Ms. Jones actually was not the president of that kind, the president was Jen Johnson, Ms. Jones was at the meeting. We presented this exact project, at 31 units at that time, and it was after that presentation of meeting House Hill Civic, and with the support of a councillor, or all the councillor of banker, that this matter went to the, went to the VPG board for approval. With respect to the structure that was previously on the site, there was a building there. It was the first parish church's carcinage building. That building's deed actually contained a provision that stated should the structure cease to be used as a carcinage. It must be torn down. The building and my clients' be built through the article 85 demolition delay process with the landmarks commission. The landmarks commission by vote determined that the building was not significant, and the building was demolished, but pursuant to a battle of the issues demolition permit in 2021. Thank you. I know the questions from the board. Hearing none may have a motion. Madam Chair, I will put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Yes, we will. Yes, I also like to commend the applicant on the amount of open space being maintained. We don't always see as much vegetation being kept so I'd like to commend the applicant on that. Mr. Langham. No. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. McAll. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we'll do case. We'll wait. One five five nine five six eight. The annuals were five in four Cambridge Street. If the applicant and all the representative are present. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Steinbridge. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Turning Jeff Drego. With Drego and Tuscana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here and behalf of my client, Stan Clevon, Naravodessa Capital, and with me, I also have Adam Glassman, who's the architect on the project. When you're looking at is a rendering in this photo of a proposal on an empty lot in the Austin neighborhood at 584 Cambridge Street to erect a new residential building with eight units and four parking spaces. Just by way of background, this project originally encompassed two lots and was approved by both the BPDA and the ZBA of 582 and 584 Cambridge Street. That project did go through our committee process. However, we won when we got to construction costs given the changes in the construction climate and the site prep that the project did not make financial sense. Second, to that, our neighbors along Gordon Street and Richmont had strong concern as well as the Austin Historical Society about keeping and maintaining the existing structure at 582, which is an existing building. Taking all of that feedback, we still did want to develop the residential lot. If he goes the next slide, Madam Ambassador, that would be helpful. The newest proposal was a scaled down version, which would only develop on the residential lot portion. The other building has since been sold and has rented as a three unit buildings. That building is preserved. There is also four parking spaces accessed through an existing driveway by Eastman. I will show you in a few slides. But just if you look at this aerial view and you look at the recommendation by the BPDA of approval for this particular project, it falls in line with the mixed use along Cambridge Street. So even though this is a three F portion of this district, you can see a different landscape. There is a number of the multifamily residential condo and rental buildings to the right of us as a mixed use building. There are some three unit buildings and then to the left, if you can see right on the corner of Gordon Street in Cambridge, there is a larger commercial building right at that site as well. So there is a mute, a mixed use. And as was mentioned in the BPDA recommendations, this particular area, which is a busy intersection, I will be a focus of an area potential for new zoning called squares and streets of which this would fall in line in Austin, right? If we go to the next slide please. And you can just see here, that's the existing walk on the right hand side, the existing building, and then the shared driveway with an existing curb cut in the middle of our cars and there are four proposed parking spaces that would go to that driveway and be out of the right. One thing, all of these things go to the next slide, Madam Ambassador. All of these units proposed are two bedroom units. They range in sizes from 9901 square feet to a little over 1000 square feet. So all similarly designed. They have cadios in the rear, where decks and we really try to adhere as much as possible to the zoning code for the setback. So we were able to maintain, and this is one of the earlier concerns that we heard from residents along Gordon, because they wanted to maintain the rear setback. With this new project, we have a 59 foot rear setback. A 130 would be required. We do meet lot frontage, a lot with front setback and the left side setback. We are slightly over on FAR, so we're seeking relief for 1.2 FAR. We are seeking relief for the use from multi-family residential and also parking. We do have four on-site parking spaces in the rear of the property and 14 would be required. It also is mentioned that relief should be granted in the BPDAs recommendation, also because this is directly in front of 582 Cambridge Street is a bus stop that houses the 57 and 501 bus route, making this great for transit oriented transportation, other than vehicles. Also, the side setback we meet on the left hand side were over. On the right, we are at 3.5 and 5 would be required, so we would need relief there as well. If we go to the next slide, please. I want to note these are all condos, proposed condo units again as well. We go to the next slide, please, Madam Ambassador. If we go to the next slide, please. Thank you. This just shows some of the digital renderings and elevations. We also, one thing we also heard is to keep a design that matches many of the buildings in the area with the roof design and front design instead of a block building. These are just the floor plans. If you could go to the next slide, please. I just want to get to the landscape area. As you can see, most of the houses line up in a similar fashion with a setback in the front of the building. All of that area will be maintained. Green space with trees. In the back, we do house four parking spaces, but we do have an area and back that is all green with trees and maintaining many of the trees on the site as well. With that, I can pause and answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Yes, hello, Madam Chairman of the Board of Mike Mendoza. Here are Austin-Bite and the Aeson for the Mayor's Office of New York Conservatives. We did host an about explaining for this project on the 13th of November 2023. No about to present the Austin Civic Association was presented to by the Southlakein and that they did choose to vote slightly in opposition with that said, related to deferred to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. I have a few ways to answer from seconds. Dr. Tony and then Matthew and Annabella. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association as the Office of the Day of the Wood Services stated that the membership vote was a slight in opposition. Those in opposition mainly cited increased density in the area, conforming to the surrounding neighborhood. Those who supported the project as a training Drago specified were very pleased that the site was not combined that it was a lot of to stay. It's two separate lots and the joining two or three family, I can't remember exactly what it was was maintained and we have a development of a vacant lot providing additional housing. The landscaping, very reasonable and appropriate. So, like I said, the vote from the ACA was in slight opposition to the project. Thank you. Annabella. Madam Chair and members of the Board, Annabella going through the Austin Brighton Improvement Association. We'd like to go and record and support. We think that this version of the project is more consistent than the previously approved project and we'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Mayona. Thank you, Madame Hambassola. I'm not chair members of the Board. This is Mayona Polaris, her percent in the carpet. Mayona Polaris. This is Mayona Polaris for the Carpenters Union. Would I do go and record and support this project? Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I put four motion for that approval. We'll be here in a minute. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Mimal. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Mucahal. Yes. There are also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you for our month. Next we have case B081548966. The edges of Stembridge 5, Boston, and the only I have is the out and the ground is on the present. What they're going to explain. Okay, there's a raise hand here. Second. Matthew. Are you here to give? Hello. Hi, Matthew. Can you hear me? I'm the owner of this property. Sorry, I wasn't clear on how to get into the zone. Okay. Sorry. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Matthew Pinino. I live directly across the street from this property. I have 56 Bostoniaves in Brighton with my wife and daughter. This lot is in a 1F 5000 zone. It abunts a 2F 5000 zone that is directly on the other side of Regal Street. This lot is 4,050 square feet. I can go through the violations I have. I have a violation for use. Obviously the use is a 1F 5000. I'm asking for 2 units here. The lot area is insufficient as it's 4,050 square feet. The lot size of 4,050 square feet is consistent with basically every other lot on the street. Our neighborhood is a real mix of single families and two families, even in the 1F zone. This lot directly abunts a 4,050 square foot lot that is actually 3 family home. So that's a lot area. I have a front yard setback violation which shouldn't be, I don't know why they called me on that. The model setback is consistent with 15 feet. I don't know if there was confusion because the house on Regal Street is on a corner and that's not 15 feet. They called me up for that. Then I have a side yard violation. The fact that the lot is 45 feet. I'm sending the house to one side. The side setbacks are 10. I have 8 feet on one side and 12 feet on the other to make for a driveway on the right hand side. This lot actually has an existing curb cut. I don't know the history but maybe at some point there was a house there. Nobody in the neighborhood ever remembers a house there but there are business and curb cut. And then the last violation is for rear yard. It's 30 feet and I would need 40 feet. These are two units on two levels, two bedroom, two bath units that will fit in nicely with the neighborhood. There are each above 1100 square feet. Just on two levels, there's no third story. It's about this. All right. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing done may I have public testimony? Yes. Hello, Madam Chairman. This is the board. Frank and Doza here. I'll also invite the A's on the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We did host an abouters meeting for this project on December 19th, 2023. We had one abouter and attendants who had concerns about traffic, open space, parking and density with questions about whether or not there would be traffic studies or studies about the impact of open space. The right Nelson improvements to association did vote to support and project and believe their presence on the test spy after me. With that said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. We'd like to thank. I'm sorry. Did you recognize somebody of this thing? Yes, my name is... I think you have two devices on that's causing an echo. If you want to turn one off. Right. Thank you. Okay. Can I phone three? Hello. I am. Who's at Antonona over 57 Bostonia. I have the property adjacent to the lot that is under review. I have some questions. Are in addition to the list I have already submitted, objecting to the construction of this property. I would like to ask of bring up the question of lot area insufficient and or as well probably used for bit. I don't quite understand why the lot area insufficient meets some kind of regulation or requirement. One of the questions I should think would be necessary to answer is fire cold regulations and whether or not there is space available between the house under construction or proposal and the adjacent property that I am in right now at 57 Bostonia. But that holds true as well for the backside of Regal's free property at 14 I think is the number. What kind of space is there available for a treatment in the event of safety in the event of fire. Another question that I would have and bring forward to the board is whether or not that lot under proposal is a subdivision of a property at Regal's free which formally made use of the proposal block as a backyard. Does a backyard have space enough for a whole new property of two family construction? I am not sure myself. I would doubt it. I don't think so. I would certainly hope not. But in any case my two questions are the question about the use or the availability of fire access to the property along the two sides of the proposal bill, the proposed building and as well the question of the subdivision which I think would be required to establish before any use could be made of this backyard. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Hi. I'm Hanna Bella. Madam Chair, members of the board. Annabelle Agamson, the bright Nostra new program associate. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Shut up. You're looking to get the testimony from this proposal. We'll see your hand as raised. Thank you. No, thanks. All right. No additional raise hands. With the applicant, would you briefly respond to the concern before we proceed? Thank you. With the applicant, would you like to respond? Yes. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. Can you hear me? Yes. Sorry. Okay. Sorry. Yes. So, briefly, the law has already been subdivided. It's a legal separate law recorded with the Massachusetts registry of needs. That answers those questions. And any fire concerns would be an ISD issue, in the city of Austin, you can build up to five feet of a property line with having no significant fire rating increases. That's a pack of questions. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion? Okay. Madam Chair. Good morning, Jenny. I'll make a motion for approval. It seems like the variance, variance is being sought our contextual with the neighborhood as noted in the BPD memo. Which point will we work in? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Lennon. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Mukau. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Yes. Yes. Next we have the case. Case viewing. One five six. One eight three nine. For the address of 500 West and Avenue. This is an R4080 case. It's the applicant hands over the representative. President. Mr. Secretary. Attorney Joe Hanley. Mr. President. All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, members of the board. For the record attorney, Joe Hanley. 28th State Street in Boston from a term of quality of Miller and Hanley. With me is Gary Hendren, who's the project architect. If perhaps the ambassador, Madam Ambassador, if you could elevate him as a panelist also with me is the principal representative of the ownership entity. 500 Western Avenue LLC. Ardo Garabedian. So Madam Chair in the interest of time, we're going to take you through this presentation quickly. And then we'll have me and Gary as the architect available to answer questions. So next slide please. You will see the site in yellow. 500 Western Avenue is approximately 33,000 square feet of land. It is unique in the sense that it is bounded on all sides by public streets, which we'll see. Western Avenue at the front, back in street to the west, along Richardson Street that goes around the perimeter and back. We are in the north section of Brighton. And the site is right now as 100% impervious. It's essentially a parking lot for decades up until recently. It was a gas station and my client, Ardo Garabedian and his family have owned this property for decades. And he operated the gas station and has since remediated that, the tanks are out in a 21e is finished. So now we're ready to propose what we think is a contributing residential mixed use development. Next slide please. So you'll see just quickly some existing conditions. The upper right shows you our property in the left and what is the approved and operating radius building, which is across back in street. It is similar in Heidenstale. It provides an important contextual support for our project. You will see to the right the intersection of McInstreet, which we're actually expanding and improving as part of this development. We'll get into that. On the bottom left is the site looking towards the east and again, you'll see all the impervious surfaces on an unimproved service asphalt. And the final view is from looking across the street. And that is to the health center on western Avenue. Next slide please. So we are in the new western habitat or the rezoning study area, which is a mouthful that the BPDA launched and was adopted by tech amendment for recognition back in November of 2022. We call it Wackersy for in order to be for an acronym. So 500 western Abbeyll see in the far left on the west side in red in the one C sub district of Wackersy. Next slide. So not surprising is Mr. Stembridge read in. This is an article, a large project that went through extensive scoping and guidance as part of Wackersy. We filed our L.O.I. for a large project review prior to the tech amendment for the recognition of Wackersy. And then our PNF subsequent to that and it was guided extensively through the BPDA process and with lots of community input. We are excited that we're providing will advance the values in the vision for the city for the future and for the neighborhood by creating more affordable housing that would otherwise be required on site. Also introducing opportunities for artists live work in a section where artists are prevalent population in need and to address some needs for district parking which we'll get into. The city's going to be removing spaces all along western Abbey's part of the corridor and there are businesses in the area including the new speedway and the like that we want to be able to support by fee paid parking as well as overnight parking for neighbors. We're really excited about the open space again I told you this is almost 100% in pervious former gas station use. We're contributing by putting a pocket pocket park in that is open to the public as well as expanding all of these sidewalks which are now inaccessible and adding 25 new street trees 15 of which are canopy trees full growth in an area that has none today and this will be an all electric lead certifiable gold. We also have PV solar on the roof for energy production so we are proud to be reducing the carbon footprint in adjusting the former environmental injustice that this site was written by with the former gas station. Next slide please. So this slide just shows you're not going to go through this on the right you can see all the meetings. We put this together to show you and you'll hear from some folks in the public I hope of all the two and a half years of work that we've done with the community and the result was the project that I'll give you a nutshell here you can see over in the middle column. It is 116 units 108 are residential on the upper levels we have eight artists live work units approximately 98 699 gross square feet for an FAR just under 3 at 2.99 and that is what's called for in Wachersey and that was a reduction as a result of this process. The height of 69 feet in six stories previously seven and what I think is most contributing here is we now have just a little over 50% wild coverage so vast open spaces setbacks and the like for this this new development and what that results in which you'll see down the bottom is 14,311 square feet of open space on the site that is again around 33,000. Next slide please. So I'm going to do my best to walk you through this real quickly so we're in a transitional zoning area both under article 51 for the Olsenbright neighborhood district. Majority of the site little little little more than half is in the CC one and that's at the front along western Ave and then towards the back we're in the three of 4,000 which mimics the context of the neighborhood and you'll see in the plans what we're doing is that's where the pocket park is that's where the setbacks are and we're recognizing that what we're cited for of course is in both zones as part of a combined development. Quickly uses in the CC one MFR at the basement and first floor in the feed paid parking accessory parking in artist live worker conditional uses. Dimensional the underlying zoning is one we are at just under three again consistent with the recently adopted recognition of Wackersey as well as for the height which is consistent with Wackersey at six or nine feet in the former underlying zone of 35. The front yard is a little bit there's some nuance here so we have three front yards the way ISD looked at this as we require seven feet on western Ave five feet on Richardson and 18 as 16.8 on Macon we have 20 foot setback on western Ave which far exceeds the requirement we're also exceeding the five feet with 9.4 on Richardson and we're just a little bit underneath the 16.8 on market on Macon Street with 16 and then it narrows to other dimensions but it's offset with the open space and the work that we're doing to widen that drive. All those uses are forbidden in the three F 4000 again transitional zone obviously we would need a front yard variance in the three F this is a combined development the FAR in the three F of which is part of Wackersey 0.8 and again we have 2.99 open space we far exceed in the CC one in the three F 4000 you would require 650 per unit we have a 3,350 square foot public park in that section as well as the vast new sidewalks and expanded public ground throughout the perimeter next slide please. I'm sorry, have we? Yeah, there we go. I was just waiting for the next slide. Okay, so you kind of see this coming into context here right? This is the ground floor plan you can see the artist live work in yellow we have a 2800 square foot urban market which was a big driver in Wackersey and from the community process as well that will provide convenience we have the parking and the loading which is successful around the rear of Mackin street and you can see the robust tree canopy the wide inside walks and that vast open space towards the rear of the site as we get into the three F 4000 next slide please. So just to show you this is in cons excerpt from the front on on western app we're really going to be a good precedent for the future we're investing in a new cycle track as part of this for the city we're creating a new curb cut we're investing in new curb cuts and pedestrian safety at Mackin street as well as Richard's in street and again setting that building back 20 feet for a robust public ground in a place that has none today next slide please and this shows you a little closer up at that intersection where we're widening Mackin street that is the section where we're next to the six-story radius building that supports our context and we'll allow for improved vehicular pedestrian safety next slide please. This this is intended to show you an excerpt you of the back I talked about this pocket park you also have some surface parking for the convenience for the neighborhood market and then you go down into covered parking and you can see some of the public amenities that we're going to introduce as part of the park and park that we work really closely with the BPDA on next slide please. So quick renderings this is the front view you can see the market to the front you can see the new street trees and the improvement on Mackin street six-story building active street front next slide please. In the elevation view from the front on western ab and from the side on Mackin street again taking advantage of that setback of the rear next slide and from the rear this is a straight-on elevation that if you go to the next slide we'll show you how robust an excerpt on the upper right that is the rear open space that is set back in the 3F 4,000 and that on the bottom is the elevation of the rear next slide please. Sections that show you how we're working especially with respect to the parking there are two levels of parking and I'll explain that in the next slide please. So for the residents of the building we have 59 residential parking spaces full EV car charging stations and that would be on the second level and that is for the 116 units as well as you have parking for visitors and the market at the surface which I showed you. The district parking this is a new concept that we work very closely with BTT transportation planning in the BPDA again all of the meters on western ab are being removed we're obviously investing in a cycle track and a new bus station floating bus up there and to mitigate that right now the neighbors see a lot of folks parking in their neighborhood we want to support the businesses in the area for short-term parking and this is something that was very well received both through the planning process and the neighborhood. Next slide. So Madam Chair I took you through this I in conclusion I want to thank you for the time that you gave me but I also want to thank both of the neighborhood groups that we worked very closely with mayor's office and the BPDA on this project we're very excited to bring it forward thank you. Thank you. Any questions from your board? Mr. Balsic. Thank you again Madam Chair. I couldn't balsic here from the BPDA this project was approved by the BPDA board on August 17th 2023 and as Attorney Handley discussed is located in the newly rezone western avenue corridor rezone study area. The one public meeting was held as well as two impacted advisory group meetings. The community NIH we're overwhelmingly pleased in support of the project as a composite the new zoning and includes higher affordability and transmission upgrades. The BPDA continues to express its support for this project and I'm just a statement forward thank you. Thank you. Sorry Tony. Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Tony does a draw representing the Austin Civic Association. We'd like to go on work it in terms of deferring judgment to the board. The membership vote was very evenly split between those in support and those in opposition. Those in opposition I think we're expressing some anxiety about the continued growth of density in the corridor in the western half corridor in the fact that a transit waste study has been commissioned by the city of Boston as Attorney Handley had mentioned could very well result in some on-screen packing disappearing and it's a it's a big pass through corridor as well. So I think the opposition was mainly concerned mainly for the corridor and how it would handle this additional traffic so to speak. Those in support very excited about the mix use of the project the height and density of the project and as Attorney Handley mentioned the 50% lot coverage so a lot of open space and again the opportunity to try to offset some of the walls on street parking we do have as development moves forward a growing business the space in the corridor in this community parking would be a great help to sustain those businesses that will be coming along so again we have a very split throat and we will defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Any other raised heads? Madam Chair and Abel Gomez from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go and recommend support. This project was presented a few times. They really worked with the community on dressing many of the needs and concerns and we are happy to approve it. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair I think Chair remembers the board of mine of the rest of her percent in the Carpenters Union on behalf of Congress of the Barbara Union. I would raise it as a little more prosidious boss and I want to go ahead and support. Okay. Do we have one for everyone? One more? More? McCray? Yep. Go ahead more. But afternoon this is Marna Pray from Council Braid and his office accounted for the Blank-to-Ball Records for this project. Thank you. Sean? Hi this is Sean McDonnell. I'm the landlord at the speedway across the street from this project. I'd like to go on that. I appreciate you offering the time to speak. I run a small business facility. The proposal to include community parking is very important to us. I think that we support this project and Argo has been a very accessible and just a receptive neighbor. Thank you. That's all I used to. No additional raise dance. Thank you. I know with that may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. This is a very well thought out development. Once a good community engagement. Thank you, ma'am. Is there a second? That can't. Mr. Stubbridge? Yeah. Mr. Blantzio? Yes. Is we low? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Ms. McCall? Ms. Ms. McCall? With us? I can't hear. Sorry. I'm not sure if you can hear me, but my vote is yes. Thank you. We can hear you. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. We're now to 1 p.m. for the co-ed by remand case. That is case B-o-a-a-1-4-3. 2-4-8-6. With the address of 46-0-n-burning-n-partway. The applicant and the end of the representative's permit. Okay. Present for the board. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Matthew Walko and members of the board. Representing the developer, Danny Moll and a manager LLC. I am at 1-1-1-art street in Boston, certain business address. This project was approved back on June 6, 2023. In essence, you know, that's why you buy this award and filed by ISD on August 4. There was a mix of support and opposition to the project. I'm a better appeal, the approval. And we are currently, before the special permit session of the land court. And as part of that process, we recognize that there were certain inadvertent omissions in the approval and the turn-down letter. Specifically, the property is on the Greenbell-Avole district. And the board had not formally addressed the conditional use from an aspect of the application. It had been mentioned before the BBTA. And it wasn't a board of rule memo that was just missed. And so in order to correct that, as well as two other citation errors, for example, the project is in the CC-1 community commercial sub-district. But the turn-down letter had cited the provisions of Article 51 and that had to do with the 3F 4000 district. And so the turn-down letter was amended on February of this year. And the Article 51 Section 17, dimensional requirement citation for the dimensional variance required is now been corrected. Also, the visibility across the court was omitted in the prior turn-down letter that has been fixed. And that is now addressed as well and that turned down as well. The also the prior variance had correctly cited and approved the variance for parking and loading for the prior project. So the specifically, as far as what was the oversight, favor call that the Boston Parks and Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission and their letter of May 6, 2022, provided feedback on this project as part of the small project review process. And we have incorporated all of the recommendations in the Parks Commission's feedback letter so that whether it was off-speed parking, loading concerns of the landscaping, meshes with the Leo Birmingham Parkway surroundings. All those different aspects of the project were previously addressed, but just for the oversight had not been expressed in the variance opinion itself. Also, as you know, statute 2020 chapter 365 mandates that the city support projects that encourage diverse neighborhoods that overcome patterns of segregation and foster inclusive communities and that the current building and the special circumstances peculiar to it are not conducive to complying with that mandate of this statute. For example, significant disparities in housing needs. This project will be able to provide 18% of the units to the IDP units that 7 units 5 would be 70% AMI 2. The IDP units would be 100% of AMI units. And so these would be addressed as well as part of able to overcome, you know, racially and ethnic needy concentrated areas of poverty and turn this into a truly integrated and balanced living pattern project. And so the judge retained jurisdiction over the case and demanded it so that this board could consider the oversight and amend it so that we could then go back to the court and see if we can resolve this whether voluntarily or in accordance with the legal process. Questions from the board? Yes, the demcher quickly. So I think I just want to follow through the G pod item. You're saying that that was addressed by the BPDA during the process is that the relationship of the May 6, 2022 letter. So it was addressed during it. Yeah, absolutely. It was left out of this out of the, it was addressed before the BPDA. It's in its approval. But for whatever reason, it slipped through the cracks and wasn't on the turn down letter. And then it, because of that, it wasn't included in the actual opinion as a citation. So that was just an in-advert oversight. And we reached out to the parties and it was agreed that we should retain and jurisdiction before the permit session of land court, but remand it here so that the court can, so that this board can consider the additional use aspects of the G pod requirement. Okay, so, all right, so that, so right, so you're saying satisfied and obviously I don't, I know we have the BPDA memo, I didn't look at it specifically for that at this moment to see if it captures the G pod, but that was the essence of my question, basically, I think that those things have been satisfied in order to grant that conditional use. And in addition to the other three items that are on their refusal letter, everything else that's on the original refusal, which it was granted are still sort of all part of the subject of the, of the project. This is just additional four items that were added. This is exactly the same project that was before the board and was presented and approved. And it's just the proper citation of the correct subsection of Article 51, where it should have been referring to the CC one requirements rather than the different district of 3F 4000. Oh, thank you, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, is there a motion? Madam Chair, there's a Ray Sam call items if you want to call and call the testimony. Just okay. Okay. That's fine. We can't. Okay. All right. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. Yeah, I'm the about that's, you know, going to co-op with them and everything. I guess, you know, I obviously this is going to just be six stories. I'm not it's going to be shadows and all that, but I guess I'll stick to what the violation is here. The number one on here with the off street parking and loading, they have 13 spaces for a 38 unit construction project. If you look on the street, the sportsman street and Wattley street, Mac and street, there's no off street parking available now. I don't, you know, on all the stuff. I mean, they need to make more parking. I know this is already approved. And I just, you know, I said this before. I just really wish they weren't building such a big building where, you know, it's just going to completely make my whole entire house stock. I'm going to be living in a black hole. But on these violations that I see right here, it's really just the parking. This is just they need to put way more parking and it is none now. And I guess that's all I can say. Thank you for your time. No, I'm sorry. My mind is also in the hand as well. Okay. Thank you. Well, then, Chair, the conference has seen who we just like to express our full support for this break. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, man, I have motion? I have motion. I mean, I'm sure it would actually be for my motion for proper. Of course you would. Is there a second? Well, Chair, I'll second that. You'd like to add adding more parking sauce will incentivize people to drive. Whereas reducing the number of parking will make the units more affordable by not having that amenity for every unit. And there will mitigate traffic concerns. Thank you. Mr. Stanbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This is me well. Yes. Mr. Langon. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Mukau. I'd like to echo Ms. Wewell's comments and both. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. We need some of you next time. Thank you. Bye.