 you you you you you eh Well, as a Mr Collins. President. Thank you. A reminder that we are a six-member board. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. We'll begin with case B-O-A 1622071. With the address of 302 Chelsea Street. And being a looking manager, I didn't ask the bill where. Any request for withdrawals from the. Other thrills from the South. At 20 last. Yeah, Mr. Secretary, I'm not sure. I know we're at the 1 p.m. section, but I'm on for reconsideration. Not for these matters. I don't know. Now would be the appropriate time. I was going to request an administrative referral given the six-member board. Caroline, I know we find to do that now. Yeah, we can do that now. OK. I appreciate it. Oh, Mr. Stembridge, it's the 540 E-Stird. The bat will be in the case of B-O-A 1552657. With the address of 548 E-Stird Street. That the nature of the poor being a six-member board, I would respectfully request an administrative to the. Oh. Is there a preferred time? We were in October. And the earliest available date would be preferred. Caroline, we could do October 8th or October 29th. October 8th, please. May I have a motion? Motion to defer to the board. In 30 seconds? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Is that a browser? Yes. Mr. Laylam? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you all very much. Nice day. Madam Chair, Mr. Stembridge, it's Attorney Lynn's three or two Chelsea Street as well. Requesting an administrative deferral. Okay. What? In October in preferences? End of October, effectively. Yep. Richard, we can do October 29th or November 19th. 29th is fine. May I have a motion? I make a motion to defer to October 29th. Is there a second? There is. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Brasel? Yes. Mr. Oingham? Mr. Ma'am. Ms. Miro? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. The motion then to case. We have. You have to be away. 161. 295. One. The address of 83 to 89 Daveng Shar Street. This is an RFO A.E. case. It's the applicant and the representative present. But they please explain to the Board. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Morning, Madam Chair. I remember the board Attorney John Faudini. on the behalf of STJ Devanchire Equity Partners regarding 83-89 Devanchire Street, the proposal before you. Whitney Sagan is taught Greenfell Director of Development STJ and Cindy Lee, a principal at MPARK and BARK Architecture. 83-89 Devanchire is with the Stembridge Stages and Article 80 proposal pursuant to the downtown Office to Residential Conversion Program, Iowa Program. The proposal is comprised of three buildings, 85 Devanchire Street, 258 Washington Street, and 262 Washington Street. These three buildings will be combined in view of one building going forward. The buildings are currently programmed as three mixed use buildings, ground floor retail and office space from the floors above. Always going really well until COVID came along and the occupancy of the office plummeted to less than 20%. So this pilot program was a great opportunity for this owner as well as many other commercial owners in the city. Our team is proposing a development to convert that office space into rental apartments for a total of 95 units. These units will be comprised of 29 studios, 59 one bedrooms, and 12 two bedrooms. The units along with the Mendy Space will result in approximately 86,700 gross square feet of residential area. The existing 15,798 square footed ground square footed ground floor area retail will remain as currently constructed and occupied. No parking will be provided on site and no as any required in the zoning code. The number of units will be offered at affordable rates. Sixteen units will be offered at 60% AMI and three units will be offered for vouchers. Additionally, five units will be offered as food to accessible and two units will be offered as carrying care residents. This work noting this project will require no exterior changes to the building. The only violation we had was our open space and that was simply from converting from office to residential. The proposal and others like it will allow for struggling commercial property owners to fill vacant space while at the same time providing much needed housing for the city, much of that housing being affordable. We've asked the opportunity to present this proposal and if there are any questions, Cindy Lee or I would be happy to answer them. Thank you. Thank you, Lieutenant Virginia. Any questions from the board? You guys selected a general contractor potentially yet? No, we're still right now, Mr. Collins, working with the lenders to try to iron that out. Obviously, it says a big mortgage on it, so we're trying to get buying it from the different parties. Don't we're getting close to that? And I have any contact with the number of units we've been talking to about that as well. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Well, that man, well, the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, the board, and I'm meeting with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the outings representation, this is a part of the Downtown Residential Conversion Incentive Program, which is to encourage residential building, excuse me, commercial property owners that currently have agencies to add critical housing stock that we need to the downtown area. This went through a BPA-led community process, and with that information, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no vacients. May I have a motion? Okay, motion to approve. Continue, we've been in the dining room. 30 seconds. I can. Mr. Restembridge. Thank you. Yeah. Better Vaza. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. He's a little low. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it. And next on this, we have case B-away, 159, 885, once, with the address of 88 to 90 B Street. We have to attend the representative. Yes, I go to the room. My name is Naivey. I am from Worf East Industrial Roof. You are the company hired to replace the roof and replace the deck. At this moment, we have already replaced the roof. And we're just waiting for the roof, for the deck. The deck wasn't existing deck. From my understanding, it's there from the original date that the building was built. And we're not changing the size of the deck. We're just replacing it as, as well as originally. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, members of the board, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process, office hosted, and the butter is meeting on June 25th at which no concerns were raised. The West Broadway neighborhood association is active civic group in this area. It shows not to take a position on this proposal. We're unaware of any other concerns at this time. And with that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Councillor Luffin. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I don't know any jumping in from to release Melisa. Because I would like to go record an opposition as a proposal is described as an extension of an existing roof deck. Because I would like to have a long record of opposed to roof decks due to style Boston having become a destination. But young people on the weekends. And the subsequent negative impacts and consistent quality of complaints for nearby neighbors are seniors. Persons with disabilities in your families about parties at all hours. Consulately respectfully request that the board be mindful of this ghost service. Echo for neighbors and civic groups throughout South Boston. And that they be taken seriously. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I have no additional vacancies. Okay. And to that, can you just confirm, are you expanding, is the roof deck going to be bigger or are you just updating it? We're simply replacing the original roof deck. So it's been there since the building. Same for the bridge. Same for the bridge. Same style. Same design, everything. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Is better browser? Yes. There's still hang them. Yes. There's very well. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. All right. And I think I guess, thank you. I think that's a wrap. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. I can vote. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.