 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Next we have groundwater conservation over my district case. Let's go to for 9.30. This is case B-O-A-167-0783 with the address of 18 on the World Avenue. If the apple can't handle it, they represent a book, but with the case of plain case through the boy. Good morning, the morning all. My name is Zach Frazier-Allen with the address of 200 Falcon Street in East Boston. I'm the applicant for this case, and I'm throwing in for the project architect David Freak. This project is under the G-Code Overlake District. We file their plans with Boston Water Sewer and receive a no harm letter on September 26th. From Sean McTee at Boston Water Sewer saying there's no harm to the G-Code District. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair? Yes, oh sorry. Not a problem, is there's an alley? Yes, we have one. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Summon Ali, Boston Rallow Trust, and we have both G-Cod lives from the applicant. Excellent, thank you. Thank you. Would that have a motion? Motion? Yes. Good, David. Okay, yeah, make a motion to approve. The Ross, that's not good. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bedabraza? Yes. Mr. Powers? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Chair Mochies, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Now, begin with the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. First, we have K<|pl|> asked at this point if there are any request for withdrawals of the drill. And yes, a reminder that we are five number voices. That 2.95 West first street. It was made for it. It's about, it's on the top of the 4th page, Mr. Stembridge, or second from the top. It's an article about 8.50. 8.50. I'm sorry, 2.95 Westbrook? Yes. So that would be case BOA 166 985 for the address of 3.95 Westbrook Street. Would you go ahead and find for us? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the record attorney, Nick Szezul, McDermott, Quilty, Miller, and Hanley, 28 State Street in Boston, seeking an administrative deferral due to the five member board. But also a quick deferral. We're just working on some changes in response to some of the neighbors on the ground floor of the project. Thank you. Next date, Carolyn. We can do February 4th. That would be great. Great. What time they have motion? Motion to defer this case until February 4th. Second. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stobridge? Yes. Mr. Bedabraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion to carry. See you then. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, 28, Aileen St. Westbrook's. Very good. That would be for case BOA 156 for the last case. On page 5 case BOA 164, 0872. With the adios of 28 Aileen St. You go ahead and explain, please. Thank you, Mr. Stobridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Pogini, on behalf of the applicant for 28 Aileen Street. In West Roxbury, we're requesting a deferral. As we had received an updated refusal letter on September 26th, one of the notices that were sent out for today's hearing originally, the original reference, the original refusal letter from June. So that has to be re-noted. OK. Caroline? We could do February 25th. That's fine. OK. May I have a motion? Motion to defer until February 25th, 2025. May I have a second? Or else is it again? Mr. Stobridge? Yes. Mr. Bocabraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Mr. Eiken? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. I do. I'm here. Deferral for 303 Summishree. So that would be for case B081671922 with the address of 303 Summishree. Go ahead and explain the training. Small. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Mr. Boca, the training director is small. I have a business address of 51 stops in rural rent, trick. We're seeking a administrative deferral this morning due to five member board. Everyone, we can do February 4th or February 25th. February 4th is 5. May I have a motion? Motion to defer until February 4th, 2025. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stobridge? Yes. Mr. Bocabraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Eiken? Yes. It will just. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Is good morning for 35 sit-in? Well, that would be for case B081671229 with the address of 35 sit-down. Would you go ahead and explain the report? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mary K. Campbell with a lot from Draco and Piscano at 11 Beacon Street. We are requesting a deferral just due to the smaller board. Can we give you December 4th or December 25th? December? Do you mean February? I mean, sorry. February. We don't want to wait about much. Mary K. We'll do the fourth. Thank you. Okay. Would that have a motion? Motion to defer until February 4th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stobridge? Yes. Mr. Bocabraza? Yes. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. See you then. There be any further requests for which all the deferrals are not due? Hearing none will be wanted to the next two. The next one is the second. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The second one is the second one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. The third one is the third one. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have T.O.A. 16722H4 with the adios of 431-439 panel district. If the applicant can do what they have represent on the present, will they please explain the case to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tascano, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. With me, I have Carlos Saleeb, who is the architect on the project here and behalf of the applicant for a project of 431-439H. The north end section of Boston. Just by way of background and you're looking at the existing building now, we are here really just to clean up the existing zoning on site. So this particular building, since my client bought it back in the 70s, has always had 14 residential units and two separate storefronts. Those storefronts currently have a retail office and a salon inside. The unit layouts have always been there. They're all separately needed for gas, electric, and water. Since my client had purchased the building, he went to simply pull a permit to do some work and it was discovered that somewhere the occupancy was just incorrect. Somewhere back years ago, this was changed to an 11 unit building with a child or children's center on the ground level, which he's never had any of that. All of the units are occupied. There are mix of ones and studios in the building layout as already existing. Building is fully sprinklered as well. So we wanted to come to clean up the zoning, obviously, and to change the occupancy. So the occupancy would be changed from 11 apartments to 11 apartments in the children's center and store to its actual layout, which is 14 residential units and two separate retail spaces on the ground level. This particular section of the north end has identical buildings up and down of similar height of five stories. It's an MFR LS district, so mixed-use type occupancy is common in this area, as you can see from some of the site pictures. We were cited for open space, just because of the additional units. That was already existing violation of street parking, obviously, the building will remain, so we're not creating any parking. And then retail use over 2,500 square feet is a conditional use in this particular section and because of the two storefronts, that creates that violation as well. The BPDA recommended approval. We did also get the support of new neck and non-opposition at new as well. And just, I know we have a picture of the floor play. The basement is common area utilities and then part of the commercial unit for unit two, it's the lower level for storage. And then first floor are the two commercial upper levels. And then second, third, fourth, and fifth floor, all pretty typical. They're all residential units inside. And with that, I can pause with me if you're answering any questions at the board, Mayor. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? I'm going to answer one question. Let's try that. As for clarification, looks like on the plan, you have your square footage of commercial as under 2,500 meters cited for additional use of retail over. Is there something? Is it over 2,500 square feet? I believe so Carlos. I know who designed the plans is on. I believe he's on as a... and can I test to the square footage? I believe it's a lower level in the basement for one of the units as well. I understand that. Thank you. I think that's the only way to make sure that the way the drawings are set up square footage is on the plans. And I believe it's also because there's a lower level in the basement for one of the units as well. Yes. I understand that. Okay. Thank you. I see. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor of Public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair. I remember the board. My name is Emma Jones. I represent the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Regarding 431 Hanover Street, our office will defer to the board's schedule in this manner. A community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting held on September 11th, 2024, which was attended lightly by two constituents. There was no major feedback from the constituents regarding this proposal. But there was some concern about the noise condensers on the top of the building for the air conditioning, disturbing some of the close by neighbors. The proposal was reviewed by North and Waterfront Residant Association and North and Waterfront Neighborhood Council, as Attorney Drago did expressed at their monthly meetings. At this time, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services differs to the board's schedule of this decision. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Mayor Chamiya, no raise hand at the moment. With that, may I have a motion? Mayor Chai, I put the motion of approval. Mayor of the second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Fowlitz. Yes. Mr. Eakers. Yes. Chai, I will let you ask the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next two cases have been deferred, so that takes us to case B.O.A. 159-0919, with the address of 12-22, the landlord. If the applicant is in or the representative of persons, would it put in case of pork? Mr. Eakers, are you raising your hand for this case? Yes, I am. Thank you. Please proceed. Madam Chair, I'm members of the board. Thank you for the opportunity. I am our activist, the architect on the project, with CASA Architecture and Construction, address of 79 Devon Street or Shester. Joining me is Madeline Delovas. She is the chief operating officer of Project 77, the owner of the property. Overall, this project is pretty straightforward, consists of renovating the basement of a three-time-way building into an apartment. They are building a lot of these in the city of Boston through the amazing ADU program. Our this project makes all of the requirements of the ADU program. The reason why we have to go through the CBA process and the community process is because the building is not on our occupied. If we could stay on this page for a second, the floor plan on the left side is blue-gill avenue that's the frontage. And as you can see, we're excavating an area way to the entrance of the apartment. The apartment will be good size of our 1100-square-bit, three bedrooms, two bathrooms, in-unit laundry, open kitchen living area, and we're also taking advantage of the grading. So the grading slopes down to the back of the property that gives us the opportunity to create a walk-out patio and take advantage of the natural light. As far as the parking, we can fit four parking spaces in the back of the property. Currently, no other tenants have a car, no other tenants that are in the building have a car, so the parking is not being used at the moment. The property is 0.3 miles from the modern street MBTA stations, as well within the transit point to the development threshold of 0.5 miles. And that will strictly allow us for infresidency as well as reduce parking. Now, we presented this project at the address meeting in June of last year. And subsequently to the Council office on October of last year receiving support in both of those. So subsequently to that, we presented the project to the GM and see on October 17th, who was a project following that meeting. We met again with the Council office on November 6th to discuss the concerns raised by the GM and to demonstrate that we're committed to addressing any concerns. Ultimately, we feel strongly that this party aligns with the city of Austin, goals to increase, bring more high quality housing. And we've successfully received approval for three of these in the past, very similar to the projects renovating the basement into an apartment. And two of them are currently on the construction. Now, this is the first one that we're doing in Madapen. However, there was a nearly identical project that, depending on the site, it was a tire site that was approved in May of last year. It's just a couple of blocks away also, Google Avenue. And the one thing I do want to stress is that while this project is not on an archive, it has been developed by a small, a minority and woman-led team. And Major League can certainly elaborate more on the values of the company as well as some of the operations. Personally, someone who has worked in real estate for over 12 years and have been able to call Boston home for over 20 years. And someone has found to know the project's 77 team closely and work with them closely. I stand by this project. Happy to take any questions. Can you confirm the forest ceiling height in the basement? Sure. If you go to the scroll down, like a couple of pages, we can see that. I think maybe the next one or the one after that. So it's in this one doesn't have bad ceiling heights. Yeah, right here. Okay. So ceiling height is 10 foot seven. And the lowest at the bottom of the central beam is 9 foot 8 1 1 2. So pretty good ceiling heights here. Thank you. Questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, may I put the testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Commander of the Community Change Agency Specialist for the Office of the Abroad Services. I completed the community process, which consisted of an abroad is meeting out on June 6th, with a few residents in attendance. No injuries or may nor force, no support or opposition was voiced at the time. On the project, then, with the GM and Cd greater medical and neighborhood council, where they voted to oppose the project state and the property is not only occupied and should be repatriated here to their current ADU regulations. They also stated the property has had several ISD violations. The committee mentioned density, parking and protestors and safety regarding the entrance sidewalk and driveway locations, believe me, the driver was inaccessible due to the inability for cars to turn into the driveway without hitting the building. The civic did go on to state that the proponent decides to add a unit to the top floor, then GM and Cd greater medical and neighborhood council would support the project. Thank you for your time on the mayor's office on neighborhood services. We'll like to defer to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board of Dullabecate from Councillor Bryan Whirls office. At this time, due to feedback from the Greater ManPan neighborhood council, the council are going on record and opposition. Thank you. Thank you. We have no raising at the moment. I'm sorry. I have a question. Laura Tolano. Toliano speak on behalf of Council of Flint. I think she's just asking to be a panelist. Sorry about that. That's okay. Are there any other questions? I do have a question for BPD. Has there been past projects that have come before us for similar kind of an ADU? A new conversion where it's not on our occupied and what was the result of that? Thank you, Ms. Bedavaraza. Good morning, everybody. Jeff Antid Cross and Planning Department. To my knowledge, nothing that has been labeled as an ADU, it's been simply a change of occupancy from a three to four. I know there is a huge push by the city at this department in particular to get these ADUs before the zoning commission and then to zoning as quickly as possible. So I think there might be a little bit of confusion, using the terms ADU versus a change of occupancy. Right. Any use of very specific, right? Great. So that's going to be my follow-up question. Since there's a change of occupancy from a three to four, there really is no requirement whether it's on our occupied or not. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisor that the project undergoes BPD design review. The second? Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Stembridge, I'm sure if I could interrupt for a second, this particular reason. You don't want the line removed. The reason why, because I think it's important to note that in our recommendation, we didn't see the floor to ceiling heights in building code issues, but the, the appellant demonstrated that, you know, he had more than enough in terms of height. Yeah. And since it's mostly internal, I don't know if we really need to do that. Okay. I just put that. I just flagged that because your plan reviewer noted a lot of details on. And I figure that they probably wanted to review it. So I can remove that. I'll leave it up to you. I'll leave it to ISD to flag any code. So I would like to change my motion to approval. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Haken. Yes. Next, we have case B.O.A. 161-546-R. With the address of 133 Devon Street. If the applicant will end or their representative of president, would they please flag the case of vote? Yes. Thank you. This is a party as well. I'm the architect on this party as well. I'll pass our architecture on construction at the sub 79 Devon Street. Thank you, everyone. The opportunity, first of all, to start off by saying that I will leave on the one street, that will be on the one street. About a year and a half now. So basically just to walk away from this project. We have the opportunity to present this project at the voters meeting on July 9th of last year. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. We have the opportunity to present this project. When Identaid is reviewed by Identaid is reviewed by Identaid is reviewed by Identaid. When Identaid is reviewed by Identaid is reviewed by Identaid. Ident respectable disability available so you can also call được. Ident fantactor on a phone to ask what our size was. Ident eatカイドクセيuve when it is held at able at the home. Ident be classifiedagna. Ident be classifiedmachenhyuna hai gashe morale fraoksi Doubs engegan peda applauds Twitter says, Putור of our fabric, Pack cod, and Pack cod. this street here are aligned with the sidewalk. Therefore, while we're proposing a four-story building, the top of the building in the front essentially aligns with the top of the ridges of both adjacent properties. And then as far as the design, we took hints from the two adjacent properties. They have a pretty consistent language with the pavement, those protruding bags, and also breaking the scale up on the third floor with the sort of like the overhang. And we took hints from that and applied it to this project to make it a little bit better within the context. Now, we could go to page four please. I want to zoom out a little bit and talk about the site. The project is approximately 0.17 miles from the four corners MBTA station. Again, well within the transit oriented development, maximum 0.5 miles that allows a little bit of hard density and reduced parking. The project also has an excellent once-whats for of 80. And if we could our little page four, it might be the next page four. Yep, we're in some. On the top left, there's almost like a site diagram. And if you can see the site there is outlined by a red dashed line, the top left. On the same street, thank you. So on the same street as you can see on the left side, there's some higher density multi-femal developments of zero-level line. If we scroll down a little bit, you can see what that looks like at the bottom. So this is actually on the same block, in the same street, just on the street from the project. Also on the other side of the property, just essentially a house away from Columbia road. There's some commercial properties. And one of the process is actually zone for multi-family. That would potentially be developed for higher density development. And this is why we build a project that's fit within the context of the site. Look at the parking. If we go to page five, what the parking is are? So essentially we're proposing five parking spaces in the back of the property that are top under the rear of the building. Now one thing we do have to confirm is we're proposing five parking spaces, but if we're not able to get a accessible parking waiver due to technical invisibility, then we may need to reduce that to provide an accessible parking space. Now one thing to note is that because of the grading, the decencies of a split-level design. So you come in, again, the first level is aligned with the sidewalk. You come in, that's where your accessible unit is. Also, package area, you go up half a story and then you are at the rear parking, you go up half a story again, you're on the second floor in the front of the building, you go up another half a story, and then you are at the second floor at the rear of the building. So this is a split-level design where you have half a story's difference between the front of the building and the back of the building. And if we could, I think at page seven here with all of the different perspectives, but I think it would be nice to see that the building would be like, it should be like the last page of this package. Oh, exactly. So this is what the project would essentially look like. Happy to take in questions. Question from the board. What's your front-yard violation again? I'm trying to pull it up. Yeah, I don't know, it's a good question. You're both, I don't see the liqueur zoning analysis. Yeah, if we go to the site plan, I actually do have a page, the site plan actually has a... Oh yeah, I see it. Okay, I just found it. So your front-yard, your front-yard, so you're required 20 feet and you're proposing a foot 16. I mean, the reason I call it out is because it looks very large and I can see why, perspectivally, it's very close to the front, to the pedestrian side yard. Okay, I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I'm a damn sure it's like to get understanding of the accessibility groups as the disability's commission requested. Is there a common... What are the common spaces? Is there a common fitness room? Other common spaces and are those all accessible from that first unit? Sure, so there's a good question. So one of the comments I remember was the road deck that we wanted to have that sure road deck. We were also essentially to provide an elevator. And so we got rid of that road deck for a number of reasons that being one of them. As far as the fitness room, that's something that we were hoping to have in the lower level. However, one of the comments from the building of the ISD was that we needed to extend the stairway down. And so we're looking at options to relocate that fitness area. So it is accessible by that first floor accessible unit tenant. Thank you. Yeah. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the bracket, my name is Jeremy Vimpery. I'm the Roxbury Community Incates especially for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abutus meeting out on July 9th where abutus boys note concerns. The project then went with Devon, nobody runs a association where residents trust the need for an off street parking plan. I hand the removal of the fourth deck. With that, the project received their vote of support. Still, thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to deport to the group, but, Richard, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, the sub-dollar bracket from Councilor Bauer or else office, with having support from community, the council would like to go on and record a support for the project. Thank you. Miss Lopez, are you looking to give testimony here? Your hand is raised. Alice, do you have any testimony? Is that applicant? Is that applicant? Okay, you have no additional raised hands. The moment. Okay, without the motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a couple of provisels. One, that the project undergoes BPD design review to make adjustments on the front and rear of the reflect so it is a little bit more contextual. The second is to redesign the parking spaces to allow for more open space to the residents. Third, to do site planning, design review, to provide landscape areas again to promote and create buffers along the parking area. And then lastly, to review the front yard setback. Okay, was that, is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. This bed of lasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chairwoman Ches, motion carries. Thank you. Next we have ga one six six two nine two two with the address of 993 high park program. Is the applicant in door they represent, hello, present would it please by the case of the board. three points. Can you, can you, sir? Hi, members of the program, my name is Juan Rohas and I'm helping my knee thighs with a process of applying for a change of usage from a non-compliant space to non-conditioned space to a non-conditioned space, met with ISD. And the only thing that they requested was the ventilation system to be provided by an architect and a checklist from them. We met with the city with the neighbors on February 21, there was no position from anybody from the neighborhood. And so that is all that we have, that's what we could present. That was the only question that he had about the ventilation. I mean, it sort of, it was on from a no-conforming to non-conforming as well, by workshop and else upon to being placed. Thank you. Any other, any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, cornering with the manager's office and neighborhood services. This time, the manager's office, like you defer to the judgment of the board, due to personnel changes, we don't have a lot of back information on this previously. And previously, so honestly, is on post and abouters' meeting. We have our records from October 31st to 2023. I know they were before the board didn't previously deny it. But they did not attend that hearing. Our office is presently unaware of any concerns. There's a number of other businesses on this stretch as well, without a friend of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Can I say, or this one? OK, we have no additional vacings at the moment. That may have a motion. Like a motion to a confirm. Very second. The roster's second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Dade. Yes. Sheryl, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Mr. Stonebridge. Next, we have case theory 159-0921, with the address of 1458, Gruegel Avenue. The applicant didn't know their representative present. But they're putting the case to the board. Yes. Hello, everyone. Our pass service here architect for the project. We've cast our architectural construction address of 79, the boss, street, and door shester. With me here today is Majority Delobs. The ship operating officer of project 777, LLC, get the owner of the project. So this project, it's very similar to the one we discussed earlier for 1220s. Essentially, the same project consists of renovating the basement into an apartment upon existing brick and brick project. And again, they're building a lot of these through the city's fossil of the ADU program, which is not what we're following, and what we are meeting on the requirements of the ADU program to serve a number of big horses, et cetera. Now, the eternal will be good size, around 1100 square feet if we could go to page five, please. We'll be three bedrooms, two bathrooms, in unit laundry, open kitchen, and living area. We're also taking advantage of, so in here, in this cold plant, the front edge piece on the left side, last Gruegel Avenue. And you can see the new entrance, the new area way to provide direct access into the apartment. We're also similar to 1220. We are taking advantage of the site rating. It slopes down to the back, creating a large guacamole with double doors and just taking advantage of natural light. Currently, this property does not have a wedding of site yards to provide a driveway. So there's no access vehicle access to the rear of the property. That will remain unchanged. This project is 0.1 miles from the Gruegel's MBTA station. And so well within the transit-oriented development, threshold of 0.5. We presented this project at the Abodders meeting on July 15th of last year. And subsequently to the Council's office on October 1st, receiving support from both of those at that time. We then presented the project to the GMNC on October 17th of last year, we'll close the project. Following that, we've met with the Council's office on November 6th last year to discuss the concerns raised by the GMNC as well as the demonstrate on the commitment to addressing the concerns. Ultimately, we feel strongly that this project aligns with the city schools to bring increased high quality housing in the city. And we've successfully approved for three of these already. The basement apartment of the station is essentially converted from a three-family to a four-unit occupancy. And two of them are currently under construction. We haven't done one in Manipain yet, but there was a similar one that I mentioned earlier, 1424, same deal that next year's thing, three-family, very similar to this one, existing three-family building, renovating the apartment into the basement into an apartment. And again, I want to stress that this project is being developed by small, minority, and woman-owned team. And I, as an architect, and someone who's sleeping in the bus in the 20 years, that worked in real estate for over 12 years, and knows the project team. I stand by this project. Thank you, everyone. I'm happy to take any questions. Questions from the board? Here on Manipain public customary. Manipain chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberley. I serve as the Maddett Pan Community Chain Day and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abuters meeting held on July 15th with noble voters and attendants. The project that went with Jim and Sydney Greater Manipain neighborhood council, where they voted to oppose the project stating the property is not owned or occupied and therefore should abide by their AD regulations specific to Greater Manipain. Jim and his also voice service concerns about pedestrian safety, again based on the proximity of the proposed unit entrance to the sidewalk and the properties driveway sitting, it does not own or have an easement to the land next door. We have received no letters of opposition or support at this time. Thank you for your time in the Res Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the court for the judgment. Thank you. Thank you. And much less, you know, what he's saying is at the moment. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is their motion. I made a motion to approve with planning to file a review in no building code release. Is there a second? I think David, hearing Jeff from BPD, he mentioned that we don't really need to ask for BPD design review. They started addressing some of it. You know, our concerns were that we didn't see any of the building code issues in the plants. However, the appellan has shown here that they are going to address some of the concerns that we had. So we really don't need design review. I don't know if I can just handle the building code issues. Okay. So just no really thank you David. Okay. With that, is there a second? A second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. There's better browser. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thanks, Owen. Next, we have case viewing. 1651349 with the address of 109 Beach Street. If the applicant is in, there's a representative. Please point to the board. Hello. I'm Erin Wise. I'm the owner of 109 Beach Street. And I am proposing replacing my front porch. My architect Charles Crowse is also in the call. Should the mask sit in Rosalindale? Oh, right. So our existing porch is rotted and falling apart. So we need to do something to repair it. And we'd like to approve our house and keeping with the neighborhood. We're planning on the enclosed porch that we have right now, making that a mudroom. But we feel that the open porch is more appealing and keeping with making the neighborhood curb appeal nicer. So we want to add a covered porch outside. We are within the setbacks. Our existing house is within the setbacks on the left and right. And we're proposing going out, I think an additional five feet into the front yard. And from what I understand, if there are two other houses on our side of the street, on our block that are also within the front yard setback, then it isn't a violation. Are there questions from the board? No, man. It's pretty straightforward. Here, none. I have public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bimbery. I am the Royal Zendil community engaged, especially for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which is sensitive on a boarder's meeting out on November 12, with very few of others on attendance. Two of others didn't voice support. The project was not required to go before any civic group as a fellow outside of any civic groups area. But there were letters of opposition, no support received at this time. Thank you for your time in the members of the Office of Neighborhood Services. We're going to support the board, then, Judgement. Thank you. Please, thanks. I have no additional Wednesdays at the moment. Thank you. Without me having motion. And I'm chairperson to perform motion approval. Thank you, Second. I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. The next case has been deferred, so that takes us to case B-O-A-167-3059. But the address of 279 North Harvard Street, which is also an article 80 case, and if there are the representatives, the applicant and the representative of the president, will they be able to do it? Yes, sir. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Excellent. Good morning, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair. I say good. Can I leave the corner? Yes, yes. Thank you. I'm sorry. All right. All set? All right. Good morning, again, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Joe Hanley. I'm a Tournament Quilty-Millen Hanley, 28 State Street in Boston here, representing the Austin Brighton CDC, as the proponent for this new senior housing development in Austin. With me is John Woods, who is the executive director of the Austin Brighton CDC, as well as Lucas Herring Shah, who is with Rodee Architects, and will take you through the presentation after I go through a brief overview here. So the site and the proposal, the Austin Brighton CDC has been serving the Austin Brighton neighborhood for 45 years now, thousands of individuals, almost 600 units, that they serve for affordable housing, for elderly and workforce individuals. And this site is an opportunity for us to, or for the Austin Brighton CDC, to address the need for senior housing, which is obviously a major need, not just in this neighborhood, but throughout the city. Next slide, please. So some of the project goals here, and you'll see on the left, the project site itself, along North Harvard Street, across from the PPL branch of the Hone & Library. And again, what we're seeking to do is to provide new housing for local seniors and allow them to Asian place in the neighborhood. And also, we're really excited that this is a restoration project. The site includes the Hill Memorial Baptist Church. And so that structure is remaining and going to be restored and paired with a development to serve, not just seniors, but also some community programming within the church building itself, which it has served for over a number of years, but lacks accessibility and other things. And we will have those upgrades as well. We've worked really hard through the BPDA process and the outreach process to mitigate impacts on existing neighborhood traffic. And I think what you'll see in the presentation is a really proud that we're delivering a superior product for our seniors with contributing architectural design and vast open space, but also targeting passive house certification for a sustainable development. Next slide, please. So just some existing conditions. View from the north on the upper left. This site is founded on three sides by public streets. As you'll see in the upper left, looking to the north, you're looking at the intersection of Coolidge and North Harvard. And the bottom slide shows you the intersection of Coolidge and Easton Street. And then to the right in the red, reddish hash. You'll see the site. And in support of the zoning, you have an existing nonconforming site that is obviously oversized quite a bit in its zone of the 2F 5000 sub-district. The site is a little over 26,000 square feet of land in that 2F 5000 sub-district. Next slide, please. Just taking through the project summary. So 49, you will see in the photo here in the aerial. Again, the fact that we are boarded on three public streets. Again, Easton Street to the right on your photo, Coolidge Street to the left. And the existing Hill Memorial Baptist Church to remain and be restored towards the intersection of Easton and North Harvard Street. You're proposing to create 49 units of all income restricted senior housing within this new development. And as part of the combined restoration project, the height is four stories. The proposed zoning height is 45.5 feet and the total gross square footage of just under 48,000 gross square feet. And the existing church is a little under 6,000 square feet and is being renovated and repurposed with amenity space, community space, and the addition, which we're really proud of, of usable outdoor public open space, which you'll see both along the edges, but also within the courtyard center of the site. Or resulting FAR of 1.79. Next slide, please. Just take you quickly through the zoning. We need relief in seven areas as I indicated before. The underlying zoning is a 2F 5000. Obviously, that is not its existing conditions. It's a lot of 26,710 square feet. We think that with both retaining the existing church structure and making way for much needed forable senior housing with ample open space that is supportive of the relief with respect to this unique property site. And we've worked through those constraints in a way to provide a contributing development. So first release, relief, excuse me, is for the MFR housing. Again, in a 2F. It's not a 2F use, but we are seeking that relief in order to provide for senior affordable housing. Also, the front yard, we have actually three front yards because we're on three streets. Seven is required on east and ten on Coolidge. And we have eight, a little over eight on North Harvard. And 5.6. And then a zero on Coolidge or a little over zero on Coolidge, which is where the available land is in order to allow for the creation of the affordable housing, which is then offset with an open space of almost 200 square feet per unit. So we obviously don't need relief for that. But we're very proud that that is driving it. Also, with respect to the rear yard, I'm sorry, 8.2 feet off in the rear yard, which is 20. The site also narrows as you go back, which supports that relief. The building height, three stories is allowed. We're seeking 435 is the height and limitation. We are proposing 43. I will note that the steeple for the church is taller than that. So existing conditions are supportive of that. As well as the off-street loading, we do have an accommodation. It's just not compliant dimensionally and programmatically. But because we are creating 15 parking spaces and we have a drive lane, we're able to meet the spirit of that requirement. And this board knows with respect to the parking, we are required. No parking is required under the new text amendment 154 for all affordable. But we thought it was important in working with the neighbors in the city and the community that there would be some accommodation here, especially for the demographics that are being targeted. Next slide shows you the zoning refusal letter, which I think I went through, and I'll be available to answer questions as it relates to zoning. And the next slide I am going to hand it off to Lucas and the team from Rode to take you through the presentation. Thank you, Madam Chair. Lucas? Thank you, General. Lucas Chair, and Chairman, with Rode Architects. This slide shows the site plan and building sections. As Joe mentioned, there is ample open space throughout the project, both in the public realm. Like we were moving the fence along North Harbor, Easton and Cool Street. The real purpose once in a moment is to public in a large public plaza. And there is also a more private open space to courtyard and towards the center of the complex, to get a reading room that is an existing church building that provides outdoor space for the residents. Next slide, please. Elevations of the project, variation in the material. As Joe mentioned, we are below the height of the existing church steeple. And we have setbacks on all sides. Presiding the building is more with three storybeat from the street, one line with the neighboring buildings. Next slide, please. And we have a series of elevations looking north towards the church. We can see that the entry forms are related to the build tower. And that the building's oriented sexual system back from the face of the church, both in the front and the side areas. Some separation from the church. Gone through the sense of process with the city agencies and preservation consultants. The safety of the church was important to the neighborhood and the community, the space function, I think is very important to the project. Next slide, please. Again, stepping back, breaking on the massing to really the neighboring buildings, and stepping back to the fourth floor to provide visual relief. Next slide, please. And on Eastland Street, scaling the building so there's more in line with the neighboring buildings and pointed back away from the street. So there's actually behind the neighboring residential building in line with the existing church to allow the province of the church to be maintained. And the neighborhood, I can't be preserved. Next slide, please. And just a view from the front, showing the space, so it's provided between the church and the new proposed building. Public closet that would be open to the public, out of the benches, and the covered space to protect people away from the bus from rain. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Lucas. And just in conclusion, we, as Mr. Stemper, indicated this was an article, a small project review, which was issued and approved, recommended for approval by the BPDA back in November. I would, on behalf of the Olsenbright and CDC in the McNamara House, who we are, who they are partnering with, just want to thank both community groups that were supportive and helpful. The BAA, the AACA, as well as our district city council, Liz Braden, who is instrumental in helping to direct us through the feedback and outreach process. And we're really excited to bring this restoration and much needed affordable senior housing project to our most vulnerable residents and Olsen Brighton. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This is, this is Tom Mayer's Office to defer to the judge from this board. As you have now, whose representation this went through a BPDA lead community process, but as the former Olsen Brighton liaison, I can speak to the fact that the Olsenbright and CDC has been looking at this site for a long time, and it's engaged with the community conversation for many years before you see the project carried today in front of you. They connected with the Brighton Olsen Approach and Association, which was very supportive of the proposal. They know of the Olsen Civic Association. They also secured a letter of support from the Brighton Olsen Historical Society that was very pleased about the focus on adding homes for seniors while at the same time retaining the aspects of the church as well and the architecture there. They had a community meeting with the public in late September, with me and the community expressing excitement for the projects. Many members expressed hope that a lot of Olsen Brighton seniors will be able to stay in the neighborhood with these new units coming online. I'll run aware of any major concerns without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I want to look at the first hand. Minor, are you looking at testimony? Yes, I am. We've more than 10 members of the board of mine, upper-estor, percent of the carpenters union. On behalf of our members, they know in the city with Boston, the one-of-ones, driver support in this project. And then with some compliance on it, we're going to give testimony. So they put that here to them. If not, I'll go to Theresa. Yes. Oh, go ahead. A couple of things. A number of that. Is this station name and address? Well, it was anyone. I own the property at 29-31, Coolidge Road. And I'd like to discuss a few things. First of all, it's Coolidge Road, not Coolidge Street. And I'm now interested in that you didn't get that right. The award about parking. You can put in how many spaces, 16. Can you just walk through your comments briefly? It's about a back and forth at this point. He can respond at the end. Okay. The Coolidge Road is a one-way street, which, for my understanding, what would have to happen, you'd have to go down eastern street or arm street to get to Coolidge Road. So you'd be going by, because my house is right at the end of the garden. You'd be going by my property. And we think that there will be a significant congestion issue. There would be difficulty. If you only have 16 parking spaces, we have residents parking on Coolidge Road. There would seem to be an overload of cars, and there wouldn't be much room for residents of that area to park. The lighting from the building, I'd like to know what that's going to be. Is it spotlights on the air? Are there emergency capabilities? What kind of lights will they be? The parking lot, we'd like to know what the entrance is and exits are, which streets. You know what's eastern, and we know it's Coolidge Road. The height of the building was stated to be 45 and a half feet. And then you stated that it was going to be 34 feet. So I don't understand that. The area is a two to three family, not an area. We're concerned that you know diminished the character of the neighborhood. You won't look residential anymore. This is a fourth generation house that I live in. We can live in, you know, I've owned the South for close to 40 years. My grandfather lived in it. My great grandfather lived in it. And we're worried about the rats. It's been a huge, there's a huge rat problem on Coolidge Road. You know, doing this kind of work, I think we'll create. Sir, can you wrap up your points? So, so far I've heard parking, lighting, garage entries, rats, height. Is there anything else? No, pretty much that's it. Look at it. You know, we're a product. I don't know if there's going to be anybody here. We didn't know about the meeting. We never got information about it. We finally cast this thing from the board of services, board of appeals. Zoe, we're going to need to ask someone here. My name is Zoe. I'm a project assistant in the development review division in the planning department. Here to express planning department support of the project. This project was approved by the BPA board on November 14th, 2024. It filed its SPRA on August 15th, 2024, and had a planning department host public meeting on September 23rd. And did extensive additional independent community outreach as well. We're happy to see this project move forward and progress in the design review phase of article 80 as well. Thank you. I'm actually a five edition. I'm going to Thomas and Tim. If you could provide us with new information, please help us to use the board opposition. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thomas Leonard, executive board member of the Austin Civic Association. I'm stepping in today in place of our president, Tony Desedorio. This project was presented in review during the Austin Civic Association meeting on October 16th, 2024. The project received significant support from ACA members, many of whom cited the need for additional income restricted senior housing in the Austin right neighborhood. The developer also worked closely with the director butters throughout the community review process, specifically the director butter directly behind the project, the late E family and have received support from the director butters for this project. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. This is Jane McHale. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Adgers and I'm for this help us to give and support our opposition. I am in support of this project. I am on the board of the McNamara House, which is advising the CDC about design and usage because we run 80 units of that. We are providing 80 units of elderly or portable housing in Austin down the street. We have held a number of community meetings and we have had very, very little opposition and we will hardly support this because there really isn't any, especially the senior community use. We have a senior center here in Austin and Jackson Man which provided some senior services is very limited in services because of safety issues and building. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning. This is Marble Cray from City Council of Liz Braden's office. I would like to go on record with strong support for this project and bring vital, vital affordable units to the lower Austin neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. This is Karen Smith. I'm a lifelong resident of Austin and I also, in currently the president of the McNamara House Board of Directors. I would like to speak to you and what I really like to speak to is reinforcing the need for affordable housing. The waiting list for affordable senior housing is often years that speaks to the demand and that's true at McNamara House as well. So we look forward to trying to alleviate the tremendous need that we see. In addition, we are realizing that as the age of seniors is increasing in terms of the average agent senior housing, we really need to look to the infrastructure and the ability for McNamara House to partner with the CDC on good strong programming. We would be a tremendous opportunity in a shame to waste it. We think the location across from the library will allow us to work even more closely with city agencies. So we are in strong support and look forward to making this a stellar housing opportunity that's affordable for seniors. Thanks. Thank you. I'm going to keep on mentioning it to the raised hands here. Are you? Okay. Get Bernadette in the garden. My name is Bernadette Lakey. I am a lifelong resident of Austin, Brighton. We are the immediate direct abouters to this project at 2325 Cooled Road. And we are in full support of this elderly project that they want to bring to this community in neighborhood. The project add to an already vibrant community. The residents at this living area and a local neighborhood can build meaningful relationships that enjoy social engagement. The plans that have been presented to us throughout this entire process has been unrailed. We've met plenty of times. There's been plenty of notices provided to everybody. And the project is going to be very comfortable, safe and convenient living space for our seniors. Residents will enjoy the convenience of having access to a great neighbors and shopped down in all additional services that they may need. We are in full support of this project. My family is on this property at 2325 Cooled Road and also the land directing a budding to the project for our 50 plus years. We have very close neighbors that are in full support of this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is Holden Lewis and Cross the street at 276 North Harvard. I'm largely in support of the project, which is wanting to point out that at the last meeting the design that was shown to us how to step back. Top floor on the building facing North Harvard Street. They maintain that on all other sides, but. With just a really flat, big imposing building. I thought it was really helpful to have that worth story step back that made it a little bit less imposing on what is now a fairly residential street. Though busy one. I echo at ease concerns around access to the building. Essentially eastern street in Cooled Road will become de facto streets and like driveways for the building, which will probably win if we're moving some parking for the neighborhood. I do have some concern about emergency field, the vehicle access and how that's going to be handled. That hasn't really been addressed in any of the public meetings, but. Not sure if it's too late to think about those things now at this point. That's all. Thank you. No additional reasons. Would that be good like to address some of the concerns that were raised? Yeah, thank you Madam Chair. I appreciate all the input and point taken Cooled Road, not Cooled Street. A lot of projects going on, but we definitely appreciate not just the direct butter support from the layhees and others, but. With respect to the gentleman's concerns. I think it is important to talk about the drive lane. We've been doing that. We spent a lot of time with BTD, with the city, with the BPDA and the neighbors to get right. So if you look at the site plan renderings and of that, it is in on eastern and out on Cooled Road. The gentleman is corrected as a Cooled Road is a one way. So it's precisely designed that way so that vehicles are going into the residential rear of that context of the area. And so with regard to parking, yet you'll see it there. So again, in on eastern out on Cooled. And with respect to parking, we have 15 spaces through the BPDA process. We were encouraged to do far less. So they were needed to be a balance that was struck. Obviously we have an affordable housing crisis, not a vehicle crisis in the city. But we do think that it could benefit from an appropriate a lot minimal parking for services, for visitors. And for those seniors that still have a vehicle and want to drive having said that. We've also integrated a number of transit friendly aspects, shuttle and bus in the like van service that can get access. Things that are really more germane to the end you see are with respect to the height. This is a public document that we submitted if I didn't speak. The height is proposed at 45.6. And I believe the existing steeple is around 53. But again, that's all in the pending documents. And obviously the height varies and the massing has been broken up. Mr. Holden had mentioned some of the front elevations along North Harvard. This project continues to go through BPDA design review and we appreciate his comments and look forward to working on that. There was also a mention on road control. We will have that as part of our construction management plan and we look forward to working with all the butters and all neighbors. Should the project proceed forward? The final thing I'd like to say is it's not accurate to suggest that there wasn't notice and there wasn't a lot of process on this. Myself, the Austin Brighton CDC, we take a great pride in the amount of extensive work we did in excess of what is required from Article 80. I think you heard that from Bernadette and the Laihi who are our direct to butters. In addition to the Article 80 process which requires a public meeting, we actually did two of our own butter meetings that we organized and invited folks over to the Hone and Branch Library. We personally dropped flyers and everyone's neighborhood and we communicated that through the District City Councilor, ONS and both community groups to make sure that we captured everyone. So the process continues and again I want to thank all of the butters for their input and I hope that that was helpful in response. Thank you Madam Chair. Other questions from the board? Hearing none is there motion? I like to say that this project is very commendable. It was really nice to see that the applicant received a lot of support from City Councilors and State Representatives. So I commend you for that effort. I also think that you are creating a huge community asset and impact and providing 49 affordable age restricted homes. It's very much needed in Austin and also in the Boston area. So there's a lot of really wonderful things about this project and its impact and for these reason I would like to make a recommendation of approval with a provider that you follow the recommendations from the BPD memorandum. Is there a second? Mr. Stepridge? Yes. Mr. Prowzo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Ward. I'm Mr. King and to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. to think. I'm sure that we are five number boards today. And also we will ask if there are any withdrawals request for withdrawals on the first from the 11th clock here. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Andre, I know you're on. Go ahead. Ms. Harry? Sorry I was on mute. I will request for a deferral as our plans were recently submitted and haven't yet been reviewed. What project? I'm sorry. What address? Sorry about that. This is 93.91 Howard Avenue. Okay. Last case of the year. Okay. So that's 1130. We're asking about 11. Sorry about that. That was 11. That's right. Hi, I'm Jim. Hi, I'm 1130. We're at 11s right now. I'm sorry. I'm 1232. Sorry about you. Okay. So sounds like you can proceed with the 11s. I'm good. Thank you. With that, we will first case. It is case B.O.A. 16658.89 with the address of 111.20. It's with street. This is also a lot for any case. And if the applicant enter with their representative or president, would they please respond to the board? Phone from Skick Charlesky. Good morning. This is Brett Benson from UTL. I think we're having a couple of our panelists join as well. Are you the one presenting or someone else? I'll be presenting along with Sullivan and Wester. Okay. So do you want to start? Morning. Can you hear me? Yes. I'm sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair. This is Gregory Samson with Sullivan and Wester. I'm here on behalf of the petitioner Skick Charlesky LLC. And with me, as mentioned, is Brett Benson of UTL. We are seeking relief for a post project at 120 Ypswich Street, which is also known as two Charlesky West. The project involves the construction of a new 28-story mixed-use building consisting of 48-400 residential units. About 24-hundred square feet of first floor retail space and associated site improvements. The project will provide much needed housing for the family neighborhood, including 68 affordable on-site units, along with the financial contribution to the family's CDC to support an offsite housing project. The project proposes substantial landscape of the ground and street improvements, including in all a new all-day year-round publicly accessible open stairway and enclosed elevator that will join Ypswich Street and Boston Street to create a more direct pedestrian connections to the Fenway open spaces and destinations. The project also proposes substantial financial contributions to the local and state agencies for parks and open space improvements. The article A, Review Process for this project, again in November of 2021. The applicant worked with the BPDA, the city, and local neighborhood groups for several years to find the project. Project recently received the PCDC Design approval in June and BPDA Board approval in July last year. With that, I will turn it over to Brett to walk through some of the details of the projects and then will summarize with some information on the zoning relief. We're seeking and then will be available to answer any questions. Thank you. Brett. Great. Thanks so much. Good morning. Madam Chair and members of the Board. Thank you for your time. We can advance to the next slide, please. So this is a very rich site. It's influenced by city scale, neighborhood scale, and also city block scale concerns. It's a site really has two frontages, one along Ipswood Street at a lower level and one along the back bay fence on an upper level. The existing building is beyond its useful life. It does not do a good job of addressing its surroundings, but it does, however, include a very well-traveled but poorly lit stairway, tucked into the neighboring building that provides a vital pedestrian connection between some of the vibrant activities around Fenway Park. And the open space of the fence as well as provide a shortcut to East Fenway in the back bay beyond. You can go to the next slide, please. So just zooming out to consider some of the citywide context. This site sits at the intersection really of two histories of urban planning in Boston. The first is a 19th century and well necklace, including the back bay fence. And the second is a 20th century idea of the highest fine concentrating height and larger floor plates along the turnpeic. And there are two different contexts really influence the massing and the materials of the building. Next slide, please. At the neighborhood level, this site, together with the Fenway Triangle where the pierce is located, was identified as a gateway parcel in the zoning code. And together with Northeastern's building age, these three parcels really form important gateway moments to the Fenway neighborhood and the back bay fence parks. And just like building age and the pierce, we believe it's appropriate for a finely designed and tall building to mark these important moments in the city. Next slide. In this diagram, we're documenting the various forces that have shaped the building massing the base zoning code allows 135 feet of building height. And the diagram in the upper left shows this height on the parcel. And our analysis of the site and also extensive input from the planning department's urban design staff and public comment. We adjusted the massing significantly to respect the setbacks from the neighboring buildings. And also set the taller areas of the building away from the fence to minimize the impact of shadows and wind on open space. Also importantly, the adjusted massing allows for the creation of a new public stair that's open to the sky and an elevator connecting a hip switch street with the back bay fence. I also just want to highlight our ambitious sustainability goals for this project, which include passive house certification and to look at one metric where out performing the city's greenhouse gas emissions targets with all electric systems and a very efficient building on the next slide. Because of the significant grade change, this building essentially has two ground floor plans. On the ground floor plan on Boyleston Street, you can see the public stair and public elevator that's within the parcel boundaries and negotiates the 14 foot grade change down to Ipswich Street. That's on the upper right of this plan. There's also a public bathroom located in the public elevator lobby that was a direct request from the community. Next slide. On the lower ground floor plan along Ipswich Street, we've included the residential lobby into retail spaces, loading for the buildings accomplished off street with access from a shared alley and there's no parking proposed for the site. Next slide. We have a safe improvements at Boyleston Street at grade with the back bay fence, use the materials and details that are typical of the Amronexpress parks. Next slide. And you can see that this public stair will be constructed of granite treads and risers. It also includes planting pockets and retaining wall to reduce the scale of the grade change and really try to better integrate it with the landscape. Next slide, please. The building is designed to maximize the continuity between the public stair and the public elevator lobby, so the stone materials of the stair continue into the public elevator lobby and a transparent glass curtain will provide views between the stair and the lobby. Also, at the base of the stair, we carved out the lower levels to really connect the stair with Ipswich Street and make it part of the public realm. Next slide. And just looking at the stair from further west along Ipswich Street, we worked really hard to make the stair feel open and connected to the street. Next slide. Then moving up to Boyleston Street, we really carefully study the pattern, the materials, the variety of the neighboring pre-war deline style to inform the design of our building along this frontage. Next one. And the Boyleston Wing and the proposed building is really carefully calibrated to align with the neighboring parapet and the brick and stone facade. Continue some of the major horizontal lines from the pre-war buildings. We've broken the facade into vertical days to continue the dominant architectural character along Boyleston Street. Next slide. And then moving a little further along Boyleston Street to the Boca Overpass intersection, you can see how the massing of the building steps back from the park edge as it gets higher. The lower Boyleston Wing is detailed with warm earth-tone bricks and sandstone to blend with the neighbors. And then that taller portion of the building is detailed with lighter tone bricks with projecting horses to create a more textured base where the building meets the ground. And then the taller section also picks up the theme of breaking the facade into vertical base with angled faces that will catch the light in different ways throughout the day. Next slide. And here looking at the building from across the muddy river in the back bay fence, the stepped massing of the building is probably most apparent. And each of these terraces landscaping on the roof decks will carry the image of greenery up the height of the building. Next slide. And just continuing around the building with a view from Landsdend Street, the tower forms a nice terminus to the street while the stepped massing allows for more distant views at the potential center. And then finally on the next slide, this is the view from the Boca Overpass coming from Storro Drive. The building marks this important gateway to the Fentway neighborhood in the brick in the granite primary facade materials to find detailing that we've done around the windows with warm tone metal panels. And also some of the subtle inflections in the facade and the penthouse to catch the light. We think are going to present a refined and kind of classic design that we hope that we think will pass the test of time at this important site. So on the next slide, we'll move into some of the details of the zoning relief that we're requesting. The list is here. It's for FAR maximum FAR out of nine. What we're proposing is 14.3. This is all within the gateway development area overlay. Maximum building height, as I mentioned earlier, 135 feet proposing 279.8 feet. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreedary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. The agreeary yard setback. Ilya Lalado. More commercials. More commercials. More commercials. Our cast as well. We'll try this on screen. Where's our community 동안 andCK the meeting. Akari, who operates in the which really significantly limits their potential for reuse. The site varies quite dramatically in elevation based on unusual topography with significant grade changes complicating the layout. And the proposed building, massing minimizes effects on the neighborhoods and has gone through BPDA board and BCDC books of approval. Next slide summarizes the primary public benefits. So we're addressing the acute housing shortage in the Fenway neighborhood, which includes providing 68 onsite affordable homes, which is increased from earlier submissions in the project. The project establishes a really important gateway to the neighborhood with removal of an outdated office building. And as I was explaining, it connects Ipswich Street to the Emerald Necklace with a really transformative public spirit elevator, as well as providing accessible public bathroom for Emerald Necklace visitors that's located off of that elevator lobby. We're improving the pedestrian experience of Ipswich Street with wetter sidewalks, new plantings and activities at the ground floor. And the project is partnering on the preservation of open space around the fence with a number of local institutions, including contributing to the care and maintenance of the urban tree canopy and the fence, providing support to stakeholders to develop additional affordable housing, and also providing an opportunity for local MBE or WPE businesses at the Ipswich Street retail location. And then finally on the last slide, this is a summary of the community benefits, which total over $3.1 million. So this includes both the mix of improvements that the project will take on as part of the construction, as well as contributions to government and nonprofit organizations to support the affordable housing transportation improvements, parks and open space, and the subsidized retail space that I mentioned just before. And with that, thank you so much for your attention. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, now. No, I do have some. I do have. Just trying to get my thoughts here. Do you know, thank you for that presentation. It was really great to see kind of the history of the urban design of the area and how your project tries to work with those two kind of urban languages. It was really nice to hear that. Can you tell me what types of amenities you're proposing for the project? Certainly so there are a number of amenities, both interior and exterior that are proposed on the Boyleston level plan. There's a major amenities space, so we'll have a number of the kind of typical residential amenities that we would see both lounge spaces, co-working space, fitness, and the like. And then on the upper levels where the building terraces and steps back will have amenities associated with the roof decks that provide the open space. So they're mostly not for public as for the residents? Probably yes. And in regards to, I know that you're not proposing any parking. And maybe the BPD project manager can help me answer some of these questions. You have your proposing 200 bikes. And I was very curious about this. Has there been any study that you're aware of or maybe BPD where you have large-scale residential living, such as this 400 residents, 400 units, and will 200 bikes actually be used? Because you're not doing a one-to-one typically, you would have to be required to do 400. And at what point in terms of scale, does it become ridiculous in terms of assuming that you're going to have 200 residents using bikes? And so I would love to hear a response because I'm seeing this on large article AD projects and the kind of square footage that it uses for the building. So that's a question for you and a question for the BPD project manager that was assigned for this project. Great. Well, not seeing the BPD project manager on the call immediately, I'll answer your question first at least, which is in addition to the bike room, we're providing two blue bike stations, one at Ipswich level, one at Poelson level. Oh, I see Scott Greenhall, who is our BPD project manager. And I think that's just after me. Secondly, this developer operates a very similar building just a block away called the Bon on Poelson Street. And they undertook a number of studies relative to the bike room that they provided and the number of bikes that are in that space given a very similar mix of unit types and sizes. But it was about a kind of two unit to one bike space was a comfortable ratio given both the surrounding infrastructure public transit, the blue bikes in this mix. And I see Scott on the line if you want to take it from a policy perspective, Scott. Thanks, Brett. Good morning, everyone. I'm Scott Greenhall, project managering the Boston Planning Department's Development Review Division. I think Brett said was accurate and we didn't negotiate with Brett and his team that with them not doing the one to one bike to resident or to unit ratio, we didn't negotiate an additional bike share contribution to the bike share system. Great, but have you have you actually studied with this higher density of residential living? How many are actually using in storm bikes and buildings? You know, given that we removed requirements for parking. Or I myself have not I can check in with our transportation colleagues because I'm not an expert in transportation or bike storage, but I can. I'm trying to understand kind of the impact rate in terms of what residents are using as most of transportation. And if that ratio is appropriate because the usage is is warranted. So if you if you can ask that from your department and let us know because this is not the only project that we're starting to see 200 300 bike storages. Sure. Yeah, I can do that and get back to you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, one other question I see in terms of the IDP is a percent contribution and Jeff or actually Scott, you can answer those. Why was this project not for you to the newer increase of IDP? I think it's now 17%. That was basically put forward at the end of this past last year in 2024. Yes, it's because the project that filed its project notification form and Jeff project impact report prior to the effective date of inclusionary zoning policy. That's right. Okay. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Any other questions from the board? Yeah, just one question. Jeff, do you know if your client has chosen a GC yet? I think it's premature to make that determination right now. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair and members of the board, we're following our Newman with the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayors also deferred to the judgment of this board. I just went through a lengthy community process overseeing by the Boston Planning Development Agency as well as input from state agencies as well. And a number of stakeholders were also consulted and connected. Many voices were in support of the proposal, citing the new housing units that will come online specifically the affordable units to 68 as well as the extensive community benefits package that will also be delivered to benefit the community. As you saw the slide benefits to existing structures that the Fenway CDC owns as well as to DCR and public spaces being made for the park's climate. There was a number of groups in support, including but not limited to the Fenway CDC, the Kenmore Business Association DCR, the BCDC. There were some voices in opposition, such as the Fenway Civic Association was opposed. The Muddy Water Initiative expressed opposition as well. These oppositions, opposition was mostly focused on, I believe, concerns over the height of the proposed building and potential impacts on shadows on the, on the Emerald Mclus and the Muddy River itself. I believe the Board should have access to all those other support matters on opposition that we've been able to serve without referring to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm Councillor Durkin. Oh, yeah, go ahead. Sorry about the good. Sorry, I've just been on for a couple I know it took a while to get to here. So dear chair, dong, and members of the Board, I would like to voice my support for 100 to 120 answered treat. Otherwise known as two trials get west. This project not only delivers affordable housing needs, pressuring our city in the Fenway, providing 400 units of housing with 17% on site affordability, but also brings up other host of benefits to the community through the collaboration of advocacy by my office and the public. Importantly, this products community benefits and mitigation package has commitment, student support and to support important goals of the city, including resilient parks, safe transportation. I've got all the access to business opportunities and our bus supply of affordable housing through this process. I advocated for the additional removal of two floors to provide protection to the parks. What we found by removing the two floors is that most of the shadow was moved from park land to parkway. We also I know that BCDC there was an extensive process and I think the design of the job related on is beautiful and we have the opportunity here to support not only the growth of our city in the Fenway, but we have an opportunity to support the process that this went through. Last year I sponsored an amendment to the city of Austin code ordinance is 7-4.10 also known as the parkways ordinance prior to today's board meeting. This was Julie passed by the city council and signed by the mayor, avoiding the original BPDA proposal to subdivide the proponents parcel and permit a proposed type of their parcel via the subdivision. By amending this ordinance we prohibited the proponent from a creative strategy to subver a compliance with the parks and parkways protections and through that I think we solved a 20 year disagreement on whether this was a gateway parcel. So I wanted to come to the ZBA today to give you that context. The greatest urban landscapes have proven that density and green space can and must coexist throughout the public review process. I witnessed the developer whose main guidance was coming from the public make design choices that created a livable experience around the building and create new connections to the back bay fenders. I urge the board to support this project today. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the boy Christian, some not only boss and brown like trust and we have both the key card lives from the applicant. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I want to go on the great importance of this project. This was a long and outdoors process and thanks to escape for hanging in the air and accommodating the community on their needs. Thank you. Hello, my name is Tatong Green, lifelong boss and resident also business agent with the Boston Brothers, right? We represent over 35,000 members and families. Also many of members and families who live directly in the area. We strongly believe that great projects help build strong communities, especially when you have an intentional focus on hiring a diverse workforce, women, people called residents and also paying attention to safety, right? Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Scott Green, I'm a project manager in the development or review division at the planning department. The component filed its project notification form for the project on November 5, 2021 followed by a draft project impact report on December 7, 2023. Between December 2021 and July 2024, seven public and I and G meetings were appropriately advertised. Are you in that? No, we can. The project was approved by the Boston Civic Design Commission on June 25, 2024 and the BPDA Board approved the project on July 18, 2024. This project successfully completed the article 80 review process. Thank you. Thank you. I want to raise hand scares. Edwin Edwin. Hi. Thank you. My name is Ed Quinn, a real safe project manager at Fenway Community Development Corporation. A neighborhood based organization working to preserve the Fenway as a vibrant diverse neighborhood. We also have representation on the IIG for this project. Fenway CC has had a positive experience with this developer on the previous bond project, both through the approval process perspective and how it's been an operated post completion. This if-which project site has been the long dilapidated site for some time, we feel that this project will be a great improvement to the existing conditions. It will also bring critical benefits in their bi-park system and add much needed affordable housing to our neighborhood. In their design of the building in adjacent street and park areas, they've tried to strike the right balance while preserving the financial ability before it. We're very happy to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Can you hear me? Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Pam Veal and I'm the president of the Kenmore Association and a member of the Impact Advisory Group for this project. For the record, there's been extensive public process and the proponent has worked very hard with the community to create a project that provides much needed housing and invests in important public parks. Accordingly, I'm here today to speak in support of this project and I hope that you vote in favor. Thank you very much. Thank you. Land. We can't hear you if you're talking. Declan? Oh. Thank you. No additional raise to your adventure. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the provisor that the project follows the BPD memorandum recommendations. And this is a really nice addition to see for our city. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. This is better. Yes. Mr. Collins. Sorry. Mr. Eakin. Yes, this is a well-fought proposal, especially for the unique circumstances of the lot. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case BOA. Thank you. Ask for 1130 for deferrals over the rules. That will be good idea, Madam Chair. Thank you. So we will ask if there are any requests for what we're all going to do. Yes. My name is Andre Barboso. I'd like to defer for 91. I would have new requesting a later date. I would have to defer for 93. 93. Yes, it might be 93. Sorry about that. That's OK. So that would be for case BOA. 161571 with the address of 93. How we have them. Would you go ahead and explain for it? Hello. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Yes. So we recently received the amended and the architectural drawings and uploaded to the housing department. Website we haven't received a response yet. So we're not ready to present at this time. Your turn. Just have a quick question. Are you aware of any additional zoning violations with the new drawings? They actually should decrease. OK. I would you defer for the 25th? I would say February 25th, just to give us some time and also zoning a review. OK. May I have a motion? Motion to be right down. I'd like to give you a minute. A very 25th. 2025. Second. Just average. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other requests for the 12 different from the 1130th? 8th. Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry. 8th. Yes. Please. OK. So that will be for case B.O.A. 162. 274. 23 with the address of 8 to 8 a. Austin Street. Go ahead. What? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Mariancey. Business address of 168. 8th Street. First floor. So Boston. We're here to request an administrative deferral. We heard in front of a full seven member board. We would like an expedited hearing date. If it is possible considering this is the second deferral. So we would like to be heard in front of a seven member board. Thank you. We can do every report. It works for me. I have a motion. Motion to defer until February 4. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Motion. Thank you. 548. East 3rd Street, please. That would be for case B.O.A. 154. 2657. With the edimus of 548. East 3rd Street. Go ahead and turn your off. Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is Mike Ross from the Well from the Prince of Elwyn International. Place. The zoning staff on this one required more time. It's process changes that were made to the plans based on comments made by board members and voices planning. Other last hearing. The plans are submitted. We're just waiting for the plan reviewers. Sign off. And for that reason, I'm seeking a deferral. We would be ready to present your next available meeting. We could do February 4. That would be great for me. I'm looking at Mr. Stammard, you read it to the record first. And I was that. So that would be for case B.O.A. 154. 2657. With the edimus of 548. East 3rd Street. Okay. We have a motion. Motion to defer until February 4th of this year. Thank you. Mr. Stammard. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Akin. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you all. 58. The act of street. Mr. Secretary. So that would be for case B.O.A. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 164. 193. 61. With the edimus of 58. Ash. Street. Would you go ahead and explain for us? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. James Christopher of 686. Architects with the business address of 104's road and brain tree mass. Requesting a very brief administrative deferral so that it may seek a full board. Thank you. Thank you. Please. May I have a motion? Motion to deferral until February 4, 2025. May I have a second? Thank you. Sorry, did I miss the second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Steinbridge. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Sheryl Boots. Yes, the motion carries. Mr. Eakin. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Is there a no further request for the draws of the thrills? Then what we have, we want to case B O A, 155, 2 to 90. I'm sorry. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. We haven't finished with the 11th. It's just please. It's just please. So it turns to case B O A 167, 7859 with the address of 403 to 405. Shamanep. It's the applicant and we're going to represent a number of the people who are in the court. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Jacob Taylor with Klein Hornigal, P on our addresses 101, Ard Street in Boston. I'm counsel to Inquinos, Boathequist and Axion, or Iba, a nonprofit community development corporation with a long history of developing and preserving affordable housing in the south. We're bringing this matter back to the board after removing a carbon-grade property. That's a significant, ground floor residential unit at 403 to 405, Shamanep, based on feedback from the city. The 405, Shamanep project is being undertaken as a component of the larger Cossus Foot Inquins project. Cossus Foot Inquins is a 36-unit scattered site of affordable housing development located at various addresses on Shamanep, Trim on street, Agro-Dia street, West Brookline street and Opton street in the south end. He intends to rehabilitate these projects, properties, and preserve them as affordable housing. In connection with this, EBA also intended to convert another project in this portfolio, located at 403 to 405 Shamanab, from underutilized office and community center use to five new units of affordable housing. We're now planning to continue the existing community center use on the ground floor of this building. The board granted relief with respect to the rehabilitation of the existing 36 unit residential project in November of last year. At that time, representatives of the planning department expressed concerns related to the planned ground floor residential use at 403 to 405 Shaman, and the potential for flooding. And consequently, our request for relief for this site was not approved. This element of the project has since been redesigned to remove this ground floor residential unit. The 403 to 405 Shaman site is within the MFR-7 district and ground water conservation overlay district. The development of the 403 to 405 Shamanab site into five units of affordable housing with continued ground floor community center use requires relief as follows. A conditional use permit under Article 32 section 4 due to G-Cottoplicability variance under Article 64, section 36 with respect to off-street parking, variance under Article 64, section 9 with respect to usable open space, and a variance under Article 64, section 9 with respect to the area ratio, since there'll be a small increase in accountable internal floor area due to building reconfiguration and a decrease in mechanical space. There's no change in building on-blow plan for the 403 to 405 Shamanab site, and the applicant has obtained Boston Water Suror Commission approval of a groundwater recharge system and approval letters on file with the board, as well as a no harm letter from our civil engineer to the list of rent. We note that our understanding is that the board approved the conditional use permit with respect to G-Cottoplic prior hearing, but we ask that this approval be incorporated into the relief requested today, so the record is clear. Ebay is held a number of community meetings with neighbors and the butters, and as you see positive feedback regarding this proposed project. And with that, if there's no question for this time, I'll turn it over to Jason DeLong of Ebay to provide a little more background on Ebay and on this project. Thank you, Jacob. Good morning, and thank you all for your time today. My name is Jason DeLong, and I am the director of facilities for Ebay. Ebay has been an integral part of the South End since 1968, and has a nationally recognized community development corporation dedicated to empowering individuals and families to improve their lives and achieve socio-economic mobility through high quality affordable housing, education, financial and resident empowerment, and arts programs. Ebay currently has 667 units of affordable housing in its portfolio, along with five community programs, including early education, youth development, financial empowerment, resident services, and the arts. We appreciate the boy's previous approval of the 36 other units that are involved in this project during our last meeting in November. This project will create five more units of affordable housing and retain the community space on the first floor. We are very excited to contribute to the housing needs of our city and state during this time when it is so very needed. With that, I'll turn it over to Leah Shelly of Davis Square Architects to provide more background on the site and the projects. Leah? Good morning, everyone. My name is Leah Shelly. I'm an associate at Davis Square Architects as Jacob mentioned earlier. The Cost of Franklin is a project that's comprised of 36 existing units and five proposed new units scattered between 10 buildings in the South of neighborhood of Boston. Can you go to the next slide, please? You can see all of them on the map here. That 403 shaman is looking in the very bottom of the screen. Next slide, please. The building that we were discussing today with these slides is 403 to 405 shaman F, where we propose to convert the upper floors to affordable rental apartments and retain the first floor as community use. The current slide shows the survey of the existing building and its relationship to the existing sidewalk and adjacent properties. As you can see, the building is on the property line on all sides and located on a street corner with two sidewalks. The chart shows the highlighted zoning items, which we already noted earlier in the presentation. Next slide, please. The photos of the exterior show the existing masonry building looking on the sidewalk on two sides with two adjacent properties of putting it on the side in the rear of the building. There's a small section of the rear of the building that is visible from the rear common alleyway. Next slide, please. The FAR diagram shows the existing storage room that is being removed on the floor's two, four, and five, which will be added to the floor area of the converted upper floor into five residential units, the slightly increasing the FAR of the building. Next slide. The first floor plan shows the revisions that were discussed from the previous CVA meeting where we are retaining the community use at the first floor with the new residential lobby off of Shaman F and not proposing to convert the first floor to residential use any longer. Next slide. This last slide shows the typical conversion of the upper floor into five new two bedroom units, utilizing the existing stairs and refurbished elevator. Thank you. Let me know if you have any questions on this presentation. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have a question. You, for the applicant, has the Boston landmarks already done a review for the exterior? It seems like you haven't. You're not really making any modifications, but just wanted to make sure. Can you tell yourself in my marks? We have self-self-self-self-out landmarks. But we have gone through reviews with them and received all the proof rules for the exterior. We're just doing the only thing in this building is new windows, but mostly it's made some restoration. Correct. Okay, great. I was just trying to wrap my head around the BPD recommendations, but thanks for clearing that up. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have a public testimony? Good. Oh, still morning. Good, still morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Eva Jones representing the mayor's office to neighborhood services. Regarding four, three to four, five, shaman, app. Our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including on a butters meeting held on 1015, which was attended by 10 constituents. The primary feedback of this meeting was support for the proposal and also for what IBA workstores. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Blackstone Franklin Square Neighborhood Association, which convened prior to the butters meeting with other civic associations that are also associated with IBA's other projects. All civic associations express support regarding the proposal as well. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services deferred to the board's decision. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Laura, to the panel here from Consulate, please office. Consulate, please provide a letter of support to the board this morning. And we'd like to go and record support based on a good community process of feedback for neighbors. He would like to respectfully request that the proponent continue to work with the community on any quality of life issues that arise during the construction. Thank you. Here. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminali, Pastor Gromor, trust on you, Bo Chi, God bless from the applicant. Great, thank you. Thank you. And sure, let's say, come here, no additional raise hands at the moment. Thank you. Was that going to have a motion? Manager, I'd like to perform a motion approval. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Berrazo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. And I'm told we need to go to the 12th Peeingham interpretation. That's the minute. How we cause a permanent matter, Chair? I agree. Yes. I'm just on now. So let's do the interpretation. Sounds good. Mac Goen. Chair, if I may, it's Attorney Richard Lins. I'm just speaking with my client because it is a five-member board. I just want to clarify whether he's going to proceed or not. Can I get a brief second call on this, perhaps maybe, 10 minutes? So why don't we take a 15 minute break now, then? First. Thank you very much. Thank you. Recording stopped. Okay. Now, you all like to have them finish up tonight, probably. Yes. We're calling the Mr. Cano. Thank you. One minute.どう are we going to take a pair or two last? Last thing to do is to paint brown and to make it look good in the way of possible points. Mr. Aiken. President. All right, the floor is there as well, Mr. Sonsbunbridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. And we have someone who was discussing what the client about the interpretation case for. Well, Mr. Aiken, sir. Yes, Mr. Sonsbunbridge, it's Attorney Richard Lenz. Thank you. So, for the interpretation case, he tried to say, get it for 12 PM. That is case B-O-A-167-5-7-36, with the address of 123 to 125 for all street. Go ahead and turn it on. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Theport, the record. My name is Richard Lenz. I'm an attorney with a business address of 245 Sumner Street, in Spont-Hoston. With me is also Arthur Chu, who's now our architect of record. I represent the petitioner with respect to the matter with the board. If you can bear with me, just briefly, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Theport. I just want to make sure I set the context here. This has been back and forth before the board, several times on a number of potential interpretation issues that we were successful in resolving with ISD regarding G-COT. This project involves a small office to residential conversion at Broad Street, which includes the addition of six residential units in the building one on each level. When we have proceeded with this, we were deciding for G-COT originally based upon ISD's interpretation of the total cost of the project. And we have successfully resolved that issue with ISD, so that determination was ultimately removed. As we were preparing to finalize the project, we were then cited for G-COT again. The basis of that was that we were exceeding the 50 square foot threshold that Article 32 sets forth for purposes of requiring G-COT. I will say that I do recognize that we are a five-hour report. My client has made a substantial investment in this project, and we certainly want to proceed as it is costly to continue without finalizing this and getting to a CO. So my client is prepared to proceed. However, if the board is not inclined to understand our position where I would very respectfully request a deferral at that time, but I think it's important to board here where it's shown. So we can jump to slide four please. That would be helpful. So what we're showing here is the rear of the building. And there's actually two components to our PO here. First involves the G-COT interpretation. If you look at the back of the building, there are existing conditions including a platform that handled a lot of condensers in the cataclyl equipment. And this is located to the rear of 125 grad street. In connection with the conversion to residential, the requirement for additional egress was something that we had worked through with ISD, and ultimately with the board of building regulations of the standards. If we can jump to the next slide please. So it's part of our process with the BBRS, the inclusion of this egress on the back of the building by which fire escape was authorized. And as you can see, it is within the limits, generally of the platform where the prior location of the mechanicals was located. The only area that extends beyond where we're at with the platform is the stairwell that you can see in the lower right portion of the screen. And that stairwell is the only protrusion into the block area. And therefore, that would be the only area of the 50 square feet that come into question. We determine that that is well below 50 square feet based upon the extent of how those stairs exceed the platform. And therefore, this would be below the threshold for triggering G-COD in this particular case. So what we're asking with respect to the G-COD component of our appeal is that the board determine that G-COD in this instance only is not applicable and no conditional use permit is required for purposes of determining whether this is subject to those provisions. The second part of our appeal involves a little bit of a different issue. If we want to jump down to slide 12, that's our section plan. So in connection with the authorization by the BDRS, maybe slide 13, I apologize, next slide. In connection with our determination by BDRS to allow for the addition of the virus gate, one of the items of the BDRS had indicated that would make this permissible is to have an awning over the upper level, which makes sense for purposes of ensuring safety and to reduce the accumulation of snow, et cetera. That awning, as shown here in the elevation plan would be at or just below the highest point of the existing roof. In this sub-district, the maximum height limit is 65 feet. The building itself is already, I believe, a little bit over 85 feet. We're not proposing anything, if you jump back to slide 12, you can see in the section plan. We're not proposing anything that would be higher than the highest point of the roof. In fact, it would simply be limited to just off of the rear portion of building in the roof that's already existing. So in order for that awning, which the BDRS required to be included, to be added to covering the stairwell, we would require relief from the code for that one area for height. And the reason is that 65 feet again is the maximum height and this awning would be at around 85 feet which is the height of the building. That is the extent of the request that we're asking. We believe it's very straightforward. And as I said, in discussing with my client, we understand the risks of a five-over-four, but based upon the importance of getting this project completed, we do have tenants who are prepared to take out the leases with this building. And I do believe that the Boston Planning Department has made a recommendation to the extent where relief is required that they recommend it approval. I'm happy to pause there, Madam Chair, and it's ready to be recorded. I'll take you by their questions from the board. Yes, when you mentioned BBRS, are you stating that you met with board members there and they advise you to keep through the shared? But we actually had a hearing before the BBRS on the use. And I do have this but Raza, I believe, the approval of BBRS is in the packet by the department. Okay, great. I think you just clarified that you did have an indeed hearing and it was remediating. Okay. And the awning would be structurally sound. You would extend posts from this far five-over-stair is not something that is going to be kind of levered. That's correct. We have built in accordance with building co-requirement and BBRS indications. Yep. Great. I don't have any further questions. Madam Chair. Yep. Yeah, thank you. We did review the BBRS decision and it seemed to be straightforward to me from a building height standpoint piece. I'm certainly not involved in other building-code related items. But I think I'm still not 100% clear on where G-Cod is at this point. There was resolve to the now it is back and trying to understand where the compliance then lies with that in terms of moving the project forward. Sure. Thank you. And through the Chair Mr. Akin, when we originally were working through our plans with ISD on this project, it was submitted as an as-of-right project, the conversation that initially triggered interpretation was based upon ISD's determination that the cost exceeded 50% of the value of the building. Yes. I agree. That's right. So what ultimately happened is the BBRS entered the equation. The design of the fire escape was completed. And again, there's no setback requirement. So that is an as-of-right design. The stairwell that is the bottom portion that's shown in the slide is the only portion that protrudes beyond what the, I would say, the existing envelope of the building is. And clearly less than 50 square feet. However, the inspection services cited that as being a reason for G-Cy jurisdiction. We disagree because you would have to have more than 50 square feet in order for that to be triggered. Okay. I understand the explanation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? I understand someone from ISD who's here to speak. Mr. Williams? Yeah. I could speak. So I think everything has been described. Just to identify yourself. I'm sorry. Paul Williams, Assistant Commissioner of Plains and Zoning here at ISD. Everything seems to have been described fairly accurately, which respect to the height of the building. It was cited simply because the Zoning height for the area is 65 feet. So it was an existing non-conformeting. So that's why I was cited. But as stated, the existing building is 85 feet. But we cited it because it's an existing uncontrollable. But respect to the G-Cod, the issue was partly the footings of the stairs. My conversation with the Plains Examiner, he didn't have sufficient detail of the footings. And so he continued to cite the G-Cod. But as stated correctly, the original reasoning it was cited was because the interpretation of the construction of the building exceeded 50%. That was resolved. But I think that it was recited because it wasn't clear from the drawings of what the footings were going to be set. And that was primarily the reason why it was recited. Madam Chair, if I may, we do a photo of the footings which clearly showed up less than 50 square feet as well. If we wanted to jump back, I think it's either slide five or six. Maybe slides, there we go. Yeah. So it's a very small area for those footings that we're at. I think that's why he cited the G-Cod. Understood. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Thank you, Commissioner Williams, that really clarified your position. Thank you. I would like to put forward a motion of approval for the applicant request for the two issues that are presented in front of us in regards to G-Cod that it does not apply given the information has been presented and the other pipe violation that you're requesting a relief of the code correct. That's correct. That's right. It's a zoning code. So we would like to also provide a relief for that. Is there a second? Second. This is the number. Yes. This is better for us. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. I guess. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. I feel great that. And with that, we're going to turn to the cases for 1130. And here was the case. With cases to case B.O.A. 155, 2290. Mr. Stembridge, you still have a red street from 11am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, folks. We, we, patients. We'll take this case B.O.A. 1661825. With the address of 180 red street. If the applicant and what their representant or president, would they please explain? Yes. Good morning. My name is Chair and I'm a saldee. My name is Parking, but you're really. I'm assistant commissioner of assistant. So I'm he manager of my wife, one and we really appreciate the opportunity to speak to you all today. And I may allow to to me you so that I can prepless communication or what we have no, we have whatever you some of it so he can speak to the slides in front of you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. in preserving the character and functionality of our community. And we also recognize that our proposal for the Accessible Bachelor in Project was initially declined due to our perceived conflict with the local zoning regulation. And today I'm here to respectfully request a reconsideration of our project. And my goal is to explain why this Accessible Bachelor is absolutely essential for my needs. So I'm a person with a rare genetic disorder called Limgur and Muscular Distrophy. And this disorder has resulted in me losing my muscles strength all over my body gradually. I was an active sportsman, but from my early 20s, I've started losing my muscle power. So my legs and hands have become progressively weaker. We got into this property. We purchased this property in 2021. And then I suffered a fracture in 2022, which further accelerated the weakness. And our property here doesn't have full bathroom on the first level. We have a full bathroom one year at the second level. And I use a chairlift to go upstairs. And I use the chairlift. I still need some help from a person. It is either my wife or a personal care assistant. But due to my progressive weakness, even using the chairlift has become more and more difficult. So we now converted a family room into our bedroom on the first level. But still, we don't have a full bathroom the first level, which means my PCA is available one year, three days in a week. So those are the one year, three days where my PCA can actually lift me and transfer onto the chairlift. My wife is a very petite lady. She doesn't have the strength to lift me. So this has left me taking shower one year, three days in a week. And that's all we have been doing in the past two years. And therefore, having this bathroom will be absolutely essential to maintain hygiene and also to give the space that I'm going to need because of my progressive disability. I'm in the process of transitioning to a bigger power chair. Right now, I use a small scooter, but this is becoming more and more unsafe for me, which also resulted in a fall in journey and a fracture. So the power chair is going to be much wider. And the bathroom upstairs doesn't even have that much of a space. And at some point in time, I'll also be using a fire lift, which is kind of a facial lift because of my decreasing whole body strength and strength in the arms and legs. And also, I will be using a reclining shower chair, which will have to take shower in a flat position, lying down position. All these things require a six feet clearance, like I'm 5'11 in height. So if I have to lie down to take a shower, that's going to be a six feet clearance. And that is the reason for our proposal for an accessible bathroom, which will be parallel to our dining room. And for the dimensions of like fouring, 0.2 and seven feet in dimension. So this will be a completely alien-friendly, the dimensions are going to be alien requirements. And this will also allow me to use a bigger power chair and also the facial lift because of my progressive disability. And we understand this. My legs, the same black requirements. And I respectfully request the committee to consider my progressive nature of my disability and also the daily needs of me. And we also have a 10-month-old baby now. And my wife is, and as she grows up, I really wanted to make sure that she doesn't see me struggling in using the bathroom. And right now, we have about at the first level, we can't even close the door at the half-butt. So we kind of use a shower curtain, kind of a curtain to hide it. And very soon, our doctor is going to keep in. And I don't want to have any such situations happen. And that is a very important reason why kindly request the both to reconsider our request. And please approve our variance. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you for that explanation. We appreciate it. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may we have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board, Ziggy Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petition is completed. The OIS community process. We have asked the petitioner to distribute an informational flyer to the 300-foot albutt or radius, which solicited one letter of support from a direct albutt or no other comments or receipt. The phone and additionally presented to the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council, which is in support. And our Office of Neighborhood Services would also like to express our support for the relief. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and Madam Chair, we have no raised hands at the moment. Would that may I have a motion? I'll make a motion for approval. May I have a second? That can. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betaprasa? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Sure, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, I'm like the support. Thank you. This point, we will move on to the rediscussion schedule for 1130. And there we have case B08, 155, 2290, with the address of 27 dozen street. If the applicant is the representative of the present, will they please each find the case of the board? Thank you very much. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Cameron Merrill, professional office at 100 State Street, Boston, Massachusetts. With me is Peter Banco, architect on this project. You may recall this had originally been submitted seven months ago, and there was some confusion regarding the plans, which the Inspector of Services Department had sought clarification. It was then reviewed as of the last date, but unfortunately not included in the board's packet, which is why we are here now. Effectively, this was a previously permitted and approved by this board's six unit project, which had an unusual duplex at the rear, which it has now been determined will better suit the community, and is that looking to divide that duplex into two separate units without equipped facilities for each. This is a project which is fairly simple, requires no modification or added square footage. There's appropriate parking provided for these units, and we believe that this is a project that should be approved by the board. If you have any questions in particular, we're happy to go over them and discuss them. And Peter Banco can answer those questions. Otherwise, we appreciate your consideration. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing men, may I public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Vembroli. I'm the Roxbury community engaged as best as for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abutus meeting out on May 21, where two abutus did voice support with very few inquiries that were addressed during the meeting. The project that went before HPNC, High Park Neighborhood Coalition, excuse me, Highland Park, neighborhood coalition who voted to support the project under the condition of a staff history rent, for the newly created studio apartment as an 80% AMI rental property. Thank you for your time and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services will like to defer to the board for the judgment at this time. You're not sure we have no raising in set the moment. Here, with that, we have a motion. Madam Chair, before a motion of approval, there's the second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. And then with that, I will see you all next hearing. Thank you. Everything here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.