 Second is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that had adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2020. This subcommittee hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx platform. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Plus with our in-pust meetings, we will hear meetings from elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and then community members. In the interest of time, we will hear more specifically from Director Butters. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click that icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Members called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand prior to the relevant address as this will just cause confusion. This is a subcommittee hearing. If your project is approved, if there is consensus among the three members of the subcommittee, you do not need to appear at the hearing on Thursday. However, if there is not consensus or if there is a deferral, we will hear your project at a later date. At this moment, I'm just going to take a quick roll call, Mr. Fortune. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Ms. Barraza. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening. Good evening. So, why don't we get started? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the furloughs of withdrawals. Do we have any deferrals of withdrawals? If you do, give me the address please. Okay. I'm going to call the first case calling the OA 115 8994 296 Princeton Street. This is adding a green roof to a playroom area, basement, completing bathroom. Finishing space for additional storage. In relocation of the existing kitchen and bathroom on any existing floor print, second floor bedroom and bathroom remodel. Violations article 27 T-5. This is in the East Boston iPod article 53 section 52, the roof structure restrictions. Article 53 section 9, the 40th ratio is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the side yards insufficient. An article 53 section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, here I mute. Sorry about that. My name is Andrea Villanova and I'm the homeowner of 296 Princeton Street. I have. I'm trying to renovate the house doing some repair work and having some square finish floor area. I am not changing the footprint of the existing structure. It's basically the footprint staying the same. I'm just changing the roof structure. And therefore it's, it's basically. It triggers the roof structure restrictions and the floor area ratio. Man, can you hold on for a minute? Is this a one or two family? One, one family. Okay, excellent. And then so how are you changing the roof? If you go to the section, so this is the existing roof. Currently, it's the. So it on the first floor. The dining area is in the back. And on the second floor, the left hand side bedroom, it's about seven feet. So I'm trying to add. To that dining area, a second story. So that the bedroom key, the smaller bedroom can. And it's a big, bigger and actually usable. And that's why I'm changing the roof, the roof. Okay. And tell us about what you expect to do in the basement. I want to add bathroom and. I want to add a little bit of bathroom. I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And then I want to add a little bit of bathroom. And have a space in the bottom area to. To stay in. Okay. So let's ask you some specific questions about the basement. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height in that basement. The floor ceiling height is, I think it's a little bit over eight feet. I don't know. Okay. And we'll get to that. And what is the space? Is there going to be a bedroom, a kitchen? What's going to be down there? No kitchen. It's just going to be a, it's going to be a, there's going to be a bathroom. And. An area that someone could sleep in. So I think it's going to be a little bit over. And I think it's going to be a little bit over. And I think it's going to be a little bit over. While, while no one sleeps there, it's going to be most likely a play area for my two daughters. Okay. And so, okay. Did you have a community process already? I did. I had a butter's meeting in our had two presentations to the Eagle Health Civic Association. So, I think it's going to be a little bit over. So, I think it's going to be a little bit over. So, okay. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Paraza, how are the plans? The plans are adequate. And you're comfortable with having a possible bedroom in that basement. Actually, I'm not on the plans. It's labeled as storage. And where I'm assuming there's going to be a bedroom at the rear. And I think it's going to be a little bit over. It's. There's there's. So, Ms. Villanova, can you hold on until Ms. Baraza, sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. So, Based on your section. Mm hmm. I on 4.0. So, if you go to 4.0. I don't have a. Okay. Hold on. Hold on. I'm not going to. Right. So, if you go to 4.0. It's. It's budding against the foundation wall. Are you asking me to go to 4.0? No. We will. We are referencing it. And we will get to it on the screen. You know, when we. We are not a big fans of bedrooms and the basement, especially. There's a handicap plus in that space. We need to be very, very much make sure that there is a way that. That person can get out of the space. Uh, cleanly, and without any issues. If there should there be a fire or any other emergency. And that's why we look very carefully to see that there are bedrooms. I mean, there are windows. So, we know that it's livable. Yeah. So, those are here. Right here. I'm 4.0. If you can see. So, these are the issues we're talking about. Okay. Okay. Right there. You're seeing the basement unit. But into a foundation wall. I see. Yeah. So, one side. Right. So, if you go to your basement floor plan. If you go to your basement floor plan. Or storage on drawing. And then you can see that there are two. Two point. Oh. Mm-hmm. But any access to the to the rear. That's hitting a foundation. And then the last window. There is no egress window to re showing a window. Okay. Now hold on. So, um, man, we have the drawing up. Yeah. Where is you so we see the. We see the. We see the. We see the. The. And then on the right hand side. There's a storage room. And then from the mud room. There's a door to the bathroom. And then in the rear, there's a large storage space. Yeah. Hold on. Which is the proposed bedroom? So it's. It's my. I don't. No one lives with me. I guess. Like that won't be. She doesn't. No one lives. She doesn't. There's a. And then we see the. And then we see the. There's a. There's a. There's a. There's a. There's a. There's. The mudroom has windows which are the correct size by code but at the rear in a storage you do not have an egress window if that storage was to be turned into a bedroom. Yeah, I don't have that into a bedroom like that. Okay, excellent. Okay, thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon Madame Chair and members of the board. In a tremel with the Mayor's Office of Native Services, we would like to go on the recording support for this proposal. During the community process this proposal receives strong support from Eagle Hill City Association and as well we receive 24 letters of support from our buddies and residents of Eagle Hill. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary here we have those who what is as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, I do have one raised hand. Caller 6, 617-899 you've been unmuted. Are you here to give testimony for this case? I 617- Yep, we can hear you. Are you here to give testimony for this case? I'm without knowledge of what case you're speaking. Okay, so if we will, this is the- So be it your seat. Okay, can you hold your hand please? Thank you. Just press up. Start the delivery hand. Madam Chair, I have no additional. Okay, so Mayor have a motion please. Yes, Madam Chair, I'd like to put it forward a motion to approve with a design proviso BPDA design review and with no bedroom units in the basement. I will second that motion. Is I to amend support? So you're all set with that those two provisos. Okay, good luck. Sorry, I don't know what that means. Don't worry, just talk to somebody offline. Okay, we need to move to the next case. Okay, good luck. Calling an ex-case, calling DOA 114-1788-1187 Saratoga Street. This is the correct and existing code violation of a basement unit by removing the basement kitchen and door unit separations between unit one and basement and then extend living space into the basement area from unit one to connect directly into the first floor unit and remove the rear second floor and various tiers and construct a new exterior stair from the existing rear porch. The violation of Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Name and address for the record please. I this person didn't sign on for the pre-check-in. I also don't see any raised hands with this one. I'll hold it off to the side, Jason. Thank you. Calling an ex-case, calling DOA 11122-64789 Russell Street. This is an existing basement to create livable space, increasing ceiling height and adding to the building, grow square foot. The violation of Article 62, Section 8, Deploy the ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Ryan Patterson, 89 Russell Street. I'm the owner. So please tell us, is this a one family or two family? It's a single family. It's a single family and tell us what you're proposing to do. So we're we're busy. We moved in here just over a year ago now. We want to renovate the building and part of that renovation is finishing the basement to include a liven area and a bedroom down there with an on-sweet bathroom to sort of just I guess to accommodate our future family and family visiting from overseas. Okay, so tell us about the basement. Tell us what the floor to ceiling height is, what the floor to cell height is and let's and let's just start there. Sure. Right now the ceiling height is plus or minus seven feet. There's a difference of about an inch as you move from the back to the front and that's from the current floor to the underside of the joist. My hope is to get down to it for six adequate height. The cell height, sorry. I'm sorry, the cell height right now is around two and a half feet I think. So the cell height at the very front will be increased by that extra foot foot and a quarter and then the cell height. I can't recall the cell height of the egress window at the back but obviously that will be the code compliant or dependent on code. Okay, and tell us about that deck. Was that deck has that deck been approved or what is the deal because we noticed that it has a head-house? Yeah, that that deck's there now and has been there for as long as I can remember we're not we're not planning to do anything with the deck. Okay, Tom, can you just check to see if that deck can come to this board in the past or if it was just if it just appeared on the building if that's possible, okay? Ms. Brousset, tell us a little how are the plans? The plans are adequate. And you're comfortable with what they show in the basement? I'm not comfortable with the bedroom at the rear just with the fact that the window well is the only source of light in that bedroom. The sill height is noted on the plans which is you know correct to code is less than 44 inch height from the floor to the sill but the proposed egress well is very tall so it's about five foot six from grade. So I'm not comfortable with the bedroom at the rear but at the front there is adequate light adequate access to the to the front exit. Okay, okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Chair and members of the board. This is John Romano from the mayor's office in neighborhood services. We have received a significant number of letters to support for this project and we would like to go on record and support of it. Madam Chair, we have the secretary here. We have letters of support as well. Thank you. I'm sure I have no raised hands. Okay. Ms. Brousset, what do you think? Madam Chair, I'd like to put a motion forward to approve with BPDA design proviso and that the bedroom unit is not located at the rear of the building. What else second? I do support so this is a note to the applicant. Please make sure that you work very closely with the BPDA so that in fact if you're having family over there and the best and the safest place in that basement. Okay, good luck. Okay, thank you. Calling an ex-case, calling BLA 11666306 Wall Street. This is a new 20 by 20 roof deck along the new rooftop access to the hatch to access the deck. Violations article 62 section 25, roof structure restrictions. Madam and address, Fuller, I can please. Hello, this is Timothy Shean. I'm at 9 Wall Street in Charlestown on the architect for the project. Yeah, we want to put a roof a 20 by 20 roof deck access by a hatch on a roof on a single family house. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, get them. Sorry. Thank you. How would the plan, Ms. Varaza? The plans are adequate. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board. This is John O'Mana from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We've seen received one letter of opposition, but we've received four letters of support, including director butters and those support letters. And at this time, our office would like to go on record in support of the project. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have opposition letters. Okay. One support letter. So, I'm sorry, Edward. Yeah, Mr. Fortune, can you tell us very quickly what the opposition is based on? Madam Chair, what I can see, they're opposed to the roof deck. Obviously, sunlight, blocking the view into the bedrooms. The normal deck situations that we use. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to try to do have two raised hands. Caller five. You've been unmuted. That's a five eight five seven three seven. Would you like to give testimony for this project? I would thank you. I'm Brian Bartlett. I'm the home. Yeah, Brian Bartlett. I'm the homeowner at 6123. No, Mr. Shan is representing you. So we will defer to him. Ms. Ms. Ambassador, may we go to the next raised hands? Sure. Yep. I'm caller six. You've been unmuted. 617. Thank you very much. I appreciate that Madam Chair. I'm the director of butter, true number six. Walls should I remember seven Wall Street, Madam? During the office of neighborhood services meeting, the owner of attorney Brian Bartlett and his agents have stated bluntly that if they was all or nothing for this project, and as we can see with 622.25, they violate the setback, which says the purchase. Excuse me, sir. Tell me what your opposition is based on? Yes, I'm based on a 6225. It needs to be 16 feet back based upon the building of a pertinent is 16 feet lower. Additionally, to their saying the project was all nothing, they must also not be viewable from the street as per 62. Likewise, there must be removal from the side and from the rear for said projects. Also, it's true that Mr. Fortune has stated that there is a great concern regarding blocking of light. Okay. Okay. Looking into the room. Continue with. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Shien, can you respond to the issues that you've heard about theable from the street and the setback? Sure. You won't see it from the street because it's only going to be 4.5 feet high and I've got it six feet 10 inches back from the parapet edge. The requirement is that we hold it back a foot for every foot. It's above the roof service. So I know, I mean, I live on the street my whole life. You won't see it from the street. Okay. The other issue was blocking. I don't know how it's going to block anybody's light. It's just no, I got it. Drugs, you're up 12 inches. Got it. Okay. So anybody else to speak on this proposal? Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve. Excellent. Is there a second I'll second I motion. I, too, I'm in support. You're all set for that approval. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following an X-T, calling B-O-A 116 4273 2-LON wood place. This is for a new private roof deck for unit two, access to a hatch and a new set of stairs. The violations Article 62 Section 8, the Billion Highs excessive and fee, proposed roof deck exceeds the allows building height, an Article 62 Section 8 Billion Highs excessive and fee. May I address for the record please? Again, Mrs. Timothy Shan, I'm the architect for this roof deck. This is a two family house. This is for the people who live on the top two floors unit two. They have no outside space. They would like to build a roof deck accessed by a hatch. The roof deck would be 355 square feet. That's essentially at our neighborhood process. It was not a tent. No one showed up in the neighborhood meeting. I believe we have support from Mr. Romano from the neighborhood services. Tell us about the viewability from the street. You won't see it from LON wood place. You won't see it, but we're exposed to Main Street. We have a restaurant to the right of the building when you're looking at it from the street. So you will see it from Main Street. There's just no way around that. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Buraza? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Chair and members of the board. This is John Romano from the mayor's office in neighborhood services. At this time we'd like to go on record and support of this project. I'm trying to have no new hands raised. Okay. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a BPD8 design review on the area of the roof deck with special attention to the setback of the roof deck. Is there a second? I'll second that motion. I do. I'm in support. So you're set with that. Provise a Mr. Sheen. Thank you, everybody. Calling the next case. Calling the OA 118 480 810 Clam on Pock. This is a constructing new steel balcony off the third floor level. In plans at the kitchen of unit two, the violations at equal 64 section 9.4, townhouse, rural house extensions into the rear yard. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCas. LeCas last 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the project proponent. This is a rear balcony at the top level of the building. Here, shown on the section, you can see it is off the top floor in the rear of the building. And it is the standard six feet projecting from the rear facade of the building. Under Article 64 section 9, balconies above the first floor are considered a conditional use. And therefore we are seeking a conditional use permit for this balcony. So is this one or two family? This is a two unit building, Madam Chair. Okay. And is that deck bracket supported? The steel beams will come from the interior of the building. So there's no need for brackets. They'll be supported by the steel protruding from the interior of the floor plate of that top floor. Okay. And is that roof headhouse in place already? Yep. That was the building was previously owned by the New England Conservatory of Music. And before that was owned by a homeowner for 30 years. And during our Claremont Park Neighborhood Association process, it was confirmed that that was an existing headhouse. And we went to South and Landmarks Commission for repair and replace portions of what's up on the roof. And it has been substantially improved and has been approved by the South and Landmarks Commission. Okay. How how are the plans for Sparazo? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman, the Mayor's Office and Avalid Services, let go right to support this proposal. I counterpark conducting the butter's meeting on May 19. The applicant went on to the Claremont Neighborhood Association on May 27. This is the association chose not to oppose. The proposal meets the design of due standards of the BPA and the South and Landmark Commission. We received five letters of support for one letter in opposition. The opposition was based off of privacy concerns. Our office feels that this proposal fits in with the character of the neighborhood. There are numerous other decks and back porches on that alleyway. And we don't feel that this would be an hindrance to the neighborhood. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, as Mr. Newman just stated, we have those five letters and that one letter of opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have some hands raised? Frank, you've been unmuted. Have you heard of speak for this proposal? Yeah, I would like to offer you a quick name. Okay, next stage, your name and address please for the record. Frank, Q and L.A. 12, Chairman, our Lawson Massachusetts, your chair, your chair, your meeting for. There's an echo. I'm not sure if you're on two devices, but we can't we can't really hear you. Hello. And here's the cabinet. Yeah, there's still an echo, but are you on two devices? I think Mr. Durand is going in and out. I don't know if he can do. Go on Durand. Okay, I'll got you. All right, try that now. Okay, go ahead. Yeah, this is a privacy concern to me. I feel that this deck is encroaching of my experience. I don't know. There was no deck there. And now there there seems to be another deck that's being put, you know, this deck and they already have a deck below. So not too sure why they need two decks. When they're already playing about door space, I have one deck, one bedroom, one bathroom, and this deck will sit directly kind of, you know, adjacent to my deck. And then, you know, I'm not sure if they plan on having noise or people sitting out there, but, you know, to easily be peeking into my bedroom and my bathroom in addition to my deck. So those are my concerns. You know, definitely don't want that deck put there. And really. Thanks. Thank you. We just check what call is six six ones that are in my car. Madam chair. Madam chair. Madam chair. Yeah, we can. Hello, Madam chair. Okay, Madam chair. Listen, I have a problem because I have seven concerns regarding number six Wall Street, they're building on my building. My building was the first one there in mid 1800s. They have the plans on my building. Just may serve. We are we are done with that project. So we appreciate your input and your comments. Thank you. We are now looking at any comments for 10 climb on park. Okay, that's all I have for the raised hands. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion please? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review. A second motion. Sorry. Thank you. Mr. Fortune, Ms. Baraza, what's the design review to focus on? On the exterior. Okay. Is and I I tune in support. So you're set with that proviso. Thank you so much. Calling an ex case, calling B O A 116 6359 555 East Fist Street. This is a proposed addition new red decks and renovate the existing two family. Violations on equal 68 section 8 decide that is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Thank you very much Cameron Merrill on behalf of the applicant 100 state street, Boston, Massachusetts. Also present is Arthur Chu architect and Robert Wyzenberger owner. So tell us what's being proposed. Certainly this is a revision of a as you can see there the right side of this property to expand the existing two units which already exist on the property. The only zoning violation which has been triggered is a time before can you please take the time and tell us what's being proposed. What are the proposed additions? Certainly the first floor existing unit will be expanded into the basement where you will have a bedroom at the rear of the property and a bedroom at the front of the property. It is a sloping property that goes to the back. There will be a family room in the interior section of the first floor. And what's the floor to ceiling height and the basement? I'd have to defer to Mr. Chu who is present as well on that. Eight foot ten. Okay. And this is sorry I didn't ask this. Is this a one or two family? Oh it's a two family. Okay. The two family, yes. Okay. And then the other work is so so that's takes care of the understanding of the basement. What is the other addition that you're proposing? So the other addition is to enclose the decks which appear to be on the driveway side of the building and also expand the living space on the second and third floor going towards the rear of the property. However those expansions on the rear of the property will not exceed the existing setback except for the deck extensions. I believe there was a comment earlier about some trees at the rear of the lot. They will not be affected. Can you please stop? It looks like this building is an attached building. Yes it is. How will it look from the street? Is there a rendering? Is it going to mirror the other side or is it not? It will be very close. It already is not the same today. With the removal of the decks it will be different and that you don't have the decks there but it will maintain a very similar roof line entryway but it will not exactly mirror it. Okay. And then the other question is what will be the sizes of each of the units? It works like you. One is 1702 and unit two is 1670. Okay. And then what is required on the side yard and what are you proposing? So as you can see from this picture the upper level which is shaded blue will be built along the interior shared lot line and therefore encroaches on the setback of three feet by three feet extending along the existing non-conformity and that is the only violation on this property. Okay. How about the plasma sparrows? I don't share the plan sir adequate. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon Mayor's Office, Napert Services. I'd like to go and record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have one can raise it just one. Susan, in fact do you have the way to give support on this project or opposition? I'm just a little confused. I met with Bob the other day. I just found out about the project. I'm directly behind him. I have the garage. I just wanted to make it clear. I brought my plot plans to Bob that my property plot plans two of them go back three feet. So as long as he understands that and is he understands when my property line is. So I'm Mr. Tardo. All that Mr. Tardo, we are just here to prove the review the proposed additions, the decks. Any property line issues you will have to sort it out in some other format because that is not something this board is equipped to address. Okay. We will also encourage Mr. Wiesenberger and his representative. To have a true sit down with Mr. Tardo and solve this problem. Okay. Yes, sir. And in the meantime may I have a motion please. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review and with no bedroom units in the basement. Okay. I'll second in the local. I too am in support so the motion carries with those two provisos. I will move on to the next case calling the OA 1 2 0 0 7 9 0 7 0 7 0 7 E sports street. This is a proposed new roof deck to build off the top level of unit two. The deck forage would be supported by roof covering on a room on our units lower level. The violation of Article 68 Section 29, roof structure restriction, name and address for the record. Hi, this is Ben Gallagher. Mark LeCas is my representing attorney. It's just on previously. I'm the veteran resident of 707 E sports street. It's a two family building. I'm on the top level. Is Mr. LeCas on to speak on this project? Or are you going to carry the ball on it? I see his name twice on the attendees list. Here are Madam Chair members of the board. Sorry about that. It cut out just as you were introducing the case. Okay. Go ahead then. Mark LeCas. LeCas saw 75 Arlington Street attorney for the homeowner is Ben Gallagher and Caitlin Burke. Perfect if we can hold it at that screen right there. So as you can see in this section on the lower left hand side, it's a three story building. The proposed deck is off the top floor. So it's sort of like a walk out terrace rather than a roof deck. And the unit in question is unit two. And it consists of the top two floors of the building. So essentially they're putting a deck on top of their second floor to be accessed by a straight walk out from their third floor living space. The deck is 160 square feet and will be accessed by a door off the living area on the third floor. And this is not a new construction. It's an old building right, Miss LeCas? Correct. And it it fronts on east 4th street and it's a through block to the back of Emerson street. So there's sort of there's a street in the back that goes on a diagonal. And most of the homes on east 4th that are along the back of Emerson also have decks on upper levels as the street goes on a diagonal. Miss Morasa, how are the plans? The plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, Madame Chairman of the board, Haley Dillon Mayer's Office Neighborhood Services. Like to go record and support for this proposal, we also want to recognize that a few hours ago, we did receive two letters of opposition. Just based on the noise that those decks create. But we did have that about as meeting back in May and we haven't received any complaints since then. Thank you. Thank you. The pandemic proof that are unfortunately a significant contributor to this behavior. And I've always have expressed that granting approval for another through deck in this neighborhood would negatively impact the current situation and lead to further decrease quality of life for neighbors. The counselor will continue to spend and it is the neighbors and the gate of heaven, neighbors with us on the issue. I hope that the board will reject this request. Thank you. Anna, just a quick question. Has this particular property been a problem property? Are these particular residents been an issue? Well, that is that I wouldn't know that this particular location has been a problem property. But it's just an issue happening throughout South Boston in general and it is a concern for the counselor to have proof next in South Boston. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? That's the matter, Chair Secretary. We have two opposition letters and the letters are to what the energy said. Okay. Anybody else to speak on this? I do have a raised hand. Collar 11. Yes, Madam Chair. Again, I'm here to say that the building is 19.6 feet wide and 20 feet long. Is that from the previous? What address are you talking about? The building is 19.6 wide and 20 feet long. I'm sorry. We'll go to the next one. Okay. We'll go to the next one. I'm sorry. What address are you talking about, sir? You're building onto someone else's property by 25 foot jacks. Yeah, Pals is only. I think he might be from earlier. Um, Whoever is talking, can you put your name and address on the record and tell us right away what the particular address you're commenting on? The concern is that number six wall street, the building is 19.6 wide. Number six wall street. Okay, we are back in south Boston to 707 East Fourth Street. Okay, so Mr. Mr. Locas, can you tell us about the owners and any issues with this particular deck? Madam Chair and the owner Ben Galagher is on and may wish to speak for himself, but Ben and his new wife, Caitlin are new purchasers of this property last year. They have not had any problems. They actually submitted a letter of support from their fellow condo owners in the unit below them. They are looking forward to making this their long term home and just would really appreciate the 160 square foot of additional space. They are, they are not a problem property. They are not adverse residents in the neighborhood. And if Ben would like to chime in on his own behalf. I mean, I'm going to, okay, let's leave it there. May I have motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPDA design review with having special attention to the rear setback of the deck. I'll second that motion. I too am in support, so you're set with those to provide with that proviso. Thank you so much. Following an ex-case, calling B O A 1191538 10 St. Margaret Street, just to confirm as an existing single family, then add a third floor addition with roof deck and a two-story addition with on the garage on the left side of the house to include extension of living space into the basement. The violation of the Article 65 Section 9 and sufficient radio setback. Article 65 Section 9, the number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Article 65 Section 9, insufficient use of the blow up in space. Article 65 Section 9, insufficient side-jad setback. And Article 65 Section 9, excessive FAR. Amen, Adria, full the record, please. Yes, Madam Chair, members, Chris, through RCA, please, I'll see the project architects. I'm representing the Office of the Library. Chris, can you hold on for a minute? There's some echo. Can you just check if your systems are all set? Do you have an additional electronic device or anything? No, is that better? Yes, thank you. Go ahead. So I'm representing the current owners, Jim and Katie Murphy. They're intention is to expand their existing single family house. To add, there's an, it was a two and a half story building to add a full third floor building. I'm sorry, third floor addition for additional bedrooms as well as the side garage for storage and including additional living space in the basement itself. We will end up lowering the basement height about a foot so that we have a nice clear eight foot ceiling down there. But their intention is to in larger houses for their growing family and in standing neighborhood. We did go, we did have an O and S about a million point. Hold on Chris, hold on. I'm going to tell us about that roof deck. It's a small roof deck on the top floor, obviously it is. It's about 16 by 13 access from a roof hatch itself. Just so for some additional living space. As you can see from the existing plot plan, there a lot of self is is kind of tight to begin with. They do have an existing rear deck that is staying in place. But ultimately that's really their only kind of like private outdoor space. And so, okay, I'm sorry if I missed it, but tell us about the use of in the basement. What is proposed in the basement? It's going to be a family room, a home office. Again, because of the pandemic, they found they've worked for more and more and they realize that you know, working out of the kids bedrooms isn't so effective. Okay, and what's the floor to ceiling height down there? Currently it's about six foot 10. We are going to be roaring it to eight foot zero. Okay, I'm sorry. I think you said that already. Okay, how are the plans, Ms. Faraza? But I'm sure that plans are adequate. I do have a question regarding your side yard setback. What are you proposing in terms of the setback? To the left. So on the left, he's either be about six inches off of the property. Right. And your minimum is 10 feet. De Require minimum is 10 feet. Okay, thanks. We do have a letter of support as well from that butter. And he understands, you know, there's no windows or anything like that in that wall. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We've gone record and support this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Councilor Frank Baker's office, would like to go and record and support you. Good evening, Madam Chair. Go ahead. No, go ahead, I'm sorry. Thanks. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councilor Savi George's office. We'd like to go and record and support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's Jeff. Yes, go ahead. I'd like to offer the BPDA strong support on this proposed project and I'm going to switch hats and give a personal support. The Murphy's and my family are very close friends. The kids play hockey together. This is going to keep a great family in the neighborhood. So I'd like to go and record my address is 15 Glide Street and George Hester. I offer my full support for them. Okay. And here's the secretary here. We do have a few letters of support. Okay, Mr. Ambassador, anybody else with hands raised? I do have a raised hand. When you've been unmuted, can you state your name and address for the record please? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Quinn Vowels, Mission behalf of City Councilor at large, Michael Flaherty. We'd also like to offer our support of the project. Thank you. And I'll make your panelists. Thank you. I know for the raised hands for this proposal. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to approve with a provisal that we exclude the two-story edition on the left side of the house in garage. So exclude the two-story edition on garage? Just on the one that the edition that violates the site yard setbacks. So an exclusion of the two-story edition on the left side of the house that includes the garage. Okay, is there? I do. I'm in support. So the motion carries. Hey, Hansi, is that something that we can look at through design review with the BPDA? Yes, but Jeff, please, I know you have a personal interest in this. No, I do, but if you want to take a look at that site, front-on, it's extremely narrow to begin with. Got it. But, you know, we have to respect Ms. Faraz's opinion on this. Okay. Okay, thank you. This is Tom. I was just going to clarify the provisal a little bit. So it's just no second-story edition on the left side where the side yard setbacks. I guess. So here's another, here's another, I can withdraw that and do a new one, which is to say, motion is to approve with the BPDA proviso that the side yard setback is not violated. Okay. I'll second that motion. So side yard setback not violated. Okay, I just wanted to make sure I have my notes right. Okay. Okay. So there's a second I2 in support. Some motion carries. Following your next case, calling the LA 117-322-169-0-Stree. This is a new decking green roof pergola and plant is on existing roof deck. The violations, article 68, section 29, roof structure restrictions, article 68, section 8, front yards, and sufficient, article 68, section 8, side yards, and sufficient, and article 68, section 8, the re-yard is insufficient. May I have an address for the record, please? Madam Chair and members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz from Adams and Marancy with the business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. Joining me today is Laura Federson, who is the architect, as well as the homeowners, Kristen and Brian Barbeta. So in front of us today is a proposal to construct a new roof deck, where there was previously a roof deck in place that was in complete disrepair. So hold on, hold on, Ryan. What is the dimension of that roof deck? So there's a proposed dimension of the roof deck itself right now. It's a total of 2,159 square feet. And what's proposed? That's, well, that is what's proposed. The pre-exec that was in complete disrepair that was removed because it was becoming a hazard was approximately about 400 square feet. Okay, and then I just want to make sure, so it is accessed by a bulkhead? How is it accessed? So yes, there's an existing bulkhead where you would previously use that to enter the previous roof deck that was there in existence. So besides the roof structure restrictions and the fact that this is essentially replacing a deck, is it the puggler that sends it into our process here? So, so I think that's a few things because some of them were pre-existing. But just for the wreck and to Madam Chair, we went through an extensive community process. I just want facts. I, you know, the puggler was removed. That was one of the substantial changes that the owners have decided to work with the community together. So there is no longer a puggler on this property. As you can see from page three of the drawings now that has been fully removed. Okay, so essentially then all we're looking at today is a 2,159 square foot deck accessed by a bulkhead. Now we should know. Yeah, what's sorry, this is the homeowner. It's actually a 700 square foot roof deck. The roof itself is 2,159 square feet. Okay, so it's 700 square foot roof deck. Okay. Okay. So the whole decking is, but when we factor into the green roof, there's also a square footage for the green roof that's being added as well as the plan. But what is the green roof? What is a green roof? So that's more of like plantings and greener life. And I believe that Laura can probably elaborate a little bit better on that for us. Yeah, if you go to the page with the plan, the page before this, you can see a picture of what it would look like. So it's just a low growing ground cover. Okay. Okay, and I'm assuming, yes. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Maraza? The plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon Mayor's Office, and the neighbors services like to go and record in support. And we held the abouters meeting and then the applicants took the feedback and worked with the abouters to gain their support. Thank you. I'm just going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I'm going to move on to the next slide. I have a talk with the running events during the day. In the conversation with thezion, regarding this matter. I have also continue to hear from our vor as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well aswell assist on meaning. concerns regarding noise from Google sub%. negative impact. thank you. from any raised hands, Ms. Ambassador? Okay. No, the way on header hand, raise a little wave. Can you say your name and address for the verdict, please? Yes, it's Luanne O'Connor, six-shepton, Tara's, self-hosting. Hi, Chair. Yes, can you tell us briefly what your opposition is based on? Anything that the, Anna from the council's office has not covered? Actually, Madam Chair, City Point is supporting this project. With the, with the proviso that the progoe be removed and that is to go with the property versus the owner. The property owners having for, have worked with CPNA and they obtained a vote of support. There were a few of others that were in opposition and still in opposition. So we just kind of asked the homeowners to keep them in mind. Should this be approved? Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of support of approval with BPDA design review to, to get spectral attention to the setback of the deck. I'll second that motion. I too am in support, so you're all set with that proviso. Great. Thank you. Calling an X case, calling the OA 11753132 to 4, Wacala Street. I don't know if I missed that one. Wacala. This will extend the first full living space into the basement. The Violation is Article 50, Section 29, Claudia Ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Jose Lopez, the owner of 2-4 Wacala Street. So, Mr Lopez, tell us what you're proposing to do. Great. Thank you. I'm proposing to add a studio that includes a bathroom, a wet bar, a storage closet, and a mud room into our basement, to accommodate our family member who's come over to help us with childcare, and now that we have a newborn baby. So, is this a one family or a two family? This is a two family. We have two floors on top of ours that are the second family. Okay, so tell us about the basement. Tell us about the floor to ceiling height, and give us details about floor to cell height, and what would make that basement livable for somebody? Sure. The ceiling height is seven foot from the top of the concrete that's there now to the bottom of the ceiling joists of our unit that's on the first floor, and the cell height for the large window that's down there is 39 inches from the top of the floor. So, the floor to cell height is 39 inches? Yes, ma'am. Right? And so, you're having basically a bedroom. What does a wet bar mean? Is that a kitchen? Does it have a stove in there? It wouldn't have a stove, but we wanted to allow her to have a small sink, a plug where she can plug in a hot plate for tea and things like that, a microwave, so she can heat up food while she's down there, and then a bedroom with a TV, and a bathroom for herself to use. And so, this will be permanent residency in this space? We're unsure yet. Our family member right now is visiting from another country and has a visa and will be with us for a couple of months. And after that, we're hoping that one of our mothers who's working remotely will find out if she's gonna continue to work remotely and they would either be coming from New York or Virginia. It's most likely gonna be my mother-in-law from Virginia. Okay, what we wanna make sure is that there is no intention that this become another unit. So, the access to this unit is from the first floor or the space is from the first floor. Yes, yeah, go through my unit, go downstairs, just to be clear on the record, Madam Chair, I don't intend on making this a unit that would then be rented out. I know there's a separate process for doing that. I'm not interested in that right now. This is just to quite frankly help us with our need for childcare and do it in a way that's respectful to our family members. Miss Paraza, how are the plans? The plans are okay. I would love to see elevations. I have a question for Miss Lopez, which is, what is the grade, what is the grade? So for example, in that window well, how high do you have to climb up to reach grade? Or what is the height from the floor, basement floor to the extra grade? The height from the, so right outside of that window, the distance from that up until the top of the grass, I believe is about 15 inches. However, we have a sort of center block thing that goes around it. And so to the top of the center block, I believe it's 20 inches. Okay. The egress well is existing, right? I think I saw from the Google overview that that egress window is currently existing. Yes, that exists now. And right now, do you only think in that spaces, it's used as storage. Okay. And so from that basement floor, you're saying that the bottom of the sill, what's the height to the top of the sill? It's 39 inches. I measured it while I was waiting for it. 39 inches. I measured it while I was waiting on the others because I heard you ask. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? I'm Chair, members of the board. This is Jason Gant from the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Just like to go on record and support of this project. And a butters meeting was held on May 10th where the applicant answered all questions and concerns from the butters and local civic association as well. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion to approve the project with BPDA design review. I'll second that motion. My two-room and support, so you're all set with that provisor. Good luck. Thank you. Call on the next case calling B O A 1174564559 Chickatobits Street. This is a renovation of the second floor unit including relocation to kitchen bathroom. And removal of the portion of a bearing wall of an existing two-family dwelling, expansion of the third floor attic living space with a new roof and dormers. And an increase of approximately 457 square feet. The violations at the call 65 section nine, the floor de-arace was excessive. Article 65 section nine, the building is excessive in stories. Article 65 section nine, the front yard's insufficient. And Article 65 section nine, the side yard is insufficient. May I address for the record please? Daniel McDevish, attorney, two grand of Avenue Milton, Massachusetts. Sir, tell us what's been proposed? This family has owned the property for 65 years. They want to un-lodge the second floor up into already existing attic space by putting a dormer on the roof. The dormer is about 60% of the roof area. By adding the dormer, it will allow floor area that is already there to become accessible. And that's only about 457 square feet. So there are no, as you can see from the plan here, the dormer is consistent with what we see into a gesture. There is no exterior changes to the building other than the adding of the dormer. The violations are... Hold on. Hold on. I have no other plans, Ms. Baraza. Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office, and the Secretary of Justice, please come record and support this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Joe McGeckren, City Councilor Frank Baker's Office, would like to go record and support. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we have a couple of letters of support. Madam Chair, no additional raise hands. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I would like to put forth a motion of approval with BPDD design review on the exterior. I'll second that motion. Aye, Chairman, support, Chair, I'll set that for that, Ms. Baraza. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chair. Following an ex-case, calling BOA 118-4796-12R Plane Street. This is a change of art from an existing carriage house into a single family dwelling, constructing new exterior stairway, a new second floor, and new roof structure. The violations Article 65, Section 42.13, two or more dwellings on the same lot. Article 65, Section 9, a lot frontages insufficient, Article 65, Section 9, side yards insufficient, and Article 65, Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. May I have your address for the record, please? I'm Timothy Sheen. I'm the architect for the project. I think the proponent David Higgins was supposed to be on. I don't hear him, so I can fill in for him. But... So Tim, right away, we should tell you that this ward is not very thrilled about converting carriage houses into single family dwellings. Okay. Tell us what the compelling reason here is. What is the main dwelling? Is that already... Is that a single family or a two family? The main dwelling is a two family unit. Is a two bedroom on the first floor and a three bedroom on the second floor? And it's not... It's not owner occupied, is it? No. Okay, I want to defer this to the full board. Okay, so may we have a motion, please? Yeah, I'll make a motion to the parole. I second it. So, thank you. I, too, may support the date, please. Yes, that would be a date of September. Hold on two seconds, Madam Chair. Looks like September 28th at 12.30. Okay. So we'll see you then, Mr. Sheen and Mr. Higgins. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chairman. On the next case, calling POA 1170623, 95 Wilmington Avenue, the sick constructed dormant, install new windows, the violation, the Article 65, Section 9, the Floyd Eurasia was excessive, Article 65, Section 9, the Bill and Highs, excessive and stories, name and address, we'll get a record please. I've heard Raymond 998, Metropolitan Avenue, Milton. So tell us what's being proposed. It's first tell us if it's a one or two family dwelling. And what is posed? This is a two family dwelling. And it's a unit on the first floor, a unit on the second floor. The third floor currently has a small bathroom in Bevroom. The family is looking to expand with a dormer to make the bedroom a little larger, the bathroom larger, and also a family room where they can all meet there. And we're adding about 337 square feet onto the dormer to expand it there. 337 square feet. Okay. Ms. Paraza, how are the plans? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, my name is Dom Tapie, which is an off-the-nabble of services. We'd like to go on record and support of the proposal. There was no butters meeting held by the Office of the Neighborhoods' Fairways on May 5th, 2021, where a butters and community members go with the report for the proposal and believe there would have a positive impact on the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have one letter of support. Thank you. Chair, I have no waste hands. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review, with special attention to the roof line and dormer setback. I'll second that motion as well. Okay. I'd show them in support. Motion carries with that. Proviso calling an ex-case calling B O A 107 46156 Warren Park. This is a rehab and existing finish basement. I'll be used as a family room. The violation is article 69 section 9 of the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. I'll be using the same name as the one of the members of the board. One second. One second. He's on. Let's have a connective. David, go ahead. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is David Gimaris with business at 60 Shaman Road, Kent and Massachusetts. And so this basement, it's already finished. It's an old penilling basement. Well, we're proposing is just. The first thing that we're proposing is just keep the existing layout of the basement. And just update to. Be newer and safer and clean cleaner and just. Okay, so let me ask you a couple of questions. Is this a one family or a two family? One family. Okay, tell us what the proposed ceiling height is going to be in that basement. Seven feet. Seven feet on the nose. Yes, finished. Okay, so seven feet finished. And it is a family room. It is a family room. Okay, how are the plans, Ms. Baraza? The plans are okay, Madam Chair. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Our office would like to go on record in support of six Warren. The applicants notified a butters on April 15, 2020. And our office has received no letters of opposition for this project. The applicants have also lived at the address for five years. And they're just looking to add additional space for their growing family. We do not believe that this project will negatively impact the community. And we have no further comments or concerns. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here we have one letter of support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thanks. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward motion of approval. Thank you. Second hand motion. I too am in support. You're all second luck. Thank you. Only the next case calling B.O.A. 116 7558 22 Sedwick Street. This is a constructed new dorm on the right side of the dwelling. The violation of Article 55 Section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 55 Section 9, the bill and the House excessive in stories. Name and address for the record place. I have an Hernandez, one 11 Baker Street, West Waxbury. So Mr Hernandez, tell us, is this a one or a two family? It is a two family house currently. It's to remain as the two family. Okay. And tell us what's being proposed. So the proposal is to renovate the attic, finish the attic space at third level and half story better yet. And add a dormer on the right side of the dwelling. It would consist of a new bedroom bathroom space and laundry area. So this would be a five bedroom unit. Is that what I'm hearing? I believe it's actually a four bedroom unit. Yeah. Okay. How are the plans, Miss Baraza? Madam chair, the plan chair, adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening. Madam chair, members of the board. This is Tiffany Galliano with Mayor Janie's Office Neighborhood Services. And the applicant has received support from the Jamaica Plane Neighborhood Council. And so the mayor's office would like to go on record and support of this project as well. I have no new raise tanks. May I have a motion, please? Madam chair, I'd like to put a motion for approval with BPD, a design review, and then we have a motion for approval. So I'll take a motion. I'll take a motion. So attention to the size of the dormer in your intersection of the existing bridge and new dormer. I'll second that motion. So I'm sorry the dormer size and the. I'm sorry section in exception of the intersection of the existing bridge with the new dormer. I just wanted to add really quickly that 1187 Saratobas back on under John Durant. So I don't know if you want to wait till the very end or. They'll be called. They'll be called at the end. Okay, thank you. Calling an x cage calling B.O.A. 117 693 654 Danforth Street. This is a dormer over the bathroom renovate bathroom the violations article 55 section 12 side yard is insufficient and article 55 section 12 the ray yet is insufficient. So I'm going to have a address for the record. Please. Hi, this is Louisa Santos. Address is 54 Danforth Street. I'm the homeowner. So this is a single family or two family. It's a tiny single family that I call the bird house. Okay, so tell us what you're proposing for the bird house. So I am proposing adding a dormer on the bathroom. As you can see from the first picture, it's got splanted roof on both sides. And what happens when I try to brush my teeth or wash my face. So it's really just adding a bit of ceiling height. It was rejected because of the side yard and rear yard, which isn't sufficient, but which is not going to be impacted here as I'm building that not sideways. Okay, how are the plans, Ms. Buraza? Madam Chair, the plans are sufficient. Anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Tiffany Gawayato here from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. My predecessor conducted a community process for the proposal and the applicant received support from the JPMC. So the mayor's office would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, we have one letter of support. I'm sure you have no raised hands. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? I'll second that motion. Hi, two men, support. So you're all set. Good luck. Awesome. Thank you. How long next case? Mr. Fortune, you phased out for a little while there. I might have fell asleep for a second. No, I didn't. No, calling the next case, calling B-O-A-1-1-6-5-9-3-5-56-locksed, lockstead avenue. This is increasing the size of the existing deck. The violation of Article 55, Section 12, the side yard, is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Hi, my name is Frank Schlaisey, good evening, Madam Chair and other board members. I have a single family residence at 56 locks that avenue. So tell us what you're proposing to do. So I'd like to take my, so I live on a single, the single family only street in Jamaica plain, except for my house, onto the right of me is a commercial building. It's a facility for the candycapped. And there's, um, buses and vans that go in and out of there on a, you know, basically constant basis with beeping and so forth. There's employees that congregate and smoke outside. So I'd like to extend my deck over towards their property line and put a little fence up. So I get a little bit of privacy from them. Okay, so what's, what is the, the dimension of this, uh, deck that you're proposing? So I'd like to extend it out another approximately eight feet. Okay. And how close to the property line does that bring it to two feet to the side, to the side property line. It's within two feet. That's right. That's correct. Okay. And this on the, I'm sorry, Madam Chair for interrupting on the plot plan. And this is one feet from the property line. Yeah, I'm not going to go that far. I'm not sure why the plot plan shows that, but it's going to be about two feet from the property line. Okay. And how are the plans, Ms. Maraza? The plans are adequate and I'm chair. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair, members of the floor. My name is Tiffany Colliett. Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, given that I do not have any letters of opposition. And the mayor's office would like to go on office in support of this proposal. I'm trying to have no raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a BPD a designer view with two proviso BPD a design review and with no side yard violation. Second that motion. We hold on Ms. Bras of though without a side yard violation. It just essentially means then that the deck could not be built in the side yard, right? Well, if it's the minimum is 10 feet, right? Yes. So essentially, it sounds like his enclosed porch is within 10 feet off the property line. Right. I mean, the property is pretty large. It's about 11,000 square feet. I don't see why can't go to the rear without violating a side yard setback. Okay. I too am in support. So the motion carries. So I'm not sure I understand that. So I'm trying to get privacy from the neighbor, not not going back. So, so you came to us, you asked us and we just we in a wisdom suggested that in fact the step would be too close to the property line. And that you have other options. So the motion is for approval with design review without violating the side yard. That's correct. Okay. So good luck on that. May I have the next case? Yes. Calling an case calling the OA 1165245 41 to 41 a green street. This is at 43 green street installing new deck. The violation of Article 55 section nine. The front yard setback is insufficient. An article 55 section nine. The side yard setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Hi, Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Michelle Carrie work for Payne Boucher and I'm representing our client Elizabeth Stiffle. My address my work address is 173 North folk Avenue in Boston mass. So tell us what's being proposed. Okay. So what we're proposing here is so Elizabeth has owned this property for a few few decades now and there was once a roof deck on the. The place in which we're proposing she had to take it down to do roof repairs and she is seeking to have it reinstated the new roof deck rebuilt in the same footprint that was previously in place with a design that marries aesthetically with the design vernacular of this house and. We triggered the setbacks because this used to be a storefront prior to being a home. And so the home is you know right on the property line. So, so this is green street. So, okay, I just need to take a step back because the address is 41 to 41 a green street and you're proposing a new deck on 43. How does that work? Yeah, you know, that's a very good question. We're not quite sure why it is listed as as 41 and 41 a but that is how it is is deeded and it's it's in fact 43 but that is if you. If you it was pulled as a 41 40 and 41 a because that is how it's listed under the property. Okay with the city and it's a single family. It is a single family and is this the part of green street towards center. It is if intersects with. Was it rock, rock view. Right. Okay, always thought that was an interesting house with those. The side side. I don't know what they called eyebrow windows or something. Okay, how are the plans Miss Baraza? Madam chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak in support or an opposition of this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Tiffany Gawayet, will hear from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. This proposal has undergone its community process where it receives support from the Jamaica Plane neighborhood council and director butters. So the mayor's office would like to go on record and support this proposal. I'm sure I have nobody stands. We have a motion, please. I'm chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPD a designer review on the X year and deck. I'll second that motion. Okay, I too mean support. So you're you're all set with that. Wonderful. Thank you so much. On the next case calling B O A 118 4652 4Coppert road. This is constructed 14 by 20 family room addition to the rear of four cut part. So violations article 56 section 8. We're really out. We're really out setback requirement is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Kevin, Kevin, you've been unmuted. Go ahead. Kevin, can you hear us? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. It's not as a panelist. I'm not sure. This is for us in the meantime. How are the plans? The plans are okay. Could be a little bit better. But but you understand what it's what it's right. It's a very modest build out. Okay. Can we get Mr. Fallian? I'm not sure. He's on as a panelist. I'm not sure. It's just. I've got. Oh, not used to. Kevin, can you hear us? Don't have any message from messages from the chat and he's on as a panelist. Not sure what's happening. Okay. Why didn't we come back to this in the meantime? Let's move on. Calling an X case calling B O A 119194449 Martin Street. I'm not sure if you can hear us. I'm not sure if you can hear us. I'm not sure if you can hear us. There's a master bedroom addition. Above the existing sunroom for existing owner. The violations. Article 56 section eight. Side. Is insufficient. Name and address for the record place. Good evening to Madam Chair to the board to the committee. My name is Derek Rubinoff of Derek Rubinoff architect. It's a spring street in West Roxbury. And. What's being proposed is existing single family house. With a sun porch on that's existing on the side. There's a second floor deck that's existing that doesn't really get used by. Family with. Two young daughters KC and Dan Miller, the owners. They've been there for several years now. And what they'd like to do is get a little more room in their house. For a master bathroom. There's a room on the second floor there for an additional bathroom. They need it with the family. So what we're proposing here is a simple. Nine by I think it's about 12 or 13 feet addition. Above this existing sunroom. So there's no additional change in. There's no. Footprint building. All we're looking to do is. Tell us what the side yard. Requirement is and what what the site current side yard is. So we're not making that any worse. We're extending a non conformity. Yeah, certainly. It's a side yard requirement is 10 feet. And what's there right now is eight foot six and three quarters. So we're not making that any worse. We're extending a non conformity. Yeah, God. It's just that it's a second floor addition. So, you know, we need to kind of understand that. How are the clients, Ms. Baraza. But I'm sure the plans are adequate. I think either in support or an opposition at this proposal. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Jack Duggan mayors of the neighborhood services just want to go on reference support. The applicant went before the West Rocks, for neighborhood council on May 25th and received their full support. Thank you. I'm sure I have no hands raised. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sure I would like to put for a motion of approval with BPD a design review on the exterior. Oh, second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set for that. Provise a good luck. Thank you so much. Madam chair, I believe Mr. Foley is on a certain. In the last call. I can recall that if we can unmute him. Let's go ahead. We unmute him to make sure he's on. Yeah, Kevin, can you hear us? Can you hear me? All right, let me just let me just call it back. And for the racquet calling BOA 118 46524, cut through the road. This is a constructive 14 by 20 family room. Addition of the rear for comfort, the violation, Article 56 section 8, the radio and setback, that is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Yes, Kevin Foley for a cut where it wrote. So tell us is this a one or two family dwelling? This is a single family dwelling. Okay, and you're just off of Bellevue. Okay, and this is a 14 by 20 family room. Is and Miss Baraza, the plans are adequate. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of proposal. Good evening, Madam chair, members of the board, Jack Duggan, mayor's office and neighborhood services. I go in record support. The applicant before the Westrox and neighborhood council on May 25th, and receive their full support. And in addition, he has support from the immediate butter in the rear. Thank you. Madam chair, Secretary here, we do have a few letters of support. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPD a design review. I'll second that motion. I do them in support. You're all second luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B O A 118 3614 61 Oakland Street. This is a donor on both sides and half of the house in the attic addition to bedrooms, one bath and a staircase going up to the second floor. The violation is Article 51 section 9. Bill had successive in stories and Article 51 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. I'm going to move to the next slide. So what cases is this? This is open street. They were on the phone earlier. Okay. Mr. You you've been unmuted. I couldn't make them a panelist. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you Madam chair members of board. My name is Kevin. I'm the owner at 61 Oakland Street. Okay. So tell us what your is this a one family or two family? This is an existing two family up and down. Both units are two bed one bathroom. Okay. Tell us what you're proposing to do. We're proposing to finish the attic space, adding a dormer to the right side. To add additional two beds in one bath to accommodate my family. Okay. So let's see. Tell us about the side yard on that side. What is what do you have and what's proposed? So. After getting the initial refusal, I had my architect redesign the layout so that it's only dormering on one side of the house. So I think that's the right right side facing the front. So there would be no side yard setback. Yeah, because you have that corner locked. So that's difficult. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Baraza? Madam chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam chair members of the board. Conor new moon with the mayor's office and the board services. Like on record support this proposal. Mayor's office conducted a butter's meeting on May 4th. A butter's were pleased to see a family moving into the neighborhood and that there would be owner occupied on the second floor. There was some concerns about possible weekend work. So we just ask if the applicant work with residents to make sure that. It's informing of the construction plans and being respectful on the weekends. And for the more they went on to the Brighton Austin improvement association received full support from them as well. Thank you. Good evening. This is Marma Creve from councilor Braden's office. The council would like to go on record of being support in the being and support of this project. Thank you. And now it's getting late, isn't it? I'm sure I have no raised hands. Do you know who Philip McGregor is? Mr. Massager. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Philip, go ahead. You've been on mute. Can you state your name and address for the record please? I can't. I don't know. Hi. Go ahead. Can you hear us? I'm. Are you speaking. I didn't send me a message earlier. So I'll send it a message, sure what's happening? So can you hear us? I'm not sure I'm out of chair. I have no way. Okay. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review. Um, taking special attention to the size of the dorm. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Next case calling B.O.A. 119-7685-111-Ellington Street. This is in addition to the rail of the house and new master suite kitchen and new roof siding the violation is Article 51 section nine side yards insufficient and Article 51 section nine. The ray yacht is insufficient, name and address for the record please. Karen L.ward 111-Ellington Street. So is this a single family or two family a single family? Okay. And tell us what are you what you're proposing to do. Um, we're proposing to add a two story edition off the back. The first floor would be a new kitchen and our existing kitchen would become a playroom for our three children. And the second floor would be a master bedroom and bathroom. Again, just to give an extra bedroom. Give you breathing space. Got it. Um, the plans miss. I'm going to ask for the floor. Madam chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office name and services. Mayor's office like to offer its full support. This is an opportunity to keep a family in the area and as well as an owner occupied household. We have the applicant flyer, the neighborhood and we received multiple letters of support. And they also the applicant went on to the bright and all some of the association received their full support as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. This is more McCree from council brings office. The councilor would also like to go on record of being in support of this project to thank you. Thank you. Madam chair, we secretary here. We have a couple of others of support. Thank you. Madam chair, the Phillip had his hand raised with the previous. I'm not sure if he's going to have a second motion. I'm not sure if he's going to have a second motion. I'm not sure if he's going to have a second motion. Okay, so I have no additional hands raised. Okay, may I have a motion, please. Madam chair, I'd like to set a motion for approval with BPD a design review. Thank you. Second motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. I'm going to set a motion for approval. I'll start with the first floor. I'll start with the first floor. So I'm going to set a motion. 41788, 1187 Saratoga Street. This is the correct existing curb violation of a basement unit. By removing the basement kitchen and door unit and separation between unit one and basement. And then extend living space into the basement area from unit one. To connect directly into the first floor unit and remove this rear. Second floor and terriers. So violation that equal 53 section. I excessive FAR. Name an address for the record, please. I'm going to. This is a general. I'm the general contractor. And the contractor of the property. Right now, and we're trying just to make the basement part of the living space in the first floor. So it's a home that we're providing the first floor. We're just trying to remove the kitchen as the gentleman said before. So we just try to add a little bit more space for our own family. Okay, so tell us is this a one family or two family dwelling? That's existing to families. It's an existing two family. Okay. And so with this plan that I have up, do you have any bedrooms proposed on the basement? Pardon me. Do you have any bedrooms proposed in the basement? That is currently two existing bedrooms. And we propose into the window wells to me, the current code. Okay, and tell us what the floor to ceiling height is in the basement. And what the floor to sell height is in the basement. It's over seven feet high. And the basement is I think it's over 50% on the ground, less than 50% of the garden. Okay, Ms. Baraza, I need your help on that on this one. I'm sorry. Can you can you repeat again? What is the bedroom window height to the center? I'm sorry. It's 42 inches. It's a window. And what's the height of the exterior grade from the interior along the bedroom wall? I'm not quite sure whether the mansion. That's what I know. We don't need to do a big call for the well. Okay. Okay. Okay. Is there any kitchen in the basement? It will be re-look. That's part of the proposal because it's not going to be any kitchen in the basement. Just the two bedrooms are living room in a existing bathroom. Okay. So unit one, how many bedrooms will that have? I'm currently is three bedrooms. So it's going to be total five bedrooms. Okay. And where is this project? This is an East Boston. You know that. Yes. But and you know that no more than four unrelated individuals can live in this space. And unless you have a family. Yes, I know. It's really a family is. Mr chair. A chairman. A chair. Mr chair. I know his wife, popular. He's kids. And I think it's a small, they're more than usual. Related. Everybody's related. Okay. Okay. And the floor to ceiling height. You said was seven foot plus. But you don't know. Okay. Okay. Okay. I use a youth comfortable with this. So the elevation that you're showing. It's showing that majority. Well, you're only showing one elevation, but majority of the basement seems to emerge from that one elevation. That you're showing. It's just in the back, which is basically taking that living room in the mechanical. Which is separate from there. Okay. So the, so the site slopes. So meaning that the front elevation. Okay, got it. Okay. Basically the front bedroom is going to be more high to the middle bedroom. The more on the ground level is going to be the mechanical, which is not a living space. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Madam chair members of the board. Connor knew the mayor's office. If it services my counterpart conducted in a butter is meeting on February 4th, 21 and they received support from the Orient Heights neighborhood Council as well. I think this is an opportunity to keep a family in the Boston area. Thank you. Madam chair secretary here. We have one letter of support from the. Sorry. We also have four letters of opposition. In regards to being a legal basement. And the concerns that the people had a living air, are not really. Okay so this is to pull to make this it legalized the basement occupancy. This is again I will get the community to a better point. I have no additional raise hands. Okay, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I just have a question. This is this was still remain as a two family correct because you're extending. Okay, so I would like to make a motion to approve with without building coal violation on the interior connecting stairs. Okay. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you are approved. For the proposal, but just make sure that you meet all building code requirements. Okay. Correct. Okay, so the meeting is now adjourned. That was the last project. Thank you everybody. And Mr. Fortune and Miss Baraza. See you on Tuesday. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.