 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you right bok book book book book Mr. Stone? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mr. White. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Kyle Smith here on behalf of the owner for 13 Winship and Street. The last one at the one-dirties. I mean, I'll let him raise. So that would be for Case B.O.A. 164-311653 with the address of 13 Winship Street. We can go ahead and explain first. Yes. And thank you Madam Chairman and Board. This is our second time requesting an extension. We presented twice before the BAAA in the first meeting there. It had been requested changes to the scope of the project, which we were able to implement. At the conclusion of the second meeting when we had the vote of non-application of the BAAA, back in early October, we submitted updated plans to ISD. ISD for reasons I can't explain has not been able to turn around timely and updated a refusal letter, which we've only just received as of yesterday. The BAAA requested a couple of things one specifically was the additional presence of off-street parking, which we were able to accommodate. It has to be accessed across another parcel commonly owned by the current owner of 13 Winship. So we were able to accommodate those things needed to obtain community and BAAA support, knowing that they would trigger other voting violations. And that zoning refusal letter was only provided by ISD as of yesterday. Stephanie Haynes, the schedule for you has requested that we defer just so that we can perfect notice with the updated violations. But again, the BAAA and community approval that we have or non-apposition was continued upon these things being implemented in the plans as we have provided to ZBA. So we are needing an extension only to help ISD in their delay in getting to a sub-data refusal letter, and we would be looking to speak before you as rapidly as possible. Thank you. Was that other in Caroline? What are the dates again? We could do February 4th, February 25th, and March 11th. And I guess only the delay was due to ISD review. February is now two months, three months out. Is there any conceivable way of getting on the schedule before then? Unfortunately, February 4th is the earliest available date. But with that, I'm going to ask for motion. Most units, you defer to February 4th, 2025. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Vivo. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Sure, well, it's just motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any further requests for withdrawals of the Firmals? We would be 1130. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I have two 165D Street and 81 Lexington. We'll start with pace V8, 157, 558, 4, with the address of 81 Lexington Street. I'm going to say, we'll start and we won't move on to the next one. Go ahead, yeah. Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the blue. My name is James Christopher, 666 architects with the business address 10th Floats Road, seeking a deferral at this time. The plans have been filed with more than adequate time at ISD. We've been reached out several times to the planning exam with no response. We are still awaiting those plans. So we request a brief deferral so that we may receive the new letter. So now I have February 4th. Is the next available? Yes. I have a motion. Motion? Motion? To February 4th. 480. Motion to defer to February 4th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. As we go. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. And then 165. Which is case B.O.A. 165. 0690. With the address of 165. Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the bullet James. Christopher Six. It's architects with business address. 104s. Road and bridge. Road and bridge. You'll be on behalf of the hotel. Disprison to the floor. You'll be on behalf of the hotel. Disprison to the floor. You'll be on behalf of the hotel. There was a strip of his era on my drawings. I've since revised that. I sent the plans into the ZBA. And Stephanie H. requested that. Secret. Before also that, the plans, I may review the plan. There's been no change to it. But that's the request of the. CDA. Okay. And are we still at February 4th, Stephanie? I mean, Caroline? Yes. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to the front is to have February 4th. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stavridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wu-Huang. Yes. Ms. Berraza. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Any more, Vash? Mr. Veltan also requesting a deferral. Yes. Madam Chair. Andrew Melton, Melton for architects. We'd like to request this is a second deferral. And basically, what? We just need to property for now. 36 Akron Street. Boss Ben. Okay. The second, okay. Secretary's number. It can be betten to the record first. That would be okay. Be away. Be away. One five nine. One nine. Three three with the address of 36 Akron Street. Go ahead and explain as well. Okay. So, we have a report. Yes. The reason for the extension is so that we can have a second meeting with the Ratsbury neighborhood council, which was requested by them just last Friday. So, we want to respect, you know, their input and their wishes. So, that's the reason for the extension. Oh, and what takes do we have now, Caroline? We have the report. February 25th and March 11th. That's not good. February 21st would be fine. That would be great. We have motion. Motion to defer to February 4th. Have a second. Start back then. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Derivanzia. Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Mrs. Wilwell? Yes. Mrs. Bervazza? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Have a good day. Mr. Schimler. Mr. Schimler. Mr. Schimler. Mr. Schimler. Mr. Schimler. Thank you. Chair votes. Thank you. Mr. Schimler. It's up in Doug Lee. I think yours left. From a bit of time. I think you have a question just a bit. What's yours? Say something and thank you Koimee. Yes. I think you need to. Yes. That's museum. It's not when says to you. You're speaking in South Korea. 27.3 seems to be the next one. Oh, um, and should we also have one point IP? Oh, one two five big sorry. Yes. Okay. So let's give down to case B.O.A. 163, 3160 with the address of 145 B Street. If the applicant's in or the representative of the president, would you please find the case? Yes. Good morning. My name is Robin Latour. Can everyone hear me? Okay. So the purpose of this meeting is dish wireless is looking to install in a tenor facility, a total of nine antennas on the rooftop of 125 B Street. The, um, per the zoning, there was a violation due to the setback required from the roof not met. Um, the purpose of the install for, um, the setback was due to there is a agreement with American tower whose own an easement on the rooftop that, um, would only allow us to go on a certain location, which would be about the penthouse where T-mobile is currently located. If you want to scroll down a little, you could be, you'd see a little better on the rooftop view. Um, keep going down. There you go. You can see, uh, go up right. And then, um, on to the right where that penthouse is. Um, that is where dish wireless is looking to install, um, the antennas, which will be concealed to, um, mesh with the brick around the current area. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, SIGGI Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the community process. Our office hosted an a butter's meeting on the 9th of September at which concerns were raised regarding the visibility of the antenna installation as well as the proposed height of the structure. It's also concerned about whether the installation would emit anything that would affect quality of life such as noise, light or result in other community impacts. Concerns were also raised relating to the context of the structure and a residential block with the park, a butter's felt, a more commercial area would be appropriate for this proposal. The St. Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood Association, uh, had a presentation from the petitioner and many of the same concerns were raised. Ultimately, they did not take a position, back group did not take a position on the proposal. And with that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Gammal. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Sydney from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn sent an opposition letter to the board this morning as well as an email to ISD seeking clarification for the neighbors on the zoning violations due to their concerns on lack of anything related to changes of roof structure or height. Councillor Flynn would like to join both his neighbors in the St. Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood Association and go on record in opposition to a lack of community protection. To a lack of community process, a disregard for neighbors concerns, as well as no follow up on information requested by our office and the local civic group from the meeting. On community process, neighbors in the area were reportedly unaware of the proposal until a meeting had to be requested by the St. Vincent's Lower End Neighborhood Association. At that meeting, nearby families with young children express concerns by the proximity of the cell tower and any radiation to their homes and children. As well as firety playground across the street. These concerns from parents of the newborn children, the civic association and the Councillor's office were often talked over by the proponent in a manner that was not respectful to the community. Many residents express concern that if studies show in the future that this proximity was harmful, it would be too late for their families. Unfortunately, these neighbors left the meeting feeling their concerns were not addressed seriously and dismissed out of hand. At that meeting, the Councillor's office and civic group asked for information on any other potential locations that were considered that may satisfy concerns on proximity to residents and young families with newborns. However, that information was never provided. For these reasons, the Councillor continues to join his neighbors in St. Vincent's in opposition to a community process that was lacking in overall public safety concerns. Thank you. Thank you. I have two additional raised hands, Madam Chair. Mr. Feige. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Christopher Flarrity. I live directly across the street from the proposal at 125 B Street. First off, I'd just like to correct SIGGI from the neighbourhood services. St. Vincent did take a stance on this and we're when was opposed to this proposal. Councillor Fung's office noted that. So first and foremost, I'm personally very concerned surrounding the unknown health potential health hazards associated with the explosion to the cell tower of three small children. Several of my neighbors, we all have young families with small children. So we all share the same concerns around and I just feel like the cell phone tower, I don't think it should be suggestions for me. I don't think it should be in residential district where I have to put my head down on the hill at night on the third floor, approximately 50 feet away. There's going to be nine new cell phone towers. That's very concerning to me. I just don't think it's a net positive addition to the neighbourhood. It's not residential, it doesn't help with the housing crisis. And then secondly, I believe that it appears that a few of the violations were missed by ISD. The Article 68 Section 8, maximum amount of building height. This building is an old school house. It currently stands at 62 feet tall at the roof line of the penthouse. I'm not sure that the proponent spoke to the additional height or how tall the building is going to be to the board. That was a very brief presentation. If I may, I think they're going to add roughly eight or nine feet to the penthouse, bringing this building up to approximately 70 feet. There is many questions, have a risen sound, like shadows being cast on the playground and shadows cast on neighbours homes. Which were really addressed. That's what led to the sentiment of frustration from the neighbourhood and the lack of transparency, lack of communication. This proponent went before the board on December, excuse me, November 19th, asked to get back before the board now. Today on December 3rd, last week was Thanksgiving. A lot of conversations seem to be had about this. And I just want to implore upon the board that, you know, I think that there is a couple of violations that were missed by ISD. Again, overall height of the maximum building height is going now to 70 feet. Almost a high rise. And then secondly, roof structure. You know, we've had names that have tried to put a dormer shed, two and a half story wood frame single family, try to add a dormer shed to the building and have gone through lengthy process with roof structure violations and overall height. And this project wants to go from, you know, an additional 10 feet on top of a second foot structure. So thank you very much. I appreciate your time and consideration. Thank you again. Jake. Hello, everyone. Jake, Kajapalia, another resident of the neighborhood, other on B-Sphere, just around the corner for the proposal. I wanted to echo the sentiment that Chris shared. I think there's, I was one of those that went through the zoning process for a shed roof and it's striking how that roof violation on this project was not flagged. So I have concerns about that. I have concerns about the other implications for the community. It doesn't seem that this has any public benefit for the residents of the neighborhood. Just wanted to share that. I mean, opposition. Thank you. Thank you. I don't see any additional race hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Can the applicant speak to some of the concerns that have been raised visibility or industry health and health implications or structure like by looking. So I will speak to the roof violation. And then I have Donald Hayes who's on here who is a specialist who's going to do a EME study to an additional one, which I had told them at the meeting that they would. Do an additional study just to show them the concerns of the our frequencies. So as far as the roof height. We did send this back to ISD. There is no violation for the ordinance 86.6 or rooftop mounted antenna. The height of the building anything more than 45 feet. The maximum height of antenna can be 20 feet or 20% of the building height, whichever is greater. And that is not the case here. And then as far as the they will not be able to see the antennas from the ground, it will be concealed over the penthouse to match the brick that surrounds the building. And I will ask if we can have Don speak, Donald Hayes on behalf of the EME in our frequencies. Okay. Good morning, can everybody hear me? Okay. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. So my name is Donald Hayes, H A E S. I do not work for a dish or any of the parties here. I am an independent consultant. I am registered in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to provide services relative to non-ionizing radiation. And I can forward my certificate if that's what you are looking forward. So for this particular installation, an evaluation was done by a company known as Fox Hill Telecom. What this evaluation did was to use the guidance by the Federal Communication Commission, the FCC. It's a sister organization, if you will, the office of engineering and technology in bulletin number 65. All of that information was used to prepare what's known as theoretical predictions of what the maximum potential RF exposure could be from a facility like this at this location. And it worked to be built. This particular report is 42 pages in length. It's very detailed. I did look at this in extreme detail from my area of expertise. By the way, I've been performing consulting services in the field of non-ionizing radiation. Since 1988 when I was working at MIT. Anyway, if you scroll all the way down to the bottom of the report and in the conclusions, we will find that there is not a potential for any member of the public to receive an exposure in excess of both the Federal Communications Commission's exposure limits for members of the public. Which is 24 seven, but also the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Public Health regulations through a 105 CMR 122. And I would be happy to answer any questions or go through my CV if that's what you would like to take. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I do. I noticed in the drawings on drawing 17 of 25 of the CD submission for the project. There are some warning signs. The bluely yellow and the orange that exceed the FCC occupation exposure limit are those. But I couldn't find the locations of those warning signs. Those are located on top of the rooftop and those are basically if you're standing directly in front of the antenna, those are for basically anyone on the roof that is working on the antennas or working on the roof. And those are mandatory or regulations to have those signs. They are literally on the equipment. Those signs are on the equipment. No, they would be on the out like so if they're, it actually will tell you it should tell you in the notes where each sign is to be located. It's not on the equipment. It would be either on the ground level or outside of where the antenna is located. So how does anyone so it so it would I see the no public and have access to it but to maintain the roof. How do the general public know that you have to contact the dish to access the roof? How is that? How is that kind of one? The land there to contact the roof? I don't know if you understand your code. See it again. Are you asking if, so how does the general contractor then needs to repair the roof, the rubber membrane of the roof? So you would get every warning not to coming close proximity to the equipment? So it's really all signs they can clearly see the signs. They would be on the outside of the equipment where anyone can see it. So it's basically for if you're standing directly in front of the antenna which you shouldn't do anyways but it's basically for that purpose. Yeah, so that I mean that would just be my concern that you know how how are just and there's already signs up there because team mobile has antennas up there already. Okay, so are there any kind of regulations that the building owner needs to abide by with no. Okay. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing done is there a motion? Mausher, I make a motion of approval with review from the planning department, special attention to ensuring that there is no visibility of the antenna from the street. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Ms. Bedapuraza? No. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next. Case has been declared which takes us to case. Be aware. One five five two two nine eight with the address of 27 W Street. If the applicant and will represent the present will definitely explain the case to the board. Thank you very much. Cameron Merrill on behalf of the applicant business address 100 state street Boston Massachusetts. This is a matter which comes before the board in connection with the 2019 case where this property was approved to be converted to a six unit building within the six unit building is a larger unit which was on two levels. It was determined that the best operation of this building and in conjunction with the goals to provide more housing within the city was to split that unit into a new unit which is 450. And a new unit which is 760 square feet as opposed to the one existing unit. The layout is somewhat unique in that back section of this building. There was a request by I. S. D. to provide a clarification letter which is now on your screen that was provided in early October and has been or excuse me September and has now been reviewed which ought to clarify some of the concerns and questions raised. The architect Peter Van Gogh is on this call as well and he can help explain some of the issues if the board has further questions. But effectively this is a split of one unit only exterior changes to provide additional studio unit within this building. Are there questions from the board. Hearing none. Can I have a public. Yes, Madam Chair members of the board. Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The sound the mayor is obviously to defer to the judge for this board. I want to say conduct the butters meeting. There were several butters who attended to butters vocalize their support for the proposal. Signing the applicant work great neighbors that kept the word and were impactably clean and neat with the property. The applicant went on to meet with the Highland Park neighborhood association which voted to approve the proposal. The student department was created to be rented at 80% AMI. For the income restricted with that will defer to the judge in this board. Thank you. Thank you. I see no race hands, Madam Chair. Was that man a motion. I think that's a good question. Earlier additional questions or is there and someone make a motion. Madam Chair. I did not see the plans on the submissions. So if someone has seen them that would be great. I did not see them in my. I just received them this morning. Okay, so then I'm going to put a motion to defer so that we can have the opportunity to review those plans. I'm not sure necessarily matters but when they in terms of being received that was received from ISD we had submitted them in September. I know we have to defer you a couple of times already. Yeah, if if if Stephanie can speak on that but I cannot provide a motion without reviewing that. That's my first one to be clear. Thank you. Okay, so I'm sorry that I was I was quiet but I wanted to make sure that I would I didn't miss something versus my colleague. I'm sorry that you confirmed that we just got him this morning. So I want to put forward the motion to defer until we have the opportunity to do those and drawings. Caroline, are we what are the needs of the for now? Since we have every day and January 14. I would like to make a motion to defer to January 14 so that we can review the plans for the project. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Ruo. Yes. Ms. Betaprasa. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. And it looks like we've to wait until one o'clock or the interpretation. So I will see you then. Recording stopped. Thank you.