 you you the is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this. Morning, telephone. What a, who telephone and who progress. Through a bit of telephone and video conferencing, the information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the ritual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Or members, applicants and their attorneys, or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints required. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So let yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Villaccio. With more than Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. Bada Baraza. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. McAul. Good morning. Okay, Ms. Panato. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Ms. Mucahal Auté. Jessica or someone else? Okay. Well, can you raise your hand if you're on it? I don't see it. Sorry. I don't know if we'll reach out, Madam Chair. Okay. Well, we will proceed with a six-member board starting with the extensions. And with that, when we go to the extension schedule with the director, I will read all of them into the director. It's very difficult. I've read them all together next to the director. I'll run after another. And then I'll turn back. You got to hear if there are any questions from the important members. So, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, welcome. We begin with case meal-way 1310507. The address of 29 cameras is free. Next, we have case meal-way 12224197. The address of 73 stand with street. Next, we have case meal-way 12910930. The address of 41 we have added them. Then we have case meal-way 86870. So, we have two companion cases. Again, case meal-way 86870. With the address of 810 canterbury street. Along with that, we have case meal-way 86875. But the address of 812 canterbury street. Then we have case meal-way 1096128. The address of 10 Rockland street. Next, we have case meal-way 10192. So, zero with the address of 645 river street. Next, we have case meal-way 93284. With the address of 192 Gladstone street. Then we have case meal-way 10165403. With the address of 70 Utah street. Next, we have case meal-way 773858. With the address of 611 street. And finally, for the extension we have case meal-way 1018350. With the address of 38 to 40 spray street. That's what we have, Madam Chair. Thank you. If there are no questions, can I suggest a single motion to grant the extensions as requested? Madam Chair, I'll make a single motion to grant the extensions as requested. Is there a second? Second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Berk-Brazzo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Is Ms. Mukahal with us? Okay, Mr. Ms. Penado? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kary? Next room, move on to the recommendations. Can you provide 30 from recent supplement? We'll be again, are we through the cases? What the decision was? And the new vote, Madam Chair, and Madam Chair. We begin with case of B-O-A, 156-165, with the address of 16 Oak Street, which was approved, was a provision of eliminating the overhang on the debt that is being requested. Then we have case of B-O-A, 154-2426, with the address of 82 Washington Street. That was approved with the provision of approved by parks or review by parks and recreation. Next we have case B-O-A, with one for five, two for four eight, with the address of 332 and 340, some street. That was approved with the provision of screening and buffering and with BPDA, the design review. Next we have case B-O-A, 155-4386, with the address of 515 East First Street, that was approved. Then we have case B-O-A, 156-8248, with the address of 36 to 42 Westworld Broadway, that was approved. Then we have case B-O-A, 157-378, with the address of 417-423-C Westworld Broadway, that was also approved. Next we have case B-O-A, 157-3885, with the address of 18 on circle, that was approved. Then we have case B-O-A, 151-8380, with the address of 104 Child Street, in this case was deferred to May 16th. Next we have case B-O-A, 152-162-4, with the address of 379-381, with the lambda, that was approved. Next we have case B-O-A, 155-438-16, with the address of 410-3, that was approved. Next we have case B-O-A, 157-504-1, with the address of 46 Chicken Top, top and street, which was approved. Then we have case B-O-A, 152-9077, with the address of 162-164-3, which was approved. Then we have two remaining cases, case B-O-A, 156-167-80, with the address of 14-Wishield Street, along with that, along with that we have case B-O-A, 156-295-1, both were approved. Next we have case B-O-A, 156-438-166, with the address of 32-Wari Avenue, towards and through. Finally we have case B-O-A, 156-376, with the address of 210 North Hobbit Street, which was approved. Now chair of the death is what we have from the suffering of the dating. Thank you, may I have a motion? I'm sorry, I may I motion to approve all the recommendation from the supercommittee. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Ralanzio. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Yes. Have we been joined by Ms. McAul? Okay, hearing none. The chair also votes yes, the motion carries. That then we shall move onto the hearing schedule for 930. Again, we have to prepare in case of first being case B-O-A, 153-868-6, with the address of 86, a story of street, along with that, we have case B-O-A, 153-87, closer, with the address also 86, the story of street. Yes. Yes, the applicant and all the representatives present on the day, the week of Sparta, 34. Yes, many of us have a kind of breath. I am the architect for the project in representing the owner, Natalie, Nell and Crasse. I, as a principal, she bought this property in 2018. And at the time, she bought it. At the time, she bought it, there were existing conditions that were there that directly relates to the violations and the while we hear. First of all, the basement was occupied. That was an existing unit, a two-bedroom unit. Secondly, the other item that was existing was the re-emportch was enclosed when she purchased it. So, basically, everything was existing. However, it was not co-compliant. So we had to recite it as a violation. And that's why we are here today. Now, we plan on making improvements that will sent by hopefully the zoning board. First of all, we are installing co-compliant exit windows at both bedrooms. We plan on enlarging the entryway that exit on to the driveway. Secondly, we plan, most importantly, we're going to install a sprinkler system. One of the violations relates to exitway access, which I think we have. There's a driveway that you can access out the unit into the street. The smallest mention of that driveway is 50.9, and the widest mention that driveway is 18-18-peak. So the idea to incorporate changes that we think will improve the existing condition of the free family of the basement unit and provide adequate and safe, egress for that basement unit. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I do have a question regarding who is an existing occupancy in regards to the basement. Is it being rented hours within the family and extended family member that lives there? I don't know. It's being rented. The basement is being rented as well. It's important that it is rented because the older needs those rents to satisfy their own mortgage. I don't see any issue with having a habitable basement. I do see some concerns regarding requesting a relief for building code violation. I think that they can be a remedy. It might just be that there has to be a sacrifice with the amount of bedrooms in the basement. I do think that since you are creating improvements, you should be able to do it without any kind of building code violations. That's my comment to my peers and everyone. Great. Thanks. Any other questions? Hearing none, man, how about public testimony? Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, can you guys hear me? Yes, we can. How you doing? We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We are doing a lot of work. We talk aboutBSI and last time, number 15, number 12, department, massage workflow, example. In fact, the kind of planning. In fact, the kind of planning�les the process, therefore the kind of planning will mean the collectivances and the change in platform and really providing support. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hand? question. I, we're willing to do that. I'm not sure they are whether or whether not she's on this hearing and that lean are you on? I think it's important for us to go through the community process. So I think it's important for us to leave with a neighborhood and present the project hopefully getting support from the neighborhood and the neighborhood organizations and two neighborhood organizations as well. Okay, will that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of deferral but I also would like for the applicant to explore a basement unit without any kind of a violation to use this time to explore that avenue. But the motion to perform it is a deferral. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Is there a date from Mr. Pat? Yes, Madam Chair. June 1st would be the next or the next day. Mr. Pat, is that acceptable? Yes, so as we can get on the name of the person presented to them before that day. I assume that. Welcome. Please, please connect with Mr. James and the ONS person. Yes. Thank you. Hello. I don't know but you should connect with the offline. Offline. Thank you. We will do that. Thank you. Thank you. And just a note that we have become a six-member board. So we are a six-member board today for any additional applicants. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. We'll go next to case B.O.A. 151-3573 with the address of 333 pre-warth street. It's the applicant's as well. And the lawyer represents President of the Danish Planned Accuses to the board. Can you raise your hand if you're on this? You're going to meet yourself as a panelist. No. I guess my lawyer I think he's on the way. You know what his name is? So we can look for a woman. I've made it to you, start. Go ahead. Okay. Great. Can you hear me now? Yes, we can. Thank you. I'm sorry. You know, I'm not a Zoom expert. We practiced yesterday, but it didn't work. So good morning, everybody. My name is Scott Holmes. And on the attorney, that records it's Newwind who is in the middle of trying to change a part of a piece of property that he owns at 333 Freeport Street in Dorchester. I'm not sure if the board is familiar with the Freeport Street, but this is a section that ductails off a dot-aub and then connects to Mara Sheep Boulevard. He brought this property honestly with the hope of having body art and body piercing on the ground floor with the second floor being available to him to rent to his brother or to his father. He didn't realize at the time, in all honesty, that this was going to be something where we need to go before the zoning board of appeals, because for some reason, this particular area is forbidden to have this particular business. I've done a lot of research in this area. So we're not trying to plop what society at once looked at was with some negativity, which was that it was growing in the bad crowd of the wrong people. Mr. Win owns a holistic gate that's on dot-aub and the reason why he's been trying to make the shift is he does not own that building and there's the threat that his landlord is going to convert it into condominiums. And so he went looking for another place to operate his business. He did submit yesterday a lengthy three pages with a lot of neighborhood work that we did in order to gain support. You'll see even though it's kind of hard to see, all the abutters have agreed to it and don't find any offense with it. The building could use some love and that's what he hopes to do. If I could just address a couple other things, please, this is a reasonable zoning relief because it's it's minimal to achieve the use of this house. If you're not familiar with this, I urge you to go on to Google and just look at what Freeport Street is. It's really it's there are sections set up for for industry, small industries. It does house a business right next to him on the other side of Everdeen Street is a it comes up as Everdeen Street address but actually it's three three seven three port. It houses four businesses in its nice building and no objection to that but I think an equal application of zoning rules and laws would be would be a wonderful break and a wonderful thing for this section of doorchester. I know that this bylaws or this this particular rules were written. I believe from my research in 2002 but times have changed and the homes why why don't you pause and let's see if we have questions from the board. Please. Thank you. Any any questions or concerns from the board? Okay hearing none let's let's take public testimony. I'm chair members of the board. Connor, new with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This 10th mayor's office could defer to the judgment board. Oh, and I so soon the butter is being on December 6 of 2023. There are no objections raised that that a butters meeting when I understand I believe the applicant has been in contact with the civic group. I mean do not have any letter of support or opposition on file from a butters or that civic association. I would end information with the deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Is this Mr. Hampton? Thank you Madam Chair members of the board Jeff Hampton BPD 8. We're in support of this. I want to give a little clarity on where this building is. It's really right next to the intersection of where Marcy and Free Forge Street done together. There are you know there's gas station on the corner and there's a union. A couple of houses and then I think there's a real estate office right at right next door. The reason why it's forbidden is because it's a residential zoning district. If you go in on that street it's a one family zoning area so we're in support of it because a bus it's on freeport it doesn't go into clam point at all so I just wanted to give a little clarity on where exactly this building is. It's on a major thoroughfare at the entrance to the expressway is right there too so but I do want to stay for the record that the BPDA is in support of this. Thank you Mr. Hampton. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. Motion to approve. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Betarraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair also moves. Yes. The motion carries good luck. Thank you much. Next we have. It's the only 156 7 9 2 5 of the address of 20 Pearl Street at the African annual the representative's brother. They explain to the board. Good morning Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Bullard. My name is James Christopher with the business 686 architects with the business address 10 4s road and by entry here tonight on behalf of my Patryushki who is the former owner of this property. The precipice of this project is that the property has been taxed as a 3 family since 2011. The owner thought the legal occupancy was a 3 family. The property was sold as a 3 family and during the sale the fact that the legal occupancy was a 2 family came to light so as such we filed applications with the city to correct the outlet to correct the occupancy from the 2 to 3 legally. There is no work to happen the building has 3 kitchens already set up as a 3 family. The previous owner was living there with his mother so they were using it as a 2 family. He lived with his family and she operated in the other unit. We did install a sprinkler system for as a life safety measure and that work is already completed but this is just for the legal change in occupancy. We held in a butters meeting in Metwith Columbia 7 Hill. There was some concerns about the future of the project but this owner and current setup is to change it to 3 and should any other projects be coming and that applicant went out to file to do that. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may I have public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board. Connor, Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This sound of Mayor's Office looked into a firt to the judgment of this board. So the back information with community process owned as soliciting the butters being February 20th. Stemming from that of butters meaning we did not receive any letters of support or an opposition. Some concerns as the applicant's representation mentions involves who owned the building and what the future of the building would eventually be. Don't want to meet Columbia's 7 Hill Civic Association Planning Committee that narrowly brought into support and then went on to the CSHCA's broader general membership which were to support with a wider margin. From that I will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Mr. Newman, can you just spell out CH double block for the rest of the day? Yes that's a Columbia 7 Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Sorry I'll avoid using that abbreviation. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Just got no raised hands. Okay. I'm sorry go ahead. No, Madam Chair members of the board. Liam from Councillor Fitzgerald's Office. Officers like you on my kids support this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion to file for one. Madam second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Melencia. Yes. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair also. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case view away. One five six eight three four two. With the address of one three four to one four east Mississippi. Is the applicant and the representative of the plans of the board. Madam Chair members of the board. We are proposing a two-storey addition to an existing single-storey building. This building is about 80 feet by 26 feet in width and the two-hopper stories would be occupied by two apartments each two bedrooms on each apartment. There are slightly over 800 square feet and the first one will be made as a restaurant. The existing entire floor is called in the occupier say the bar restaurant. We will reduce the size of that business to about 400 plus square feet in our two studios apartment. As you can see from that elevation we this building is adjacent to several high-rise buildings and a wide immediately across the street from the domestic street. Also on the left side if you stand in front of all the tourist street there are multiple houses that are about three stories in height. We met with the landmarks commission this building is in a historic landmark district and we would not be able to make any changes to the existing single-store building. Therefore we would reserve, restore that single-storey and we would build on top of it. The center of the world of the street is requested by the landmarks with marked the existing street wall and that street for the whole house in the height is consistent as well with all those buildings, residential buildings and other streets. This according to the landmark records this is a contemporary intrusion. There are records that are the most original buildings in 1898 as in storage buildings. However there is a frequent record from 1927 that makes reference to a business store. Proposal. The library is the active record for it. So as I said the room would reserve the existing structure and build a top respectively set by 40 whole houses or the next side of the building. The violations are standard. This is a transit oriented development. We are within less than a quarter of a mile of public transportation. There is obviously no parking. We have a rear yard ventilation, floor area ratio as expected in reasonable open space. And without having to go to the station on the right. Thank you Mr. Santana. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I pull the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. A con or new one with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This sounded Mayor soft to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information with community process. On this hosting of letters being on June 8 of 2023. A few concerns were raised about what residents felt was too much development going on in this area. Referencing a couple of BPD projects nearby as well as the shadow impact to the abutting of climate building. Afterward, we did hear from a neighbor on a butter in who's concerned about potential blockings, sunlight, and to wear a plant as well as concerns about construction impacts. The community aligns in Mission Hill express that they're in support of this application. The Mission Hill neighborhood housing services did not support because they felt the units will eventually be rented out to undergraduates, which they remain opposed to. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Sorry, I mean, I'll always see the members of the Councilor Dukin's office. I would like to read a statement on her behalf. This proposal is the title of the city needs more of. It makes use building serves the many needs of residents, both current and future. The applicant's proposed addition of housing on their site services. A great example of the opportunity for our respective property owners, Mission Hill, have to expand housing in the neighborhood that is so greatly needed. I ask the board and its members to vote in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? I have no additional waste hands. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to look for our motion approval with the provisional that the project undergoes us and landmarks commission right here. Do you want to keep it here? Sir Hagen, okay, thank you. Mr. Stavrich. Yes, Madam Chair. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This is better browser. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. This can auto. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case B-O-A157-002 with the address of 100 St. Alphonse Street. This is an auto for any case. The applicant's the undo of their representative's deployment. Case of the world. Good morning, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney John Pugini. On behalf of the proposal, we have 100 St. Alphonse Street. It's also known in numbers as 1558 Tremmon Street, Mission Hill. This is an article 80 live product that was approved by the VPDA board this past October. The property is made up of two parcels, which when combined will be a 20,687 square foot parcel. One parcel is owned multi-family residential and the other their front Tremmon Street is an A-QA shopping. This property is located at the corner of St. Alphonse and Tremmon Street with Pontiac Streets to left. Because I stated this proposal went through in with a two-year article 80 process, which commenced with an L.O.I., which was filed on July 22, 2021. The proposal is for a six-storey mixed-use building containing 95 residential apartments with approximately 3,200 and 28 square feet of first floor retail and 53 off-screen parking spaces. 44 of those spaces will be designated to the Boston Basilica, our run lady of perpetual help, a mission church under a prior agreement. The benefits associated with the proposal are significant, including 16 affordable units, 13 are at 70% AMI and 3 will be at 60% AMI. As you can see from the drawings, the development team together with the BPDA staff, BPD and public works, spent a lot of time on not only the design of the building, but also the improvements to the public domain. These improvements include the construction and expansion of sidewalks for a better pedestrian experience, the installation of street trees, watering the development, the expansion of an existing bus shelter, a $15,000 donation to the city parks funds, and over $49,000 to install a 15 space bike share station. This building will believe growth is certified, it will be all electric heating and swimming, a lot of saving features, increased insulation, electric car charges, encouraged to 25% of the parking, and the other 75% will be EV ready. Additionally, it's designed for the installation of solar. Working with B2D and the BPDA transportation for a designated pickup and drop off spaces, what we were on left. This proposal is a plan is dream checking all the boxes for the mayor's housing goals, by allowing greater density on major thoroughfare that is served well by transportation. With a three-minute walk to the green line at Brigham Circle and a five-minute walk to the orange line located at Roxburg Crossing, in addition to several bus lines located at Trumon Street, this truly is a walk as paradise. All of this without any displacement. This proposal transforms a blighted vacant site into much needed housing with significant affordable housing at that. At this point, I'd like to turn it over to Carlos Aurebe from Embark to walk to the plans and thanks again for the opportunity to present this proposal. Carlos? Hello. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming as I said it. I'm Carlos Aurebe, I'm here to present to the board today. And you're right. Going to the plans, if not, I canbl部 maternity brace me to that whatever work, for this one will certainly be the midterm. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So, we're substituting the reward list to it. So, we're substituting the reward list to it. So, we're substituting our reward list to it and then the reward list makes us as well. So, the reward list makes us as well. so, the reward list makes us as well. the reward list makes us as well. the reward list makes us as well. the reward list makes us as well. Our reward list makes us as well. Our third rated line indicates the difference, show us that! We're 퍼ftain and we're phonyiritous in the Windsor unit because we don't usually have We're 퍼ftain and we're profстве in the pounds of the small, which stands for F Hayır between only 30A systems, we also have B 4L for the most extreme We're ego-forting and you furniture for the most extreme Number one, as John had mentioned, we have a designated team score with each of these. One more. I'm sorry it's in the other direction, we're scrolling. Going to the first floor, there, thank you. We've got the rigorous positive of BBDA, where these calling improvements, one of us has been in full active in the corner at the base there with a over 3000 per-bit cap aid, and then with a separate lobby entry out of St. Alfonso's, which is at low on grade with the parking that we have right there. We also are showing a dedicated team building, building a trash, and with an in-buildage bike storage, which means that it can be de-standard. And that should be the thank you. Okay, thank you. Are there questions from the board? It's those of the exterior design and the building design. Yes, I think we have the last round. Mr. Williams, okay, go ahead. Are these here at Redwood World Hall? No, you're not going to get to that. Mr. Rodinard? Yes, they're rental, Mrs. Denver. Sorry. There. Any other questions? I do. If the BPDA project manager can speak about the community process, because we received some letters regarding kind of a change of address and some concerns regarding communication, regarding today's hearing, so it will be great if the BPDA project manager can speak on community process and what happened with the shift of the address. I believe Mr. Rodinard and Deam Polanco should be on this call. I can address the address change that's okay with you. Yeah. So when this part... I think it was brought up by the commission lying submission, Hill. So as with any project, when you go through the article 80 process, the address at that time was 1558 tremor. When you smit your plans for ISD, as you know, it's an architect. The address is establishing with a front door, the entrance to the building. So that is the way the St. Alphonse's address came from. So it's just an ISD internal thing. The address, you know, the building itself could be named anything down the road, but it is... Okay. I think the BPDA project manager would like to speak. Yes. Mr. Polanco is on. Thank you. Let's hear from him. Can you hear me? We can. Okay. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Daniel Polanco here, project manager, BPDA. I was... Yes. I think the proponent can speak on the change of address. I was not aware of the change of address. However, in our internal review, you know, the project did get BPDA approval. However, they made the changes throughout the process and the planning and urban design supported these changes. While there was some opposition, they decomplete requirements of Article 80. We felt that it was appropriate development. And yes, we were aware of a lot of opposition. We did communicate through our BPDA process. The meetings we held, the public meetings, and all the changes that were made internally with the proponent were distributed to the community. Again, Madam Chair, I can ask you to speak on the change of address. I wasn't aware of that. However, we do... Like I said, we do have wind-flow-criminal process. And we were aware of the opposition. However, again, through our Article 80, we do host meetings and we do publish them online. And I folks, you know, are in our BPDA website database. They get the distribution of the meeting, so... Yeah, the problem. So we have the right... I think the question is about community, the community piece, more so than the address. Well, it might be... Some of the critique has been that because of the address change, there was not enough notification for the communities to be present today to speak on the project. So I just wanted to understand that duration. And then also, if you can speak on what was on record of the amount of opposition versus supporter. Right, and I was... Again, in terms of the... I think the proponent has more information on that in SBPDA. We didn't know much about this address change until recently. Again, I can't speak on that. However, on the opposition, yes. A lot of it came from the history that the proponent has with the community. And again, in terms of design, in terms of... We were able to manage changes, which, you know, what we recommended they did. There was a lot of opposition because of the long history that the proponent has with the community. And I guess there's some history there, and that was a lot more so the opposition. Again, the way we communicate are probably meetings just to the BPDA website. And again, I can't... I don't have an answer on the address because I wasn't... You know, we were in a way we passed it on our BPDA board at 50-58 Trembler Street. The way it was advertised by the ZBA, you know, we just had nothing to do with that. Okay, well... I see the chair of one of our civic groups there, so maybe we can open it up to public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, I'm meeting with the Mayor's Office of Public Services. This time, the Mayor is absent deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard, this has gone through a lengthy BPDA lead community process, standing back from, I believe, March of 2022 with the first impact advisory group. Throughout that process, there's been revisions to this project. I understand that the applicant has worked with the Mayor White Church to provide parking for parishioners. We did receive that letter from the Community Alliance of Mission Hill. I believe they'll be able to speak more to that, raising their opposition to this proposal, citing concerns about the height and the style of units being proposed. I believe most studios that they feel are not conducive to having long-term residents stay in the community. Without the first report of this time, thank you. So, can I hear from Bruce Bickerstaff, who seems to... he was the number of IAG. I just want to understand that process too. If you're available, Mr. Bickerstaff. Jessica, is he... Oh, I don't see a single visitor. Oh, okay. All right, well then, let's keep going and hear from that. I see Mr. Maun... Hello, Martin Maunone, Mr. Chair and Mr. Bort. I'm here for the Community Alliance of Mission Hill, and as was mentioned, we voted anonymously against this proposal, and this was in line with many submitted letters from the Community. I want to quickly mention the change of address. We were completely unaware of it. As you saw, on the plans that were shown, was the act of 100 Santa Fanzas, but it was really 1558. I'm concerned that many people wouldn't attend today because they just didn't know. I heard complaints from neighbors who were notified and others who were not notified, and more confusing. I saw in one of the slides that the address was marked as 130 Santa Fanzas, so I think it's very confusing. Regarding the reason for our affusion, it was not so much about the reputation, it was mostly about that the project was too high, too dense, and it was a little bit too low. I think there's only nine parking spaces dedicated to 95 units. It's all rented, and we are concerned that the transiency in the neighborhood will further increase. And last take is, we're also concerned whether there's a deep restriction in place that has been discussed, the avoid renting it to under radius. Many of these buildings have become dormitories in the neighborhood, and maybe some of the other community members can think of this, but the community lines and basically the avoid renting majority of residents are opposed to this. Thank you. Thank you. Can you pose? Yes, please. Yes, good morning. Can you hear me now? Yes. Hello. Yes, we can hear you, sir. Okay. You're welcome. Good morning, August. There's only more. If there are any questions that you have for me specifically, I can speak to the issues. Well, I think we'd like to understand the I.A.G. What transpired and what the I.A.G. and support are not. This is not like a conversation, so if you have testimony, you want to provide, please, or not. In the case that it was, as you can see from the results that the I.A.G. was in favor of there was a bit of concern through the community, but the I.A.G. as a whole would simply be the redevelopment of that I saw for a number of years. Thank you. Any other reasons? Yes. How about we have Patricia and Julie? And then the evidence. Patricia, go ahead. Good afternoon. What about Julie? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, honorable members of this and the chairwoman. Appreciate the opportunity to speak. We represent my name is Julie. We represent the butter located at 1548 and 1550. Clamon Street and 140-142 St. Alfonso Street. We share the concerns raised previously about the change of address, but specifically I'm asking the board to consider the objections that were raised in our comment letter of April 26, 2024 concerning the outsize impact on these two parcels of by 1548 LLC. They are surrounded basically on three sides by this project. And while I heard Mr. Bigger staff say that it might be good to see this eyes or undeveloped eyes or being put into use, that doesn't need to be with 95 units. Everything that's wrong with this project is based on its excessive far and all of the things that flow from the noise, privacy, light in air. My clients' properties will be in shatter as pretty much in perpetuity three seasons of the year. There are issues concerning traffic and congestion not just for vehicle traffic but for pedestrians. And the construction management program that's going to need to be in place to avoid the total destruction of both residences and businesses during what is obviously going to be a multi-year project being developed this city. Projects vary need for the significant number of variances none of which we can tell that it's actually entitled to a Google Earth search area version will show that the property is the same, shape size, soil conditions, etc. as the surrounding property. So at the very least we would ask the board to give much further consideration to whether this applicant is entitled to these things and only after providing additional information as to the impacts on the direct and immediate butters both in terms of light air traffic and noise. And also all of the construction issues that are going to flow from this project, there's nothing there's a vacant three-story building there right now. The addition of 95 units into this neighborhood which very well may end up being housing for students as we heard is going to create a substantial impact on my client and on this neighborhood. And so we asked the board to deny the request to believe they haven't demonstrated their title to it in any way but at the very least it needs to be studied much further as to whether it's entitled to the significant zoning relief that's requested. And we rely on our comments in detail in our letter of April 26th. Thank you for the time I appreciate it. Thank you. Patricia? Thank you. Can you hear me now? Yes. Yes ma'am. Thank you. My name is Patricia Flaherty. I live at 122 Kalimas Street in Mission Hill. I'm also the Executive Director of Mission Hill Neighborhood Housing Services Community Development Group working in Mission Hill since 1974. And I submitted a letter. I won't read the entire letter. I do want to say a couple of things. One is I know that the BKDA represented it said that the opposition was related to the developer's relationship in the community but I will say that Mission Hill NHS supported two of these developers previous previous developments on Tremont Street. And I believe those developments we reached an agreement on design and program that was supportable and then we reached an agreement related to undergraduate student housing. In this case we could not reach an agreement related to the design and program. As you can see that there were some changes made as the BPDA representative pointed out related to the facade on Tremont Street. However, if you look at the project as it goes up Pontiac Street and St. Alfonso Street, we maintain that the project is too high, too dense, and truly overshadows the three families that are on both sides of this development. It does not fit into the residential context on this side of Tremont Street as it is marching up the hill. We believe the BPDA did a disservice to many able-witting while I worked with some of the folks who testified many times before. I have to say that Mission Hill NHS had a representative on the IAG, the IAG Navier supported this project. If you look through the BPDA website there are hundreds of letters opposing this project throughout the community process. And the BPDA determined that they would move on with the project. At a density that we feel does not do a service to the neighborhood and act with a program of mostly studios and one bedrooms that also will not service the neighborhood or the city in terms of stabilizing rental housing or stabilizing home ownership which we would like to see in this location. Additionally, it is many of the items that were raised by the attorney for the project as benefits are requirements. And the provision of parking for the Basilica was a requirement related to the sale of the project. It was not a community benefit. And in fact, part of the problem with that requirement is that there is too few parking spaces for the development proposed and the proposal got higher and denser in order to support that commitment to parking that was required as part of the acquisition. Miss Fliery, can you please wrap up with your other reasons? I'm sorry. So this project is requiring more than six significant zoning variants. There is not mitigation, especially at this busy corner at the corner of Trumont and St. Alfonciss street. We still don't understand how deliveries and drop ups are actually going to work right at that light. And we believe that there are many unaddressed negative impacts to this project and we ask for your consideration of our concerns. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Thank you Madam Chairman for Jeff Hampton BPD 8. I just wanted to clarify from this better for us about the project's community process. There were three IAG meetings and there were also three public meetings held. I believe they were all advertised in the Gazette permission bill. They were also sent out to the subscribers of the Mission Bill neighborhood update list. So I know there were at least six public hearings that were advertised held three IAG, three public. I just wanted to clarify that a little more for Miss Fett of Baraza. I'd been wander to think that we didn't have an answer for. No problem. I just wanted to make sure that the residents knew that the hearing was today and it previously had a different address. Okay. No, I just wanted to clarify in case you had any more questions. Thank you. Just go other ways. Sure. We have three more. You want me to try to get to the other. Let's see what we can get through. Okay. Go to Patricia. Be just spoke. We're not off to sign. Great. She's well. Hi, my name is Shava. I'm a resident of Mission Hell. I just wanted to say I'm in support of this project. I walk by that unit every single day when I walk home. It is really nice for me and not to mention it kind of for people who walk by every day. It's almost eerie. It's just an abandoned empty building in the middle of Mission Hell. It's a brand new building with us in life and makes more vibrant to the neighborhood. So I'm just here to say that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ma'am. Ma'am, chair members of the board. This is mine upper ice representant. One person meeting carpenters and a labor worker in the Boston. We take our members and live in Mission Hell. It is very important to point out that this project will help to alleviate the mission house in the city of Boston. As mentioned at the last BPPA for many projects that have been approved are not moving forward because of lack of funding. It's a big problem we have out there. A lot of projects are not moving forward. And if you saw hopefully this project is greatly needed. Thank you. Have a nice day. Okay. I see one more. Let's stop with that. The last phrase here. James, is it James? James? Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. My name is James. I also live in the neighborhood. I actually went to college in the neighborhood. Month I graduated. I kind of left for a bit. It just wasn't because of the very minimal housing for a lot of students who do graduate. And I've been actually following this project for a while. I've only been seeing kind of like four bedrooms, five bedrooms out on this neighborhood for a bit now. So I was actually very excited. I tried to get into the other properties nearby that were renovated. Such as I think like the Traymont. I think there was also one longwood row of value properties, even the longwood. However, those projects, the properties were getting rented way too quick. There was no availability. All the other ones that I had options for were more so, I would say, like very uncareful. The landlords I feel so in the neighborhood don't really try to improve the properties as much. So when I saw a project like this, kind of people in our industry were looking at it. We're kind of following it. We're also trying to see more happening to the neighborhood only because a lot of us are kind of getting a little bit pushed out. Just because there's no one bedroom housing for just a single adult. I'm now compared to finding four or five bedrooms and we kind of don't want to live that college lifestyle. So I mean, just wanted to say I'm in full support of this project and I think a lot of us are excited for it. I think it's going to bring a lot of life to the neighborhood. Thank you. Mr. Bojane, do you want to address the question about the deed restriction? It sounds like it's been something. Yeah. No, cheers. A very important point. So the proponent has had these agreements in place and his other properties as well that they're he puts a deed restriction so there's no undergraduate rentals and you know undergraduates will live in the property and we are more than happy to have that as a barbeque of this decision. We have represented that to the community. We represent that to Patricia Flarrity and her staff and NH mission Hill neighborhood housing services. So we've right from the jump that was out there and continues to this moment. Thank you. Is there anything else you'd like to address before we were there any other questions from the board? I have another question regarding to the BPA project manager regarding Article 80 large project review. Has there been a kind of impact report done in regards to displacement in the area of mission Hill and whether this actually operates or reduces that trend because you potentially, you know, when you do have smaller studio, you are kind of catering to as mentioned non families. So does does the Article 80 have that type of review? I know that they do that with transportation, but has that is that in play right now? Yes, yes, it does. We have at the time review housing folks that work with the, we also work with the office and mayor's officer housing to review all that and that information that data was actually incorporated into what the projections were for the among the units that they had. So yes, we do have folks work internally with that and we make sure we let the people know how much what action do we need to see in terms of. And also obviously in terms of a broader area where where displacement is that all that stuff we do cover and we actually do add that to the board members well. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Mayor motion. I'm also to approve of the dearest version of the provisional the dearest actions and no undergraduate housing. Second. So that happened. Yeah, okay. Thank you. Mr. Stubbridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. No. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Vanado. Yes. Here will yes, the motion carries. And you're in the name. Next we have case. Be aware. One five four. Seven three one five. The address was two sixty two seventy four friend street. This is a campus case. It's the applicant and the representative or the representative president. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mr. Stubbridge. Hello, everyone. This is Mike Ross, Dr. for the law for a print so Val. I'm here with Matt McCann from a send is a director of government relations. Regarding what is an existing retail dispensary that opened in May of 2021 at this address. I'm going to do so only matter. I have some visuals. I don't see them up for some reason. But you know, just want to let you know that we get prepared and the board has. Understood. And so there basically there's no no one to be done. No, no interior exterior changes. You're just adding you want to add the medical marijuana use correct? That's correct. There's actually two items. Madam Chair, one is at medical marijuana use. As you mentioned, and the second would be to remove a provisional. Decision that says the, let me see a five year renewal call. When this was approved, this is one of the first dispensaries. The first dispensary I think when it was approved for adult use was very early. And I think the book at the time was tentative and said come back to us in five years. Or a renewal. So, you know, since then, there's been lots of. Dispensaries have opened. Been knowing since at this particular dispensary. And so we would now like to remove that. That provides a going forward to those that two items. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Is this for the same applicant, Mr. Valls? Yes, it is. Mr. Valls, it's just to add medical use in order to add medical use to say, you know, in Massachusetts, you actually need to be cultivating as well. For this reason, there's very few medical operators throughout the city and throughout the state. Because you also have to grow, cultivate somewhere in Massachusetts. It's just a rule from the CCC. It's actually pretty unique to Massachusetts. They're thinking about changing it. But in the meantime, in order to have medical, you need to be one of those companies that cultivates as well. Ascend is one of those companies. And they're not like to add the medical use at this facility. Thank you. Thank you. May we have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored. And with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, the son of the mayor's office could refer to the judgment of this board on a social community meeting on December 11th. I'd like the one on to meet with the West End Society, which offers a letter of non-objection. I'll run away and make a concern for this time, but refer to the board. Thank you. Hello, yes. Lily with Councilor Finsophistic and I'd like to read another statement of support. As the district councilor for the Wolfend Triangle, I'm confident that such an addition to a sense license would be a productive addition to their business. Having operated here for the past two and a half years, the business is now familiar with the neighborhood. Having extensively engaged with the West End Society Association, and as the proper operations and capacity to offer products for medical use as well. I ask the board and members to vote in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Jay? I'm going to Madam Chair, members of the board. Jay Washington, we have the Downtown North Association. Our board met with the applicant in their team recently to discuss the addition of medical marijuana distribution at the site, and we have no objections to like to be recorded in support. Thank you. Thank you. No additional reasons. Okay, without a motion. I'm making motion, I hope, with a lot of. I have a second. Or else a second. Mr. Stoverich? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Barrazo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. It's Benado. Yes. There are votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck very much. Have a next day. Next we have case of the way. One five six. Three six. Two one. With the adios of one 98 Married Street. The applicant and the other representatives vote. They explain to the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lennon, so the business address of 245 Sumner Street. East Boston, behalf of the petitioner and the honor of 198 Married Street. Probably jumped out of slide three at this time. I'm going to share relatively straightforward proposal. We are proposing to change the existing use and occupancy of the mixture's building. What has ground level retail? Two residential units above. We're eliminating that ground level retail. Proposing that that is a residential unit, which will become the units for the current owner. If you want to slide that, jump out of the next slide, please. Just a couple of different views of the existing conditions here. As you can see, it's the building on the right side with the yellow awning. The signage for the retail use would be removed. Next slide, please. To show you our flood playing and flood hazard districts were not located in the flood hazard district. However, we were cited for coastal flood resiliency, only a district as well as Gcon. This was filed under the prior commercial article 53, and therefore, C-Frog is not applicable to this size project, although Gcon is. We're also cited for I-Frog, which expired in November of 2023. Next slide, please. Jump down next slide, please. So our site plan here shows the existing building. We're not proposing any change. I would respect the footprint of the building or the height of the building. As a result, in light of the weeks since the UNM and Seller adopted by the zoning commission last week, this project would be in compliance with the new provisions of Article 53, specifically the new sub district, which would be EBR-3 within the EBR-3 and three family and residential uses allow. Although we were cited for insufficient use of oil, but space which typically would have been a item that would have been triggered as a result of adding residential units, that requirement is eliminated under the amended Article 53, and therefore, this would be legally pre-existing not-of-the-fallage structure. Any of the new dimensional controls, including maximum block coverage and minimal permeable area, we would be exempt from since this is not necessarily a project that we're adding any additional square footage. We're not proposing any available space in the open-based and area that will continue to be operated for utilities, storage, etc. We may work as being proposed as on that first level, which is the prior retail location, if we could just zoom out a little bit from a little bit better. And that would be, as I mentioned, the owners here that owns the building. Next slide, please. As you can see on our elevations, again, we're not changing any of the respectful height of the building or the existing footprint that exists today, but we're not changing any of the overall height of the building. We're not changing any of the overall height of the building, but we're not changing any of the overall height of the building. The former version of Article 53 would have required additional parking under the new amendment Article 53 and however, parking for up to three units. There's no requirement, so we would be in compliance with that as well. I believe the BBE didn't recommend approval for this, and I will pause there and answer your questions of the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? We're in NADMIA Public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Olivia Gomez with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Oh, and I suppose you know, butters meeting for this project on September 13th, 2003. Two of butters were present on the call. Both of butters agreed that a parking variance was preferable given the proximity to the nearby school. The proponent met with the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association and the group voted to support the project. Effis time, our office would like to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Maybe the best part from the councilor, the councilor, will let the board support the project. Thank you. I see no additional resistance. Thank you. We've got a motion. Madam Chair, I took the floor of motion approval with the PDA Design Review, a paying special attention to address resiliency given that it's prone to cost of flooding. I'm sorry. There was no exterior work being proposed. I'm just curious if the PDA design review is applicable. I don't see anything. Do you want to weigh in on that one? I'm sure. Yeah, please no exterior work. I don't want it. It's not for a motion of approval. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Conato. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 1-5-6-3-7-2-0 with the annual 200 Everett Street. Yeah, we can't go there. Representative Williams of Woodwood. Thank you. Good morning again. Madam Chair, members of the park, Richard Lins. Business address of 245 Sumner Street. East Austin. We have the petitioner Ali Abdullah and Yoni Adagyoz. They are the owners of property at 200 Everett Street. We can scroll right down to slide 11. I think we'll be helpful. Slide 11, piece of. A lot of things. Yes. Thank you. Perfect. So Madam Chair, members of the board, this is a pre-existing single family dwelling. Located the Jeffery's Plum section of East Boston. This is a choralock condition located in the corner of Everett and Paramount Street. Our proposal would change the use of an occupancy of the building from a one family to a three family, an ad-eferential addition to the building, as well as perform a number of safety and life upgrades that will be provided by the building. This is also, and I'll try to be more brief about my zoning explanations, but because of the new zoning, recently adopted, this two would be an EB-R3 district. A three family dwelling is permitted within the district, about two 35 sheep height, which is what we're proposing. As I mentioned in the past presentation, there is no parking requirement. We originally did intend to include actually parking of the rear of the property. However, based upon understanding, and I can't believe we need to drive a buyer to our left, we've eliminated the parking from the site, and that is still a combined condition on the current zoning. In addition, we reduced our proposed rear of the property as part of this project to allow for more access, lighten air for the direct-to-butter, and that direct-to-butter is requested that we've also provide them with easement-writing over our property to access the rear yard out to Arrowwood Street, which we've agreed to do in connection with the modifications of this project. If we want to jump down to the next slide, I can show you the existing site plan. As you can see, as I mentioned, this Cornwall condition shows the building pretty much going a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, and a relatively short setback of the rear of the property, which is a condition that's pretty typical in this section, if you've paused them. There is a rear deck off the back of the building. We are proposing to stay within the envelope of our building, as well as the rear deck, again, based on our conversations, with the direct-to-butter. If we want to jump down to slide 19 please. So we can see here for our proposed ground level, which is a full walk-out condition to the rear of the property, as well as the upper level, which means part of the first unit. We do maintain, again, the existing footprint of the building, as well as the rear deck condition, and something that we've hidden into with the direct-to-butter. Next slide please. As you can see here with our second and third levels, we are proposing a one and a two-bedroom unit, and we do propose a roof deck that will be exclusive to the upper level unit only. Next slide please. From an elevation standpoint, we are showing the right side of our building, as well as the front. It's part of the architectural features for the addition we do propose on-bos that are consistent with the Diminimus projection policy from the city of Boston, which allows us to create that architectural feature above the first model, but within 24 inches of the building itself, so we don't extend out further than 24 inches. It does provide additional space proposed units, as well as a feature that is pretty consistent with a number of the projects that have been completed along average street excite lines. Let's see the rear elevation, as well as our right side elevation, which shows it in relationship to the bottom to our left. Again, you can see the rear decks, as well as the access to the roof deck. With respect to the relief, I've not online the last project that we just presented. This was filed for the amendments to Article 53, when it's worth that, because we were cited for matters such as re-variant side yard, because of the proposed addition. Those violations would be eliminated under du-sending, since the amended Article 53 permits vertical additions that same enough with real development to be allowed, as a matter of right, provided they don't exacerbate any of the setbacks that are currently non-conforming under the existing conditions. On addition, we were cited for usable open space. Useful open space would be a requirement of Article 53, where you add additional units, you would be required to add open space for each unit. Again, because this would be a legally pre-existing footprint, our building lot coverage and permeability would not be affected since we would be in pre-existing condition. However, by making the modifications that we propose, we are actually adding permeability, so that weird portion, which is a bill we're currently, will be created to be part of the permeable surface. Then with respect to the FOIA ratio, the current condition would be done performing under the prior origin of Article 53. There is no FOIA ratio maximum, any longer, under proposed articles in the constraints, whether no lead enacted Article 53, and therefore we would comply with that as well. We also cited the GPI, which we do have for compliance letters that we put in and I by which expired in November of 2023. I will pause there and answer any questions in the board. Thank you. Can you confirm the easement that we discussed several of your butters waiting on that, not just 198. What's the easement cover, which moved back? It's been moved back to the slide 13. Does the cover 192 to 190 mean? No, it only covers our butter to our left. Okay, so 198. 190 correct. Okay. Other questions from the board? If Jeff Hampton can just be gone, asks us to reverse deck from an exterior stair, which is interior to the unit. That actually wasn't a concern about this housing. Yeah, so that's what is, are you okay with having exterior roof access, moving forward on projects? I know that it's preferable to have interior access to the roof just to kind of mitigate noise from the exterior and also to create not kind of open access from the ground to the roof, just for security measures as well. Well, I can't say about projects going forward. I know in the past we have approved access to roof decks from spiral staircases, but it's something not a trade-up. I can look into with staff here. Yeah, I mean, there's a rise in the regardless that's recommended to review the roof deck, but I'll just add that as well. It'll be great to kind of get your stance on it. Yeah, I know very well. It's awesome, it's critical. Yeah, I mean, we're not opposed to the roof deck. I think it was just, you know, the setbacks from the roof edge that was a concern for us. Okay. That's what we want to take a look at, and we want to make sure that we have a good foundation for us. Okay. That sounds good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I can just add one brief item. So I do appreciate Ms. Bener-Brathas' comments. So we do note that these are two balconies at the lower levels that is don't access up to the roof from the ground. So we do appreciate that. That's one of the reasons why we were proposing this. In other instances, we do agree that we have the stairs and somewhat of a security issue, and we would not want that either. So we fully understand. Thank you. With that, we have public testimony. In Marine Madam Chair, members of the Board of the Medical Mass, with the Mayor's Office and the Board of Services, OLS hosted a butter is meeting for this project on January 4, 2024. Two butter is represent on the call. The Director of Butter Shirt could strong concerns about access to the back of this property being your strategic future of the project. The back of this property is his emergency exit in the second Egress. And the proponent met with the Jeff Lysquitney Board Association, the group voted in February to oppose the project. The vote was for and support in an opposition and one abstaining. Based on an email sent to OLS, we had a 20-year-old attorney lens. It seems that the butter's concerns were addressed, and his opposition was withdrawn. There are offices that don't receive the letter from this butter. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Do you see a raised hand brining looking at the testimony here? I just wanted to follow up on it. We did come to an agreement. I just want to make sure that there's a provision or something in this confirming that easement in the back that we had discussed. So I'm the director of butter next door. Can you say something, Amy Flaudgens? Brian Ganon, 198, Everett Street. Thank you. Have no additional risk yet. Madam Chair, just briefly, I know the past facts of the Board has been not to include private arrangements, equally, eavesince. The eavesince is not required for the project. That is a private agreement between the parties. We have a private agreement that is not something that I did this morning for. It is in the business of leasing. We made the commitment. I made the commitment on the record. I have communications with the Empire. We will allow that commitment based upon the terms that we provided to that Empire. Thank you. Well, that may have motion. Madam Chair, go ahead, David. You go ahead and put the motion. I'm closing to my room with BBD. Is that any of your? That was second. We're all second. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Let's take a five minute break. We'll do a remiss just after a woman. Thank you. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll ask you to start ERT for that person, so that she knows how to translate it. The translator, would you like to begin? Ms. Wen. Ms. Wen. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Wen. Yes. Ms. Wen. Yes. The person who has all their information has been targeted to other people, and Mrs. Wen. No. The person who is currently targeted from ERT has been targeted. Thank you. The person who is currently in ERT has been targeted. Thank you. Ms. Wen. Yes. Ms. Wen. Yes. I have seen that we have donated 2 billion to the ERT. You must have been able to see the virus. by the board and the approvals have to do with off-street parking, FAR, a lot with building height and side yard set type. Afterward, the applicant, you know, during construction preparing for construction, the applicant ran to an issue with a large tree in the back of the building. You might have read about it where it appeared impossible to save the tree. The applicant agreed to work with the mayor's office, the council's office, the BPDA, in order to change the project, which is why we're here today. The applicant wanted to take the rear portion of the building and I'll show you in a second, and taking that portion and putting it on the top of the building. I can show you that in a second. That man baster slides two and three show a comparison of a little hard to see, but it's really just to give you a sense there of the before and after. Left is the 2022 plan on the right, is today's plan that's in front of you today, and slide three, another vantage as well. 2022 on the left, when a approved project, 2023 will be proposing today. You go to the all the way man baster, go ahead, Madam Attupper. Now, Mr. Bajar, you go to slide ten, A1 is the site plan. It's several slides down, this will show you the next. Yeah, that's great. As you can see from this slide here, the rear yard setback in this district is required to be 20, but we now have this is really twice at 39 feet, nine inches. Previously, it was 28 feet, three inches, so we moved it approximately 11 and a half feet. And you see that little dash red line along the back, that's where it was, and now you see there where it is. I'm going to go to the next slide. This is, we'll just walk you through the four plans of the building now. This is the basement, it's all storage. That's what it was previously. You will see ramps on the side of the building on the right side. I'll show you that on the next slide. The next slide is the floor plan for what we're calling the first floor. You know, there's a substantial slope from the front of the building to the back of the building, and that ramp is what brings you really up an entire floor from the front. That follows the right side of the building where the bottom of your screen, that allows the unit to be an accessible, fully accessible unit. And what we have here is unit one and unit two. Unit one is, they're both, they're all three bedroom two baths, all six units in this project. Unit one here on the left or top of your screen is one thousand one hundred sixty one square feet, and unit two is one thousand one hundred and forty three square feet. And the next slide will show you units three and four. Unit three is eleven seventy two unit four is eleven eighty three also a three bedroom two bath. And the next unit these last four units I showed you were really substantially similar. This is the unit that changed a little bit. We created a duplex of these units. So unit five and unit six are now duplex with that little half story that's above them. So in total you're only out of sixteen eighteen for unit five and sixteen twenty three for unit six. And the last four plans slide that will show you that half story, falling at a mesonene level. Here you go. That's right. And then Bessert has a little front area as well set back from the street. That's essentially the additional space that was locked off the back of the bed. So we were cited for additional lot area. Really an article that's three F five thousand. This second building doesn't have an additional lot area requirement but we were cited for that. And then we were cited for FAR again like previously so you know not sure we needed to. However the FAR is exactly the same actually. It's 1.42 it was 1.42 in 2022 it's now 1.42 today. We were cited for new units for the six units in a three F five FAPS. We were again cited for stories for height but this time we were also cited for FIPE for height which is absolutely warranted. We're now at 51 six as measured from the sidewalk out front closer to 40 as measured from the rear. And then finally we were cited for open space. Three F five thousand requires 150 per unit. We are well over that we're close to 2,000. We're supposed to have 900 so we got cited for it but we didn't need to be cited for that. And then finally we were cited for open space. I'll pause there and see if there are any questions. I think we're going to have to go to the board. You mentioned that you were creating an accessible ramp on the side. It's to bring accessibility to which unit? Thank you Miss Benaraza. If you go to slide to the floor plan that that's where slide one I mean you'll see it's to create access to unit two. Here I believe however Miss Benaraza you could do you could make access to both unit two and unit one you can see there how the rear it brings you to the rear of the building there up up the side that that much slope is really needed in order to get that ramp all the way up there. So once you enter the rear of the building you really could go in either direction but but unit two the one that's on the lower half of the screen there was specifically designed with the turning radiuses in mind as you can see by the small turning radius at the door. However these units are substantially similar almost the same so really you could you could get access to both units one and unit two and that deck as you can see on unit one. Guys no problem can you pause to let the interpreter speak? I'm sorry mister They have deck on me I mean the unit above you know one with the deck there that deck ultimately travels to the rear of the building as well and connects to the ground at the rear of the building too. But theoretically you could have you have access from the front to the two units and you can go all the way to the back door to have access to the patio. You don't necessarily need accessibility kind of access to the sides. You could have access to the patio from inside your unit. You mean for unit one? I think yeah, you can do yeah, you can have it for both, right? Oh, I see what you're saying. I see what you're saying. Well, this will allow you to gain access. You just have to have it's even potentially garden at the rear. You would have to create the rear to some extent if you were to have just outdoor access. Understood, yeah. I mean for instance, you can. Yeah, I'm just making note that you just have, you know, your building is already maximizing itself in the upper line and then you're just using the two kind of open space of the side yard is to just do. I mean, you know, ramping structures understood. I do think that ramp on the bottom is required. We had a ramp initially in 2022. I think you could probably get away with without the deck on that other side. We're happy to look at that in the BPD as I review process that this should pass today. Okay, let's. And then I'm starting the other thing. Get away with the interpreter. I'm not trying to. You guys please pause. Thanks. Yeah, the. Okay, any other questions from the board? Let's open it up to public testimony. I was going to say we have Vietnamese interpreters rising way of someone who needs it. Maybe they could go first. I'm sure that any time I make though. Caron, even with the mayor's office and neighborhood services, this time the mayor is offered to refer to the judge with this board. Previously, I could receive support from the Jamaica Plane neighborhood council in August of 2022. In 2023, concerns about the preservation of mature tree on the property emerged. The applicant has worked with the BPA to alter designs to save the tree for the past few months. After a month of design, a few of the out consummated plans that preserve the tree and maintains the unit count. The BPA is now comfortable with the design as it maintains accessibility and preserves the tree. At this time, the mayor's office has not had any other questions or concerns. We defer to the board. Thank you. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. Thank you. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. Thank you. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. I would like to thank the mayor for the support and support of the board. Okay. Say. Oh, yeah. Hi. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I live across on one of Mr. Eller across from Ken Pope, who's backyard overlooks the lot. And I just want to say, yes, I am really happy that we are going to preserve the tree because we needed the tree canopy for clean air and for the tree canopy for clean air. And for heat control in the summer. And I also want to point out, obviously, that if that tree would be moved, the whole hillside of collapse, and it would collapse right into the 72 white bar. So this is, you know, also a really practical consideration. But mostly, you know, I just want to say that, you know, the neighbors also, the new neighbors at the 72 white bar gap will also be able to enjoy the same, you know, cooling effects that we the neighbors want. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So I'm going to ask the pause here because I think all of it seems to me that most of the feedback is positive. If there's anyone who's not in support, if you're in support, can you put your hands down? And if you're not in support, can you raise your hands so we can make sure we hear from both sides? In the meantime, can, uh, can, uh, okay, thank you. Thank you for putting the armrest info. So just get any raise hands in opposition? Yeah, Matthew? No, I'm sorry. It was in support. Okay. Okay. So I, I'm just trying to help move us along because I can tell from the chat that there's a lot of support. And so I just thank you for expressing that. So I'm going to ask if there are any other questions from the board. During the autumn, can I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that the plans be reviewed by BPDA to ensure that tree roots are protected from all slight excavation. And another, um, special attention to the site planning, the landscaping and the first, uh, ground floor to work with the context typology that you see of the ground floor. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Brasa? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. The chair also votes yes, the motion carries. So I would encourage the applicant to go to revisit speaking with your neighbors who have additional questions about, you know, the obverse, etc. So please do that. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, members. Okay. Thank you, so next case and I don't think we need to translate her for that one, but, uh, so yes please proceed. The next two are companion cases. First being case B.O.A. 156-2423 with the address of 12 Mario room. Along with them, they have case B.O.A. 156-2421 with the address of 12 R Mario room. If the applicant and were there, the representative code will be explained in case the board says. Hi, um, Linda, is that you? Let me, I sent a request. I'm going to give you. I'm going to move on you to thank you. Mrs. Linda. Okay. Are you on for this? Will you be speaking up with this proposal? Um, we thought that's where I was. Is she on? Okay. I'm going to make a list. Okay. I'm not sure. Yes. Hey, man. First of all, to call you interesting that I didn't realize that it was so straight. Yeah. Yeah. It was non-makes just going on. I'm not going to see. Just going to please mute. No. Yeah. I guess. Okay. We got. All right. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Can everybody hear me? Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. So this is a small existing home in. I'm going to go to the. Right off of Washington Street on. Murray Hill. And. Our. Both both the existing house. And the existing garage, which is now demolished. We had a separate permit for the demolition of the garage. And the demolitions. Marially stemmed from the fact that. The house is located on a. Existing non-conforming lot that's 4,000 square feet and 40 feet wide instead of 5,000 square feet and 50 feet wide. We're proposing a modest family room addition. And the. And the. And the. Required rear yard is. 40 feet and with the addition we're. At 37 feet. And the. Most noticeable changes are probably that we will be making is. Will be removing all the vinyl siding and restoring the exterior to its original. Which signals. And replacing all of the trim that was removed. And the. Looking at the back here. The. The rear porch will be demolished. And. The addition would be on the left. Approximately. From the left side of the house there to where that porch is. And. And there. So this shows the existing garage which is no longer there. And you can see the side yard set back for the existing garage is only two feet. And part of the reason is. Probably the fact that. The driveway is only eight feet wide. It's extremely difficult to get back there. So for the. And the. We are. Requesting. To build the new garage the two feet. Of the. Retain all that you can see there which is part of ten Murray Hill. The adjacent property on the left. That's the only violation for the garage. And. We will be. Meeting that requirement. Thank you. Let me ask a third questions from the board. Okay. Here in London. Yes, Madam Chair. Members of the board. We'll be. As. In. In. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Ma'am, a motion. Motion of approval one. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Nato. Yes. Caravans, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thanks. Next, we have case of bill rate. One, five, two, three, five, zero, seven. With the address of 35, 35, V, or one street. With the applicant and Nato, representative representative. And the next person is the void. I think that one's second, he raised hand. Roland, I have this cheaper. Roland is here as a participant as an attendee. Oh, can you please allow them to be as participants so that they can talk about the case? Yes, is that for this case? Yes. Okay, perfect. Roland, I just want to request some of your panels. Great. Thank you so much. Yes, the press accept. And that will allow you to him. I also tried to unmute him from my side. Okay, there we go. All right. So once you become a mutiny, go ahead. Clean on the same thing for you. Thank you. Roland, can you hear us? Yes, yes. Great. I just got in. I'm also with me is co-counsel of a 20 trial. He also would like to be admitted if possible. Yes, there's no problem. I'll take that. He's a Tony Trion. Is he on and under that name? In the meantime, if you want to get started, I can raise your hand if you need to be elevated to a panelist. Mr. Fosor, I don't see the name. Who is presenting this case? Is it Mr. Fam or is it someone else? Roland Fam is the one that's going to represent. Okay, so Mr. Fam, are you ready to present as we identify the other person? Roland, can you please go forward? Roland? Okay, I want Mr. Checkhead to panelist. I'm mute, Mr. Fam. It's not PD. Okay. Hi, everybody. I'm in, right? Yes, you are. Hi, Sherry. This is what I love. I'm just confirming that I'm in as a panelist. Am I? Am I not? Okay, who is presenting for this case? Can you please introduce me? Mr. Fam, are you prepared to present for this case or who is presenting? Mr. Fam, can you please go ahead and present? Okay, can you hear me? Can you hear me? Okay. Can you hear you, Mr. Tran, too? But I think you cannot hear us and we need you to proceed. All right. First of all, thank you for allowing us to participate in this hearing today. My name is Poch Tran. I'm one of the 30 record representing this property. I'm 35D. So, 75D is 75 old Martin Street. With me is my four council, Roland Phan, who is going to provide you with information regarding the progress of our process. Also with me is Susan Green, who is the manager of the project manager for the property. And Alita Alba, who is from the artifacts office, who is here today to ensure that all technical questions will be answered by her. So, without further ado, I'm going to allow Mr. Fam to proceed with information. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Are we here to seek a variance for the property at 35 old Martin? The last time we did the presentations with the neighborhood service, the neighborhood civic associations, of whom have not object to the plan, the proposed plans. Now we return in before the war for the final approval to go forward. Essentially, this property that we're looking to build on is a property that used to have a three-family structure on it. It was burned down. And now we would like to build also a three-family. It's a townhouse style, as you may have seen there. And we met with a couple of neighborhood civic associations to show them the proposed plan. And everyone was excited that this lot is to be improved because it was, it was a mess after the fire. The transports were accumulated there and the overgrowth was being undertaken over. But we are looking to build a three-family townhouse on the slide improving the local neighborhood, the value of the neighborhood. You see the design, the facial of the building. And we point this out to the neighborhoods that in designing this building, we incorporate the characteristics of the neighborhood. So this building actually looks, actually, it fits very well in the neighborhood. It does not stand out. It looks just like any other building that's existing on that street. And the neighbors were very excited. Although there was a few suggestions to consider. And we have considered those suggestions and incorporate those suggestions into our final plan, which is presented for you as much as possible. The those suggestions have been incorporated. And if you have any technical questions, we would be happy for to the architect. So I'm opening for questions. Questions from the board? Yes, a whole question. Yes, please. What did the BPD tell you or the Boston Transportation Department told you about the parking? Because what I can see here on the screen is that anyone has any questions? Also, many things to present. Now, as far as the parking spaces, as you can see there, as I said, there's used to be a three-family structure there. Now, there's also a three-family with a non-parking space for everyone. Does look any in the back of the building. Yes, thank you. My concern is not about how many parking spaces you have. My concern is about the project co-ordering the entire open space, green parking, green asphalt. Did you have any conversations with the BDA about reducing the parking spaces, the parking numbers? Does anyone have any questions or concerns regarding this project? I have an answer. Mr. Femme, are our ZBA member Mr. Valencia asked you about the parking? So I cannot hear you for some reason. Okay, well, either Suzanne or Mr. Tran, because we need to keep moving forward. There are questions about the number of parking spaces and the reduction of open space to accommodate that. Can the applicant address that? Yes, I can address that. Thank you. Thank you. We hope to have the parking there so that we don't have to use the parking from the street overfouling the neighborhood. So that was the reason why we tried to incorporate the parking so that it doesn't take over a lot of spaces from the street. So that a lot of the neighbors can use the parking from the street instead of the occupants that are going to live in the three family home taking spaces from the street. So that was the reason why we tried to incorporate those parking airing rooms, not too long, over by the street park. Thank you. Can one of you also answer a previously, you said there was a burnt house. It was a three family that experienced the fire. So how many parking spaces were there previously when it was a three family? The number of proposed parking space here on this plan was more than what it used to be. And in fact, we pointed out to the neighborhood meeting a few raised concerns because during the construction period or the corporations construction vehicle was some of them temporarily on the street. That was brought up at the here in the neighborhood. We pointed out that though they are temporarily just come and go. But after the construction, all these parking for the occupants would be a site as you can see there. And the number of parking spaces there are seven proposed and this number was more than what it used to be before the fire. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Let me open it up to public testimony. Good morning. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm James from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The applicant for 35 be on more in street. They're a funders meeting on December 7th. They also met with the River Street City Association where they received a follow-up recommendation. So the board provided several recommendations to the new and family and their team emphasizing the importance of integrating the new town home. Moniously with the existing streetscape, specifically the board suggested orienting the town homes at a 90 degree angle and aligning the front doors with the old more in street wall. It was also recommended that the architectural design be in keeping with the style of the surrounding homes with the maximum height of two and a half stories and the inclusion of dormers were appropriate. Additionally, the board expressed the community desire to preserve the maple tree. It's don't walk in on the lot line of 31 old more in street as well as insuring an adequate setback on the north side of the property. Furthermore, it was emphasized that maintaining a clean construction site and facilitating communication with neighboring residents throughout the product duration are essential for fostering positive community relations. And they reiterate that their willingness to support the project comes once the these considerations have been addressed. So we at this time the mayor's office would like to defer our judgment to the board on this matter. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please, one, two, one, two, three, cut it down, so that we definitely need the case. Thank you. Any other raise hands? Any other questions? Sorry? I'm sorry. Go ahead. You can get. We.. Hello. Hello, OK. Here we go. I'm not a huge please proceed. Yes, yes. I was at the, both the, where was treated in the long, most of the city. So you identify yourself in your, in your workplace for the record? Yes. Gary Towner took 17 Temple Street. Well, I'm a fan. I was at both hearings at the Abundance Meeting and this both civic association meeting hearings and one of the points that we made at these hearings is that the overwhelming majority of the houses on Old Walton Street was at the very old street, early 1800s. Most of the houses built by the Rotter-Bake-Attractor Factory. Those houses architecturally always had a majority had the Gable End face industry. If you look at the photo, this part of the application submittal to the board, you'll see that the existing house had a Gable End face industry. The narrow walls at the streets, the long, long went into the property. There were three parking spaces on the south side of the driveway and there was a two-carboration back. What that allowed was to have a decent backyard in the back of the building and allowed the north wall of the building to be far enough away from the Abundant property, which is 31 Old Walton Street. There is a field-stone wall, historic walls part of 31 Old Walton Street that needs to be preserved. The house is too close to the lot line at 31 Old Walton, it's not like three feet of way. Also, the tree that we're talking about is on the property of 31 Old Walton Street. It's not on the property of 35 Old Walton Street. And so we want to make sure that that's preserved and recognized. But architecturally, these are old houses that three windows wide. They have front porches. They have the front door facing the street. You know, what we were asking this is that they locate the house. Pretty much where the old house was, which was a very successful placement on a lot. And a lot of the majority of the windows to face south, and it allowed the parking to be on the south side. And it allowed for a decent, very nice back yard on the back of the house. Concern is without a back yard in all this paving. It's not going to be a very pleasant place to live. So those are our concerns, and appreciate the board considering that. Thank you. Any other questions? No, I have no questions. Any other questions from the board? I mean, I share Mr. Valencia's concern about the number of parking spaces that paving the lack of open space and permeable space. I think seven spaces for a three family home is excessive. So I guess I would ask the applicant to consider one space for unit. Well, I guess like, I would suggest that if someone wants to make a motion with such a proviso, you're more than welcome to do so. Are there other questions? Okay, we have a motion. Well, fine, so I'm happy to make a motion for approval with the proviso that the applicant worked with the BBDA in design review with attention to reduction of the Austrian parking spaces from seven to three, and increasing the permeable space on the lawn. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah, I'm so. Yes, okay, thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Not him. Yes. Chair votes yes, but motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Before we continue, we're in the draw almost a new time. We'll ask if there are any withdrawals of the frauds from the 1130 time timeframe. If there are no withdrawals in the 1130 time frame, then we have a question. No, sorry. Is this possible? Is there a Jackson, the architect for 146th-Hermes Street? I'd like to request a deferral for a family matter that the client wasn't able to make it today. Sorry, which case is it? 146th-Hermes Street. Okay. Second to last one, Mr. Stembridge. Please, I'm going to sit. Not the... Oh, I'm going to sit down. No, I'm going to sit down. Can you come down here, hang in the back? Can you please, you? You're not going to sit down. I'm not going to sit down here. This is what we used to do a lot of time ago. We can do it like that. You can have any mirror, but do work with our sound like we're moving forward. Can you please be a public space? Other is in Mr. Stembridge 146th. I'm going to sit down again. Okay. Okay, can you probably... Don't bother me. Okay, can you please sit down here? So that would be four case BLA 1341015 with the address of 146th-Hermes Street. Would you have read the first before? The client had a family emergency this morning and it can't make it today, so he had asked me to step on and ask for a deferral. Thank you. The next available date would be for June 4th. That would be great. Thank you. Okay. Should you defer? Again. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Bergeraza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Well, if there are no more requests for the draws of the trials from 1130, we will move back to one of the clock hearings to case BLA 156 4403. I have a question. I have a question. The case you should be on, it's case BLA 152 8988. The address of 3510 Washington Street. If the applicant can do it, they represent on the front of the page point. Yes. Good morning. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. And with me is the owner of the property Bill Gell. The project is right on Washington Street. There's an existing row of four properties. These are all individually individual properties. And so we are proposing to add two stories about the existing restaurant space at the grade level. And it would provide two apartments. That would be a two bedroom, two bath apartments. One is 1,310 square feet. And the other is 1,250 square feet. There is parking at the rear of the structure for this building. And we previously had received approval for the one two doors down at 3514, which is currently under construction. And you're seeing here the elevation from Washington Street. The next drawing shows the plot plan. If we could go to the next slide, please. Yep. And that shows the four properties are all connected together here. The next slide shows the existing plan, which is the restaurant plan. It has a full basement and a first story. And then the next drawings show the proposed four plans, which have the two apartments. So these are two flux units, one in the back and one in the front with an internal stairway. There is no roof deck proposed for this project. And then the next drawing shows the elevations of the proposal. As I mentioned, the one on the right is the one that's under construction now. And the one on the left is the one that we're presenting to you today. I'm also talking to the people on the left of that to hopefully pursue a similar addition. Eventually fill in the whole block there. So I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Well, yeah, it's all my questions about filling in those gaps. Any other questions from the board? Can you talk about the parking? Yes, the parking is located at the rear of the building. There is a driveway on the left-hand side, the north side of the property that takes you around behind the buildings. And that's where parking is for each of these properties. How much parking are you proposing? There are two spots in the back that are dedicated to this property each. Each property has two spots. Okay. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Here, Madam Chair, I've got a public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New England, with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of Mayor's Office is referred to the judgment of the board. I do the personnel changes. I don't have a lot of information regarding the community process proposal. How do we do know that you make a playing in blue council? I'm not recommended supporting this proposal. I don't know where many specific concerns at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a very nice hand here. Comments from the Mayor? You Chair, members of the board, this is Omaha, 35-14 Washington Street, just one door down from this project. And I'd like to go on record and support this project. I think we have great communication on behalf between all the members, and I think this is a great project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Will that be a motion? A motion to approve of BBDA Designer Bill. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Rons, yes. Yes. Mr. Prowzo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Nice. That was it. Next, we have KZB away. 155-2647 with the address of 640, Shaman Avenue. It's the applicant and for the representative's present, the big point of KZP. Yes, I am. My name is Sothek Kayafred. I am the architect, the project representing the owner and the inquiry. What we propose is changing the existing occupancy from a three family from three families and apartments and store two, three apartments and a barbershop. The work that proposed is my own. We are proposing only interior work, which is a wall and a door. And most importantly, five barbershares and a hair-wise thing. The owner worked in property back in 2021. At the time, it still is, it's occupied by three three member units on the upper floors. And of course, the lower level street level, which is commercially is currently vacant. They have remained vacant until the owner found a lease that he thought was either appropriate for the location or the use of the appropriate for the location also the size, in which he had found a lease, which is of course a barbershop that's going to be operated by a husband and wife combination. Again, no interior only interior changes and improvements are proposed. And most importantly also, no exterior changes are proposed for the exterior of the building. And by the way, there's only one violation. That is the barbershop is conditional use and a multi-family residential district. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The sound of the mayor's office deferred to the judge for this board. Some back information in the community process, ONS Host and the butter is being February 5th. Some of the media butter is expressing concerns that this business might add to existing issues in the community with drug dealing and gun violence. The app has explained that they would be potentially doing just appointment only for barbers, for haircuts. And that type of behavior wouldn't be tolerated and that they wouldn't have control over what happened outside in the broader community and didn't think that they'd be much of an impact on this. I don't believe you have any letters of support or opposition with that one deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Would that be a motion? Motion to kill the servals. Now a second. Mr. Stumberidge? Yes. Mr. Volencia? Yes. Mr. Clauza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Pionardo? Yes. Mr. Bolts, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-O-A-151-79-16 with the address of 906 East Forest Street, with the Alcanjolano and the board of representatives present with the explain to the board. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman. That was the board. My name is Francis Adams. I'm an attorney in Boston. I'm a business address of 350 West Broadway in South Austin. Also on the presentation of the Ben Lessl. That is the project architect and is also the owner of the property that is proposed on the father board today. Very briefly, that was the board, it's safe. An existing three unit condominium. It's a two-level condominium at the front and one level in the rear. Mr. LaSalle and his family are proposing a rare addition to the back of the property to make the property line. I consistent with the rest of the neighborhood. There were five violations that were seeking relief for. Roof structure, reject. On the lower roof, reconfiguration of the main roof, both violence, efficient rear, excessive FAAI and insufficient side-out separator. Just note that almost all of the violations are existing, non-conforming violations. New violations accepted to minimize increase in the FAAI to the rear of the property. The building footprint itself is not changing. As you can see from the plans and Ben will roll over. That's all the violations again for pre-existing, non-conforming use, except for the FAAI violation. At this point, I'll turn it over to Ben and Ben can review the plans for the board and then take testimony and report questions. Thank you. Thank you for your time. As Frant mentioned, this is a project for my family and I in hopes that we can stay within the South Boston community and not have to move out of the city. So it's a modest addition off the back that is going to be placed above and existing to one story condo that is on P-street. And it'll be two stories above that that will actually fill in an irregular shape of existing building that is on the existing block. So the goal is really just to fill in the area for added square footage for our unit and buy the extra bedroom for future children. Thank you. Questions from the board? Here none may I public testimony. Hello Madam Chair and members of the board, Lydia Flaskey, with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The meeting was hosted on December 18, 2023. During which time some of the letters were concerned over light blockage and the inclusion of a roof deck. In the proposed, the public proposed over leading to the potential noise that could occur. Some in attendance were pleased with the architecture, certain context with the neighborhood and the effort to align with the surrounding properties. And our office received one letter of support from the Nevada and a letter of support from the City of Point Neighborhood Association. At this time our office is unaware of any additional concerns with this application. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Laura Del Adano from the Consul's Office. This moment, consulfully led to a long record in opposition due to the presence of the roof deck in the project. Consul of Flint has a long standing policy of posting roof decks in residential areas of South Boston. Due to the negative impacts that have resulted for many years in South Boston. And was subsequently exacerbated in recent years in the form of parties, idle hours of denying enthrasional issues. With South Boston having become a much of a destination for young people on the weekend as a town-pastin, this issue's emanating for roof decks have negatively impacted the quality of life for neighbors, our seniors and persons with disabilities and young families. Thank you. Thank you. I have no decision on my seat. May I have a motion? I want to agree. Now a second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Lancia. Yes. Mr. Prasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pado. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you, boy members. What was that? Good motion. Next, we have ACP, 1-5-7-2696 for the Adidas of 804-E7 Street. This is an article 80, okay? The applicant and what the representative, please explain to the board. Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Stonebridge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair members. My name is George Moran, and I'm the Chair and the Business Address of 350 West Foddway in South Boston. I represent the Cabinet, where I'm now all seen its principles to a Malalean Chetapern. This is, as Mr. Stonebridge noted, an article 80, small project, which was originally approved by the DVDA in 2022, and was approved by this board in June of that year. Cabinetwoman LLC is purchasing the approved project from the original applicant in conjunction with that purchase. I filed a notice project change on behalf of my clients with the BBEA last November, which has been approved. Besides the transfer of ownership, the MPC proposes a reduction in the number approved dwellings from 21 to 60, along with reduction in the number of Austrian parking spaces, also from 21 to 68, a reduction in the budget's FAR from 1.68 to 1.43, and an increase in the number of interior bicycle parking spaces from 21 to 32, and an additional 10 outdoor visitor bicycle spaces. All of this occurs within the existing buildings footprint, with a very small addition, along with the rash side to allow for better configuration of the garage area and better new facilities and vehicles. And also remains the case that there is no change to the building height from existing conditions. The additional changes and improvements include the creation of direct bike access, connecting both East, Sixth Street and East Seven Street, and that bike room would be served from both sides of the building as well, along with exterior accessible random access for the dead streets connecting East, Sixth Street and East Seven Street. There's been a redesign of the buildings aside from more consistent with the neighborhoods architectural vernacular, as well as addition street trees on both East and Sixth, that East Seven Street sides of the building, and the introduction of additional front landscaping on East and Sixth Street sides of the building, where the buildings make arrages located. It will be 112 bedroom units ranging from 900 and 1888 square feet, and five three bedroom units ranging from 1105 to 1137 to 6 square feet. With respect to the zoning relief, variances were previously granted in 2022, before the five violations cited in the present zone, the refusal letter, it is requested to re-grant those variances for the same reason, so as they were originally granted, as well as a jeep car approval under Article 29. So the thought of the jeep car permit being sought, it is noted that the site is an appropriate one for the proposed use as it was on multi-family residential. The appropriate facilities will be maintained for the use of adequate, vehicular access where we've provided, and as the vehicular activity will be East, Sixth Street side of the site, which is not facing the able of our green belt roadway question, there will be no adverse effects on the green belt roadway. Significant landscaping treatment will ensure the natural aesthetic quality of green belt roadway will be maintained, and finally, on this previously mentioned, the design of the building is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. With that, Madam Chair, I'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Ms. Nancy. Any questions from the board? Can you speak to IDP units? Yes, Ms. Vignado. The number of units were reduced from 21 to 16, there was a commensurate reduction in the number of IDP units from 3 to 2, which is a 2-bedroom unit in one of which is a pre-bedroom relation. I'd like to ask you a lot. You can tell us the main reasons why you decided to reduce the project from 21 to 16, and why you were able to have some very critical to hear why you are producing the number of units. The previous project, as I said, I represent the hours that I'm... They quickly realized that it was maybe not going to be a very buildable project in terms of the project finances. Mr. Malally and Mr. Pernlick, that thought that the project would work better, which you were, but larger units, and they made the decision to do that based essentially upon the economics of trying to reuse and adapt this existing building. Which became more expensive, I think, that was a ritual invasion. Thank you. Any other questions from the Board? No, I have public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the Board, Lydia and Plasky, within their office of neighborhood services. On January 3rd, the BPDA, who's held a virtual public meeting and conducted community process for this proposal. On January 17th, the BPDA Board approved the proposal with the community support. Community concerns voiced prior, I'm revised since the proposal, include volume of units added to an already dense residential board or additional scarcity of on-street parking and an increase in traffic along residential streets surrounding the development. Size and scale of the project concerns over architectural context and lack of brain space. Community support for the proposal included a need for more residential units and self-hosted, positive transformation of an older building. Support for the architectural style and overall neighborhood beautification. This proposal would bring, we are unaware of any additional, any additional at this time. With that, we would like to refer to the judgment of the Board. Thank you. A little bit. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you. So, we ran on the corner on the President of the City Point Neighborhood Association. We listened to the Presidentate presentation from Stuart Millale as well as George Mayansate. And this was a prior nursing home. We are in support of this, answered all of our questions. The architectural style fits in with Dave O'Lear. And we are very happy that the units were reduced from 21 to 16. We did not support rise when they were the owners and developers of this project. Stuart came in, Stuart Millale gave us the changes and the changes are supported and as well as the beautification of the neighborhood and keeping within our housing stock style. Now, do we want to see large projects like this in City Point all the time? No, we don't, but this is a great reuse of this particular building and he is in fact staying within the footprint. Thank you. Good afternoon, my name is Jason Lombard. This is Laura Tlaidon of the Coastal Affairs Office. The Coastal Affairs Office is constantly going to go record and support due to the community process and the proponent incorporating the feedback of neighbors regarding the number and composition of the units. The design, parking and other quality of life issues. The previous iteration of the project was 21 units and 21 parking spaces. The latest version is now 16 units and 16 parking spaces, which is more aligned with the neighborhood feedback. The Coastal Affairs is rapidly requesting that the proponent continue to work closely with neighbors on the CBC group on any quality of life issues are arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you. I have no idea. Okay. Without may I have a motion? May I have a motion? I'm most into approval with BPD design ideas. Second, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Bervaza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Conato? Yes. Mr. Carvillice? Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have two programming cases. First, the case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. The case is BOA. So basically we recorded 60,000 points for global defense. 50% of hands are really used to job working with security software to provide for distribution systems. And then I have the FAO report to improve security software. Okay. Dear viewers, as you like. Please like, subscribe to our site as The other item that we're looking for in the forum is the excessive for air air and air ratio. We are off by 64 square feet on the garden level. We've gone through extensive new quick process and the Problem Square Association, I believe that we have the full support of both, but I'll let that speak for ourselves. The biggest concern on this project was the Magnolia Tree L-Wat and the current owners of this moment share the concerns of the neighbor and I think they were impressed that the level of effort had gone so far to design around the tree and to make sure that that tree was protected. I'm going to defer to Justin White, my wife, who's the item, to protect that design. So as Justin, it's a whole gut renovation of the full single family. We are proposing a once-forming mirror addition that is 60 on the garden level. We've done several plans in the south end. It works well to gain the extra square footage from the condo in a single car. Inside, it also works well because of the data on the tree level which we've been that is still right on top. There is a component that allows us to basically re-reportion the square footage. We are removing the rear orio and then add on-grid third square feet for that once for addition. There's also a PIT D-square footage. That's allowed on code additionally. So as Joe had stated, we're basically asking for it's right around 16 additional square feet for the building to make this work. Next slide. One other item that we're asking for is a dead of all that due to the floor plans designed by the E-cationers on the floor. Questions from the board? And then? Yes. I just kind of review in the BPDA comments regarding the location of the property that it's in the Seafrogg and FEMA Float Hazardous area. Are you referring to the G-Cyme? Maybe Jeff Hampton can speak on this but there was comments about potential, basically the idea that the BPDA is not really moving projects forward in regard to basement, livable space when a property is under Seafrogg and FEMA Float area. We were under the first time we were on a square that knew that we better make the property. So this is why I would like for Jeff to comment on it because some of it is kind of far away from sea level. But this is more in words in the city so I just want to get his assessment on it. Thank you Madam Chair. I remember Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hampton, BPDA. My apologies, Mr. Bedouin, for the rise on the FEMA notation that should have been taken out. Okay. Because that fire in it's not lower rocks, barrier or any of those areas that are prone to it. However, it is still in the Seafrogg and even though it is the Seafrogg regulations aren't applicable to a project this small, as you would know in earlier, we are taking a policy stand against having livable space in areas that are prone to flooding in our and the Seafrogg and even though those regulations don't apply, it's one right here on West Newton and as I'm sure you're aware of tipping my hand already. The next case on North margin has also the same reasoning for our rejections. Okay. That's great. Thank you. I figure that but I just wanted clarification because there's so many guardian levels in the South End. So thank you for that explanation. Now for the question. What's your opinion on the three families or one family? Is it currently occupied by three families? It is not currently not, but the entire building. The entire building is not occupied. Thank you. Man public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, pardon me with the Mayor's Office of the Memberhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judge from this board. Understand that the OMS held a broader meeting was a positive one and that the Alcon reach out to the pilot law of the Member's Association, which I don't believe had any concern for any opposition to this proposal. Without referring to the board at this time, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Seminole? Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminole, Boston Grandler Trust and we have both people. Thank you. You have no mistakes. Thank you. Okay. Was that a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion for approval for G-Cott and also approval with a proviso that the project undergoes South End Land War commission review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Bridge? Yes. Mr. Ronesio? Yes. Mr. Bitterbrasa? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Care votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case viewing. 1564403. With the address of 64 North Martin Street, with the applicant and or the representative present, we'll be explained through the board. Welcome. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board and Attorney Nick Sizzolo, McDermott, and I'm going to be familiar with the board. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. We have a board of directors and staff members. And you can see the building here in the center of the picture on the left. Next slide, please. None of the members. Just to let everybody know the parameters of the project. The existing building. It's a non-unit residential building. The management office on the ground level. There's a five story building. It has an existing basement garden level. building HVAC, mechanical, etc. It's a full-height basement. There is a rear garden and a light well that goes down through the entire section of the building which you'll see in a second. And the proposal on the bottom is to expand one of the units, the first floor unit, livable space into that existing garden level. Again, there will remain that full-height walk out to the rear garden and there is a light well that provides light and air down into that lower level unit, at that lower level space, excuse me. And this would require no expansion outside the existing building envelope. That downstairs area would provide about 900, little less than a thousand square feet of additional living area. And you'll see in a minute the plan is for this unit 1R for the appellant to move into this space, actually, which is growing family from the cell bend, which is now grown into the north end. So we actually will live in this unit and on-site where we'll manage the building to self-site. Next slide please, madam ambassador. This is just a show, a theatrical light air, and that it's actually a walk out. It's a basement in the manner that from the front, it's below great, but as you walk out to the rear, it's actually full walk out. You can see on the left inside both photos show the existing space as it is now. That's actually me as a model for scale on the bottom left. I'm about six feet one, six feet two on a good day. And you can see that there's a lot of height there, even now in that area. And I'm right inside are two photos of that rear area that's a walk out, which would be adjacent to this lower level space as well. Next slide please. This is just the existing, what's there now? Left side is the existing unit. You can see the unit is only about 570 square feet, so it's a rather small unit than the rear. And then that management office towards the front of the building, the lower half of the lower part of the slide is margin street. The top part is the rear of the building. And you can see on the right hand side that's the space that issue, the unfinished space, and you can see to the top that walk out to the garden area and then that light well, which provides light and air down there now. Next slide would just be proposed to show you what the plan is. Again, you can see that management office remains a little bit of a reconfiguration of that first floor level. And then the lower level is planned to be again attached to the main level that unit one are that's there now, about a thousand square feet. The downstairs rear would be a kitchen dining room living area with new windows and access to that rear garden. So the ability to walk in and out and use that private open space. And then towards the front, you can see a bedroom being added that does have light and air from that light well and full bath as well. And then a half bath will out there as well. Again, this would be connected to that first floor by an internal step. Next slide, please. This is just the building section just to evidence quickly that you can see that although the first half of the towards margin street is technically basement as you go further back due to the great change and just due to the building, it actually walks right out to that patio garden. And out proposed to the C fraud and the comments from the BPDA which I'm happy to address. You can see in that patio garden level there is already a recharge system in there. We actually were approved for G-Cod back in 2023, new to the overall renovation and rehabilitation of the building for all the other floors. We actually went through G-Cod and got approval for all the groundwater conservation, the pipes, the recharge and all of that. They'll be WSC and Christian, the Boston groundwater trust. Next slide is just our zoning refusal letter which is just showing all we need is floor area ratio because we're recapturing that existing space in the basement. We do not, and we're not triggered for C fraud. We don't ride. We don't trigger that under their click abilities. Guidelines for C fraud so we were just cited for FAA. And then the final slide which I'm sure the mayor's office will speak to. I'm not an ambassador. He could scroll down. It's just our outreach that we did meet with the applicable neighborhood groups without support in non-opposition. I'm happy to stop here and take questions and have an answer. If you're already in the C fraud if you'd like as well, I know you're better for us. I ask you to listen. So I'll pause here and wait my turn. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No question because Attorney Zizola said that the project did not trigger any C fraud restrictions. It is on the overlay district but it didn't trigger it. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Yes Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process and a butters meeting was held on February 15th. Biographers are very positive. Meaning some of butters have raised a concern about construction. I believe it might be related to noise. They went on. They often went on to meet with new rub which they received a letter of non-objection and onto new Nick which they received a letter of support. We also have 28 letters of support. I'm told those who have been shared with the board have that information referred to the board at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Sebastian Pire from Concert, the letter's office. The council will not be going to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. No, we're just cans. With that we have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion. I think this project is commendable to preserve the commercial space a little bit on the first floor with that I'd like to put forward a motion approval. It's the second. Second. Mr. Snubbridge. Yeah. It's Luanzio. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair Wolves. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case POA 156-3079 with the address of 135 thousand street. If the applicant and those are representative of the board, we'll be in your place. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Snubbridge. Good afternoon again. Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins. With the business address of 245 Sonner Street, these spots on behalf of the petitioner with me is Doug Steffanoff, Stepon of Architects. We just got a slight two. Madam Chair, this is an existing two-family dwelling look to the Eagle Hills section of these spots. It's a corner lock condition, the corner of Tottenham Falcons Street. Our proposal will involve changing the occupancy from a two-family dwelling to a three-family dwelling, which includes a one-story vertical addition. If you jump out of the next slide please. One more. Perfect. Just real quickly by way of summary and my stomach appropriate, but we have the new zoning article 40s Boston. This will be located in the EBR to the district. As you can see, it's comparison changes a number of these zoning regulations that were applicable in the Iberge and Mark 53 would trigger relief for a number of items. As you can see, we pretty much comply if not fully with all of the requirements for EBR-3. I would point out that the footprint of our building does not change. It currently occupies 58% of the lot area. Because this is a corner lock condition, EBR-3 allows for up to 75% coverage. So we actually have a bit of room if we wanted to expand the building. The primary will area for corner lock condition is 15%. We have that 288 square feet towards the rear of the building, which should not be an issue. With respect to our main items, use would be permitted as a three family and then all the other certain dimensional controls that existed previously at our L53 are either eliminated or or in compliance as a pre-existing non-conforming structure. Next slide please. Just a quick overview of the surrounding context. The site is a bit slow because you can run Pondham Street and go down to slide 8. I probably showed some good example of what we're looking at. Slide 8 please. Perfect. As you can see here, the existing condition of the building, as I said, Pondham Street does slow up towards Eagle Hill. We do have an exposed condition for the existing foundation, which doesn't get picked up on the other side of the street because the slope goes the other way. Our proposal would not seek to add in a liberal space at that lower level. There are no flood or sea front entry at this location. We would continue to use that for utility and forest storage. Next slide please. It's a different view. Next slide. So our comparison is here showing the proposed addition. We do propose a roof deck as well that is accessed by a hatch. While this does not necessarily seem like it aligns with existing heights along that section of Falcon Street, I would point out that both current zoning, or I should say prior zoning and now current zoning, both allowed this level of height, nearly different things being is we were allowed to tune up storage 35 feet and per prior zoning. This is allowing a full third story with 35 feet height limit under du zoning. So this is compliant, although not necessarily representative of some of the buildings, merely to its right. I would guess that the amendments to I-503 contemplated this height of change to buildings including critical additions to a lot of additional housing units. I believe that is one of the reasons why the EPA is recommending approval for this project because of its alignment with new zoning. Next slide please. Just our left side view. You can see me proposing two rear balconies off the back of the building. There are no stairwells accessing them. We do obviously are required to upgrade the life scene to the building based on the change block that see mine can see the proposed roof deck as well. Next slide. Just our right side which is pretty much set up a lot on the rear view of our building. I will point out that the parking that was proposed originally for this site was to have three parking spaces. We did here to a community process to reduce the number of parking spaces down to two. As I mentioned in prior presentations, new zoning does not require any parking for up to three units in the expost and neighborhood and therefore even though we are proposing two parking spaces, we would be compliance with parking regulations. Also by reducing it down to two parking spaces, we're able to better address the permeability of the site and to ensure that we're meeting that 15%. Even though we're not necessarily required to. Next slide please. We can drop out of floorclads like we did was slide 17. Here we go. So as you can see on the left side that's at basement level that is exposed we are proposing to maintain that as I said for storage and utilities. The first level, second level, third level are all shown and in the roof deck that's exclusive to unit three only. And with that I think I can stop and address any questions or comments on the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing not, we have public testimony. Hello Madam Chair, members of the board. My Louis Adams of the Mayor's Office of New Parent Services. OLS hosted an abuters meeting for this project on January 4, 2024. Through the butter is your president on the call. A butter should concern about the parking as they didn't think it would be able to fit out the car is the plan originally proposed. The proponent did meet with the ETHO Health Civic Association and leader voted to oppose the project. The vote was seven in support and twelve in opposition. At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Production members for the board. Sebastian Park on concert for let us office based on each complaint released by a cent. Plenty's boss sent the concert will have to go support this project. Thank you. Any other elected official offices? No. Okay I'll go to Haley and then caller eight six two. Hi, good afternoon board members. I'm an in-saving Richard's resident of 137 Falcon Street. I would like to I am in opposition of this bill as it currently sits due to the overshodowing caused by the proposed buildings height. It will cause a severe impact to the living conditions at 137 Falcon Street by reducing somebody exposure which is vital for both physical and mental health. The other residents of 137 Falcon who I know are on this call as well are in the same camp. That said overall compliance with the zoning laws is not merely just a bureaucratic formality but a crucial mechanism to ensure that all developments contribute positively to the fabric of the community that they join and I strongly feel that this building revision is not the service of that. Thank you. Brandon? Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. I'm chair and the board members of the board. My name is Brandon Gearshick. I was at the 137 Falcon Street directly across from this property as well. Some other Haley here today to express my strong opposition to the proposed your development plan as Haley had noted this will significantly impact the natural light that enters our home which obviously has health and psychological impacts but was also contributing factor in decision to purchase our home here and make the investment that we have. Additionally I'm concerned about the setting of President, a precedent excuse me and improving such as only exception for future development projects in our area. So I would urge the board carefully to consider these diverse effects. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. A color? I agree. I'm a part of not listening to the project represent the other reference of the company coming from the street here. This is a new build for us. We have to find the active and the others meeting. My unit in particular is on the top floor. Because of this, I have a budget plate and only windows in my unit are rest of the issues that they're difficult. We're blocking light on our property. I just often don't think that the architecture is going to be there. Thank you. Thank you. May I respond? Are there any other reasons? No Madam Chair. Yes, service lines. Thank you Madam Chair. So come a quick comment. So right here the concerns that will be raised regarding the light and shadow and impact this way out. I would reiterate as the board members, the high of this building is compliant with the new zoning for hiding spots. So while we were cited for height under the prior version RR-53 is this compliant. An addition of proposed roof deck is also compliant with the planning spots and recommendations for roof decks. I respect the setting of precedent. I'm afraid that we're not the ones that will be set in the precedent here as the new zoning RR-53 has already established that. So three family and three story building in this neighborhood is the norm at this point. So there is not any concern or precedent being set because this would be the asset right client for the area. Last day, we'll make up that with respect to the, there was also a comment about, sorry. The comment about the height of the building with the exposed foundation, Turses Board is aware the definition of first story unarticle two is pretty clear is that portion of the building, which is 65% or more of upgrades. The first story of this building is actually the first main story and that's because of the fact that it isn't quite a lot and is bounded by sidewalks on both the left side of the building front. And therefore, although it may present as a fourth story building, technically under the zoning definition, does it restory building and the highest measure from the average rate, which again would be a compliant condition under both prior zoning as well as current zoning. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. I'm welcome to approve of the PDD design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barbaza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sonato. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Let's take a 15 minute. Thank you. Thank you. Recording stuff.