 time you all are. Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for October 24, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to the hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Ford members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panellists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public or most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive requests to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. And then, just of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening. Mr. Beraza. Good evening. Ms. Beraza. Good evening Madam Chair. Present. Good evening. floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We begin with the hearing schedule 5 PM. First, we have case B-O-A 161-4565 with the address of 36 Robkin Road. It's the applicant and or the representative of our president. Would they please explain the case to the board? Good evening, board. I'm Michelle Scalow owner of 36 Robkin Road here with Carlos Ferreira, our contractor. We are just here to ask for a variance. We are looking to do a dormer on our home. Just to have two bedrooms in a bathroom. We're long term, Robindell residents and have four children and just need some more space. So we had already applied for a permit a couple years ago and had no follow back from our or no feedback from any neighbors. Everyone is fully on board. So we are hoping you will too. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions at all. It's pretty straightforward. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Jarrameet Bemberi. I am the Comparas of the community engaged and specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abuters meeting held on July 10th with newer butters and attendance enough civic meeting with long fellow area neighborhood association with no opposition. I know that as a position of support of our emergency by our office, thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the court for their decision. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? I don't chair like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Brasa. Yes, I'm Madam Chair. Yes. I just if you could just ask if there was anybody who wanted to comment on the project from the public? Sure. Was there any other any other anybody else wish to comment on this project? Besides ONS? I see no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Is that satisfactory? Yes, thank you. And do I need to redo my motions? Yes, please. Okay, may I have a motion? Sure. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. Mr. Bethe-Brasa. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 161-3879 with the address of 43-45 Wood Avenue. Is the applicant and or the representative of the present? Will they please explain? Madam Chair, I would say the floor. I may be the subject's committee. I'm Attorney Mark C. Sweeney, 261 Main Street, Charleston. Members of the board, I'd ask if we made a further matter. My client contacted me on Monday. He didn't realize he's in what, but did realize he was in London. His spouse had made a plan and he didn't realize he would be older than he had planned to ask the meeting his staff. A little shaky. It's a little bit difficult to hear you. Sorry. I'm seeking you to for all because I was contacted on Monday by the owner. He's in London, actually on his way back as I speak. And yet trouble getting me the materials to discuss with the board. It will have just a deferral in next month. All members, best of the board. We would appreciate it. Sure. May I have some dates? So we would defer to the next subcommittee hearing. So it would be November 7th. Does that work for the applicant? I have my granddaughter coming up from DC. I'm going to go to the next meeting after that. I apologize. That would be December 5th. That will have from my perspective that's fine. Okay. Thank you. Is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to confer a motion of deferral for December 5th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Bette-Brazza? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Next, we have case of B.O.A. 161-1785 with the address of 105 vote Navinou. If the applicant and or their representative or president, will they please explain to the board? Good evening, everyone. Can everyone hear me clearly? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. Thank you. Sorry. Okay. So my name is Ali and I'm here to change the provisional for an executive restaurant located in 105, Bowdoin Avenue. Just an executive restaurant. I'm just taking a word, just taking the provisional for take out. So if having someone any question or something, can ask me. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, is there public testimony? Oh, and as are you speaking on this? Yes, my apologies. Madam Chair, members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bember. I am the mid-durchester committee to engage in specialists for the Office of Nibbler Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abuters meeting on June 27th with no abuters and attendants. They then went on to the Civic United Neighborhood Association and two of the civics as well with no opposition. Thank you for your time and the best Office of Nibbler Services. We're looking to defer to the board for the judgment at this time. Thank you. Any other public comment? I see no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betapurazo. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And next we have case B-O-A 162-1090 with the address of 22 parents street. If the applicant and or their representative of present, will they please explain the case to the board? Hi, my name is Will Mead. I'm an owner of 22 parents street. I had had a hearing before that was approved for two units in the carriage house and back. The carriage house, the exterior would remain the same other than relocating doors and windows and adding an exterior set of stairs. And I had I didn't realize I was supposed to file a separate appeal for the fact that it is two buildings on one lot. So they they filed an appeal for that and sent me back. But I didn't realize I was presenting the whole project over again. They said I just had to come back and see you guys because they couldn't move it forward because I had only filed the one appeal. Does that make sense? So what are you presenting right now? I'm sorry. It's a carriage house and it's two units being put into the carriage house so it changes the zoning. Okay, and we'll first let me ask are there questions from the board? No, I mean we're not able to see the project as a full but it seems like my understanding is that it has already been presented and maybe potentially there were some violations that were missed. Did you receive a memory caroline can help? Did you receive approval when you presented in front of the ZBA? I did. Okay, do you know what you were approved for? Maybe or caroline with the secretary or yeah, caroline can help us with what they were approved for and whether they're in front of us to add additional violation. I would imagine that the violation is a two and more dwelling on the same lot potentially. Yeah, so it's the same lot and it's just the two dwellings. So in the first 22 are they were cited for rear yard side yard front yard usable open space, lot frontage, lot area, off street parking and two or more dwellings on the same lot and that was all approved with zero provisos. So the issue was that the applicant when they were appealing the decision, they didn't appeal both 22 are and 22. In 22. So this one's for 22. Correct. Okay, that makes complete sense. Okay, great. So I don't have any further questions. That's very clear. And sir, can you just clarify when did you when were you approved from this board? When when were you last? Okay, last present? April 26. And I did I just didn't I'm new to the process. So I just didn't understand because there's no nothing happening with the main house. I didn't realize that I was supposed to file an appeal. So I missed that. And then when I was getting ready to go on to the next part. So the process, they said, you have to go back and see you guys and file for the main house, which I missed because there was no I was didn't realize I had to do it, even though there's no changes happening to the main house. And I don't know if onus can answer this or you can. So can you just remind us what community process took place the previous time as we it does appear we did get a letter from district counselor seeking more like more community process or community process? I did. I had a butters meetings. I had neighborhood presentation and I also got a list of approval from the butters that was sent in for the original hearing. Thank you. With that, can I open it to public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The sound of the mayor's office like it deferred to the judgment this board. Some back information in the community process. Onus, it conducts the butters meeting on November 6. Afterwards, the applicant went on to meet with the Roxbury path forward. Neighborhood Association, I believe they met a couple of times. The civic ultimately issued a partial letter of support that came in on February 23. They were pleased with the preservation of the carriage house. So I guess there had been a loss of some other similar carriage houses and other parts of the neighborhood. They did have some concerns expressed though regarding parking the number of spaces that can be utilized in the in the driveway. Without information, we'll defer to the board of this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I have three raised hands, Madam Chair. Okay. Please proceed. I'm going to unmute you to speak. Hello. I am here actually as in a butter. I live at 85 Moreland Street. But and I'm also representing the neighborhood Association Roxbury path forward that was referred to. And just as the owner stated, there just was a lot of confusion with this process. Even at the hearing in February, he says I've got plenty of parking and the way that these hearings work with the proponent gets to talk at length. That was simply not true. And he did have a meeting, but that plan, the first page of the plan that you show that removes parking from the street. He just didn't discuss that. And so we would really like to have a deferral of this hearing so that the abutters can actually have a meeting. And he could explain this in a more organized way. And you heard him tonight. He said, I didn't know. So it would just really be a benefit to this neighborhood. If you could allow the abutters to be fully informed about what is being requested. Thank you. District, so do you have the ability to set on music? Thank you so much. I just want to echo some of the concerns of the community. I will read on behalf of Council Anderson and say she writes to you board in regard to the proposed zoning variances sought by the developers of this parcel. Again, there was some confusion around the address. 22 or 22 are parents, street and Roxbury. She kindly asks that this matter be deferred to allow for more time in the community review process because multiple residents have reached out with an interest in getting more information on the project for it's able to move forward with a decision by your body. Community input is vital to ensure that residents with a longer history of community can provide advice and feedback to ensure that this property meets the moment. With some extra time, the community will have the opportunity to provide substantive feedback. And the Council hopes that you will defer this matter to allow for a collaborative community process. Thank you so much. Thank you. That was Angie of the District 7 Office. Thank you. Thank you. Were there any other raised hands? Yes, we have two more raised hands. Okay. I get so that so you can speak. Oh, is it my turn? Yes, it's your turn. Okay, hi. My name is Levette Colony. I'm the president of the Montpellagin Force and Vine Neighborhood Association and we are but Roxbury Pass forward and part of our mission is to also be in collaboration with all the neighborhoods that surround us. So I think that this the proponent is very confused and he needs to make sure that he goes to the people that actually matter like the upbutters and make sure that they are informed. You can't make a decision without having information. So for them not to have the plans ahead of time so they can preview them and go over them is doing a disservice to the process. Thank you. Thank you. I'm meeting to speak. Hi, my name is Cheryl Salantonson. I live on 12th parent street. I'm going to butter. I thought I had a I know I had a clear understanding of what was going on at 22 and 22 are. I support it 100% if you could even see the setup. There's plenty of parking. I'm very confused on why this is being postponed again and I hope it won't be postponed for too long. If if the CBA determines that it needs to be postponed. Thank you. They've been a wonderful neighbor and you know I thought I used to work at Urban Edge so I'm a little familiar with with housing and I thought everything was pretty clear but thank you for giving me the time to speak. Thank you. No other questions from the board. I have a question. Is this cottage unit for the homeowner? Is it for to be rented? I was just wondering. Is to be rented? Okay. So you lived in the area for a while? I still live in the area. I've been here 10 years. Okay, great. I have I have no further questions. I'm not the area. I live in the house. The main house. Okay. And would you like to respond to the feedback that was provided? I would. I would. I was told by my liaison. I did not even need to do a meeting for Lorraine. Because I was I don't land in her area. She isn't a butter and I wanted to I didn't want to you know I didn't want to ruffle any feathers and I didn't want to be sneak anything by the people in my community. So I did propose to her but I had already done two other neighborhood meetings that I was told to do. I did project right and the 7.1 or it's like kind of like a sub neighborhood group within that that's on parent street and they they were in full support. So I'd yeah anyway. Okay. Thank you. Is anyone from Matt chair? Is anyone from ONS here? Well Connor, you've been spoke on this. What's your question if he's still on? Basically I'm just curious as to what the community process was. Yeah. So as I testified before we had in a butters meeting that occurred in November 6th. They then went on to meet with like it sounds like two civic associations. We had on file a letter of partial support like I mentioned from Roxbury Path forward. I think from I did not facilitate the process but I think concerns that occurred from neighbors was what would the parking situation be like? I'm not sure during this process there was BTED review or a Boston Fire Department review of the particular driveway in the curb cut itself. I believe that's what the majority of the concern is focused on. But I understand that meeting with those civics there were several times that the proponent checked in with the civic association and provided further information upon request. So as you mentioned previously they had been to the zoning board of appeals and then it sounds like there was a variance that was missed and that's why we're back here right now. Thank you. Certainly. Madam Chair I have a camera raised by Black Got So It's Again. Hi thank you. I just want to have some provides and clarity. If the proponent has been here for 10 years you should know that there's a difference between neighborhood association that doesn't get paid may do it voluntarily or organization that gets paid to do their work and then a watch group which is a group of people on a street maybe two individuals that don't send out any kind of information to the rest of the neighborhood. So there has to be clarity around which one of those entities actually robustly engage people to take part in the community process. So if he's going to people who like me the one group I know in particular is a street group like they're just a group of people who watch a block and one of the individuals is really elderly and doesn't use any kind of like media communication like email and so forth and then the other group is a person who leads the group and is paid to lead that organization. Oh thank thank you ma'am. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is there a motion? Yeah I mean I would like to put a motion of deferral to the next board the two-stay full board and that would give the applicant the time to do their another kind of round of due diligence in regards to setting up a neighborhood meeting flyer around you know the butter is the adjacent neighbors and just do just an additional community meeting to the next hearing is next Tuesday so I'm guessing that is not the proposal. The the the the the next one not next Tuesday but then the next one and I think it's important if the applicant can get a hold of someone at the mayor's office of housing to to potentially also communicate to the neighbor the neighbors about our city's move you know plan of adopting ADUs in the city as an avenue to provide additional housing. You know it's just a suggestion that's that's what I would like to because I think the project has already been approved we know that but I think the full board needs to know that um there's an additional relief that is needed and we should take advantage of informing the public what city's goals are for increasing housing stock. Is there a second? Second sorry ten are up so just to clarify we would need to defer if it's not for this coming hearing on Tuesday it would be for the next step committee which would be November 7th. I'm asking for the subcommittee I'm asking for the full board so that the full board can rehearse. Right right and then but from there they also have noticed today as we're speaking that they have it for the subcommittee as well as the full board hearing. Did they have what? I'm sorry what are you saying? Um so because it's being heard out of subcommittee so I mean my motion is to put is to put on a full board. For full board hearing. Correct and I'm just yeah for the dates. Right so next one is the next one because the next one is too soon so when is the next one after that? November 26 so November 26 is what I'm deferring to. Okay and did I hear a second? Yes you did. Okay Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bettebraza. Yes. The chair votes yes the motion carries. I would encourage the applicant to revisit his hearing as well in April because you know again if you had letters of support and opposition you should make note of them and come back better prepared. Thank you. All right I believe thank you. Thank you. That's the last hearing. Is that right? All right so with that I'll see you at the next full board. Thank you. Thank you.