 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you be elected or selected RFP recipient. There's currently an existing single family structure on site, which is kind of in the footprint of the left building. And then to the rear, there is a existing, but essentially a dilapidated garage structure. So the proposal is to take the existing single family home renovated into a two-family dwelling. That's what you see in the front left of the slide down in front of you. And then to erect a new structure to the rear, which would also then have two units. So the proposal is to take a existing larger parcel of a single family home to obtain and to renovate into two units in the existing structure and then add it to the rear. So we have a ALT permit, which is the subject of a 104-watt fishery, which is the alteration of the preexisting structure. And then there is a second effectively a permit, an ERT interaction permit, or the proposal to the rear. So we effectively have two sister projects. One ALT number, one ERT number, but we're seeing three of them as two sister projects in the back way on a single piece of land. So the proposal is for four off-street parking spaces with four total units. And I guess you want me to approach 104 Walters Street and its associated refusals. All right. OK. We have a open space insufficiency and aggregate. We have a off-street parking and loading requirement, just because of orientation and maneuverability. In Rowsendale, we have a requirement for two parking spaces per dwelling unit, which would be eight Niagara, we are proposing four. This is proposed to be a 100% affordable housing project or seen and constructed by Habtapra Humanity. So there are slightly reduced affordable housing parking requirements per dwelling unit and the opportunity to the co-based by the requisite number. We have a excessive number of stories in the existing 104 parcel with 104 building with three total stories. And then we have effectively side-yard insufficiency for what would be preexisting non-conformities. And that is largely for one of four Walters that pre-existing structure. The structure to the rear that proposed new construction again, we have an aggregate open space insufficiency off-street parking. Again, we have four proposed spaces for four proposed units. And then we have a side-yard insufficiency to our left. We also have a rear yard insufficiency. I'll just note that we have a preexisting garage to be raised, a new structure to be erected, and proposing to make those existing setbacks less egregious by giving more deference and more space to both left side and also to the rear. Thank you. Anything else you'd like to share before we open up for questions? No, I would just say that we will have testimony from ONS, but there has been a significant community engagement in here, and we have a lot of wide-sitting support to be brought to collaborative efforts of the many local neighborhood groups. So we are, I think, well positioned with a lot of good neighborhood support. Thank you. Without any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. Yes. If we're each building the two families or is it one and one is one question. And secondly, the size of the units in terms of square units. So yes, so the proposal is to have two buildings with two units each for units in aggregate, which will be a, and for condominium and home ownership, again, all affordable housing. If you proceed to inside of the slide deck, if you go up, there is a nice breakdown of the perspective units and their blend of beds and baths and square footage. So in the existing structure, we'll have two, both two beds, one being a one bath, the other one being a one and a half bath. The first unit at two bed, one bath is proposed to be 936 square feet. The other unit being two beds, one and a half bath, and about 1,600 square feet. And then the new structure proposed to have a three bed, one and a half bath, and about 1,027 square feet. And then the fourth unit, the second unit, the rear structure being two bed, one bath, 840 square feet. Thank you. Why such a large 1,600 square feet front two bed room? Based upon orientation and configuration of the unit, it's logistically makes no sense to tie in the second and third floor in the preexisting structure, which then binds itself to a much larger unit. And in fact, it is located on both the second and third floor. The first unit is effectively a larger footprint, but first floor only. Can you speak to landscaping? Yes. So there is a perspective landscaping plan in place. We do have direct interfacing with the butter to our left, our most impacted. There's been a lot of requests for applicable screening and or buffering. This also what's conservation land to the right and to the rear. So the city is looking to develop that to provide access to this rear conservation land. So between city's efforts, habitat's efforts, and specifically trying to work and engage with our impacted about our tour left, there's been a lot of emphasis in providing appropriate landscaping and screening and buffering. So there is a pretty well-thought out current proposed landscaping plan in place. Is that what that walkway is leading to, this conservation land? Correct. Well, we do have a certain drive, again, given the depth of the drive and the proposed rear structure, we add a lot of interfacing with the fire department. So we have a wide and dry on our parcel, but to your point, yes, to the immediate right is supposed to be a walkway that will be developed by the city in combination with other state entities for access to the rear conservation land. Thank you. The question is from the board. Sorry, I might have missed this, but have you guys already gone in front of conservation? I'm not certain of that question, I apologize. I believe so, in light of the fact that the city has come to control this parcel. And that on this side, I'm going to indicate the entity that controls that parcel, but I will work to confirm for you. And Jerry also on the line, too, who is a project manager. He also made the up to buy on that, too. Jerry, I'm going to answer that question. Any other questions from the board? Okay, we'll give you a chance to figure that out. Well, we go to public testimony. Do we have any comments from BTD on this driveway in the sidewalk? Yes, between I'm not certain on BTD, but as far as the fire department is concerned, yes, there's a lot of oversight in relation to the DEX and to the with based upon access and need for fire trucks and related personnel, and equipment to be able to access through the rear structure in the event of emergency. Mr. Domingo, are you on? I saw him earlier. Nope, Mr. Dembridge, does he have any comments? Not that I can see. I'll imagine. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, I do see Bob with the raised hand. Do you want to speak, Mr. Domingo? Okay, we're going to keep going until, let's have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation, there's been a significant community engagement period over the past few years. The Rosendale Wetlands Task Force and Longfellow Area and the neighborhood association have been heavily involved, but not limited. There's another group involved as well. That have been supported with this project because of the aspects of affordable home ownership, as well as the conservation piece to the proposal as well. Kind of combine a lot of main goals that residents have for that particular property. Our office conducted in a butters being on April 12th, where numerous butters were in attendance who expressed support for the proposal, citing the work that the applicant, Haptap, humidity has done with engaging community members, as well as the opportunity of drawing families to this area. There was one resident who was a butter who expressed some concerns regarding the setbacks. I understand that the applicant had continued to work with that family to address some of those concerns regarding screening and buffering. And then we received a letter from the Longfellow Area Neighbor Association this morning, which was forwarded to the board, aligning their reasons for supporting the proposal. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan, free us here from Council of Recart over the Royals office. If you'd like to go on record, it's supportive of us. Thank you. Thank you. The board of chair, members of the board of Paul Solen, and the City Council, Lodge, Michael Plierty. This is going through a robust communal process. Specifically, the land has been very involved. The proposal itself, having been now due to affordable housing, the Council would like to go on record and price from support. That's housing. Go ahead. Terry, are you looking to get this money here? Yes. Hi. My name is Terry Sashko. I'm a housing development officer with the mayor's office housing. And I just want to go on market and support O's this project. Thanks. Kathy? Okay. I'm not... Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry.ジャ tens of dollars is $37,000 square feet plus was the largest privately owned parcel in the R酸vale Mountain. So a part of the city and that's where the walk is. And the conservation commission and part of our request for being able to have two structures with four years affordable housing. land to be maximized for the Rosadale Buttons urban wild area, which is a 10 plus anchor designated Conservation area. So we strongly urge you to approve all variances and thank you very much for your hopp and see Good morning. My name is Inji Kaya. I'm an immediate the butter to 104 Walter and 108 Walter We live at 100 Walter. We are excited about the potential that this project holds We do want to make it very clear that we are as immediate a butters in a position that will be impacted most strongly The setbacks are something that we are working with the habitat and There are colleagues on right now right now. We are still working on a resolution on a another way that setbacks will be Emicable to both sides, but as it stands now, it is a very large unit that is really pushing on Reborders between the two units. We also have some question marks that we've raised ahead of this call To don't have that folks about the increased traffic and the increased risk in traffic that opposes to Walter Street and then anybody who drives there not just for today and tomorrow, but for 50 50 60 80 100 years from now Thank you comes a higher than regular It basically increases the traffic flow in an area where there is Basically very limited visibility My name is to the previous council of its admissions office. We're like to go in and support this project Okay Okay, any other raise hands. I think we get the idea Okay, without any other questions from the board May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with VPDC VPDD8 design review with special attention to the site plan landscaping and they continue a sidewalk across the driveway Man, second, so I can Mr. Sturmridge Mr. Shepard yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, Miss. Panna. Oh, yes, Mr. Collins. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes Chair also votes. Yes motion carries good luck Thank you very much Thank you very much Next we have case B O A 143 3904 with the address being 30 all into the street is the applicant and or their representative Yes, there's a raise hand here. I'm gonna make you a palace can you accept it once it pops up in a new yourself Give us your name and address and tell us what you're looking to do. We'll see you in you day Good morning. Can everybody hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. Good morning, madam chair. Good morning members of the board My name is Lewis passball and I'm looking for a variance for My property over a 30 Arlington street to make the basement unit an actual unit It's gonna be conformed with three bedrooms two paths and it's gonna be very similar to the other units on the first second on third floor There's a couple of you Zoning issues, which is one of them is the non-conforming use the users of forbidding lot frontage floor area of that ratio Building high unusable open space and front yard and sufficient Nothing is gonna change as far as the structure of the building So the only change will be in the inside of the basement So Mr. Cressbroke can you walk us through what is the basement currently used for what is the ceiling high egress and Windows or natural light situation Yes, so the because of the grade of the of the street from Arlington to Davidson street the basement unit Still has the same size windows as the other units Which I believe they're 36 by 54 as far as egress if you can look on the plans for the stairs yep right over there So the status there from the right side that go into the other unit It's gonna have access to that basement unit There is a sprinkler room on the basement that services the whole house and then there's an egress at the rear of the building Which is where the decks are so there'll be an entrance and an egress form for that unit the as far as big ceiling height it will be the same ceiling height as the other unit will be a three a fee three interest The questions from the board Uh, yes, quickly. You just tell us a little bit more about this request What's the purpose of going from a three family to a four families is your house just a little bit more information about the nature of Why this is required thank you. Yeah, so this this is my house, um, and I currently own it I Currently moved out of that house, but I was looking for the potential to Build another unit in the basement to just maximize the use of the building Just given the grade of the street level there's other properties in the near immediate area that are four families as well And as far as the parking I know parking is the biggest you're in the city now. There's plenty of parking space to accommodate for this unit Many of parking on your property or are you a friendly street parking? No my property So there's about 13 parking spaces on the property on the rear of the property. Okay Other questions from the board Why so much parking 13 spaces for what's this a this a three family? well Yes, but I also own the house that is right next to it which is 32 orange and so the 13 parking space is served for the two year after the two buildings Then at these all rentals are kind of mediums. What's the their rentals as of right now Is there any will there be any storage of the units don't look like they have any Um any extra storage space where we're working folks keep Thanks Well No, they do not have access to the basement as of right now They do have like the closet in the Immediate like living room area with a lot of the tent store whatever they have but as far as storage in the basement. There's none as a right now And I hasn't been in the issue with the tenants over the years Are you here from I see Bob DeBica has his hand up Yes, I I want to apologize Madam Cheyah had a problem I'm moving my I'm using myself the last case but I haven't seen a parking plant for this This project and if possible I would like to um Review the parking plan just to make sure that it works and it's not There's a not an over abundance of parking because of uh, you know Screening and buffering and things of that nature. I just want to make sure that maneuverability and the spaces comply So I'd like to offer a provider for a BTD review Thank you Other questions from the board You may have public testimony Yes, Madam Chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services at this time The mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of this board some background information on the community process Our office owner butters being on April 15th We're both the high park central river in the high park neighbor association that were present and express no concern The proposal the happens also met with the high park central river neighborhood group and no concerns were also brought forth to our office at this time We'd like to refer to the board. Thank you Thank you Any other raised hands just go on the uh Warren you looking to get testimony here I can see you looking to get testimony here as well Hi, good morning. I had a question about the parking spots The owner indicated that they have 13 spots that serve the building next door or the structure next door So how many units are in that building? So there's two units on that building so the house next to this building is too family home So just to confirm folks are giving public testimony for or against when I asking additional questions at this time Just either any other Thank you any other questions from the board Okay with that may I have a motion? A motion to approve with bpda designer review and btd review So yes, thank you mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepherd yes Mr. Valencia yes Miss Panato yes, mr. Collins yes Mr. Aiken yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Next we have case b-o-a 142 28848 The address of 432 gallon boulevard is the applicant and or their representative president I can raise an energy on for this proposal Don't see anyone. Hey, let's move on Okay Next we have Case b-o-a 142 0381 the address of 250 minus street is the applicant or their representative president for this proposal Well, yes, my name is Keith Hensman in I prepared the drawings um for Liam and his family and actually I think Liam may be sharing the screen now Uh, and he's quite versatile it talking about it's probably um the main bit of relief we're looking for is side yard ins efficient and so um The existing home you can see here on the plot plan In the proposed addition is on the left side driver inside there And so this is where the side yard with the ins efficient so Liam if you want to go up to the The perspective view the the cover image So the existing home is uh to a half story home And the proposed addition is also uh to a half story And the addition Creates a new side entry on the driveway side um you can see the small overhang there and steps to grade um and creates a full bath on that first floor Uh, at the basement level it just provides additional storage for Your use uh such as a snow floor and that sort of thing And then on the top floor there this Creates a space for an additional bedroom For their family so you can see this is an existing single family home Liam and his family are a long time residents of my not street And they'd like to continue living there and make space for their young family Thank you Any questions from the board Hey here none ma'am public testimony Yes, Madam chair members of the board call our newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services the son mayor's office deferred to the judgment of this board some back information on the community process our office Hosted in a butter's meaning were two of butters from attendants Uh, when a butter expressed their strong support for the proposal Uh, the afternoon then we're not seeing with the ash months adam's group who voted in support of this proposal I would that will defer to the board. Thank you Thank you This wall she's gonna be just one here Uh, no, I'm actually for 32 of yellow bull vodka. I guess I was huge and I couldn't get uh, get you a tie Well, we'll circle back to you later. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I have no audition with you Thank you uh with that man on the motion I'll make a motion to approve with bpda design review ma'am second Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Shepard yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes Miss Panato. Yes, Mr. Collins. Yes, Mr. Aiken. Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Uh At this time we'll try again then for case B.O.A. one, two, two, eight, eight, four, eight The address being 432, Galvan, Boulevard And I believe we have represented for the outcome Yes, Christopher Wallshire Yes, can you uh, walk us through the proposal? Okay, sure. Uh, again, when you were supposed to fall I am the contractor and Representative for Oc Douglas who is the owner of the property I live in Westbridge Water, Massachusetts and we are here today to To pass for various from choose over code violations Floor area ratio excessive as side guidance sufficient The owners purchased this property many years ago with an existing basement Bb bottles it had a kitchen and a bedroom I bought a year ago or two years ago we renovated the house on the first floor of the kitchen and um the Building inspector requested that we file for an approval for the uh, I don't know how to read out I'm sorry legalization of the basement unit, not new to the basement um, space So we did that and uh, it was uh denied uh, as as I said for the two items Uh on the west Uh, the basement as I said was completely modeled when the um, the illness purchased the property The basement space is vital to the family. They too have extended family living with them uh, mother and father elderly mother and father as well as an autistic child who needs the basement unit to um, meet with um, daily with um, therapists um, so we're asking, respectively asking for variants from the zone code violations And they do have off-stream parking and again, this is an existing situation Of which um, they purchased the property as is and uh, that's basically what we're going to try to do We're going to get rid of the existing kitchen and we're going to change it to a bathroom And just a simple red bar down there uh, for washing hands and uh, and then we'll put a bedroom the bedroom that's already there we will put in access Uh, direct access to Ingers window well uh, on the right side On the left side of the property the race house uh, which is um, it's actually a driveway But it's not legal so we don't call that the driveway It's a pain theory that has a wide open gate on the other side Which is only about three feet hundred the opposite that else does have a full driveway that they curb coffee and Uh, uh, working light Um, traffic light Uh, father, father, uh, here truth and existence Uh, exhibits of property Uh, the border room will remain the same The existing bathroom become a closet You know, become organized a little bit uh, a little bit easier Uh, for the uh, for the family The existing stairs will not be touched. There is a door about two or three feet up from the uh, from the stairs on the right as you see there And um, then you can um, you can see it here it's existing and that door will have also have access to the uh, directly access to outside So with that then you respectfully ask for the uh, zoning code uh, variants Um, and I guess that would be a thank you Thank you, sir. Uh, any questions from the board Okay Hearing none. I'm am public testimony Uh, no, can I answer your questions? Of course. Yes. Are there any elevations? Because it's hard to talk by this what This is all below grade Yes, this is a this is a basement. It's below grade about three feet Um, so the window well as you see to the right there that says proposed in grace window well Uh, will be construction in um, you know, Conforming with uh, steam law and social building code and the window will be will be direct access to outside It's only about it would only be about 35 36 inches to get up to the window well, which is well-being the well within the um, And that's the only light coming into this basement you know that well that we know yes Then there's two windows on the left. You see the blue Yeah, windows there. They're small basement windows Is our do we have elevations? No, we don't no Okay, but again you can see those only three steps up to the uh, from the basement floor to the to the level of the parking lot Pay and and ceiling heights in this basement area of all 76 Okay, thank you Any other questions from the board? You're none may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board of Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and neighborhood services This on mayor's office is deferred to the judge with this board. It's in background information on the community process Our office hosted a my butters meeting where no of butters were in attendance Uh, the applicant then went on to the ashmond Adams group who voted to support this proposal With that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you Thank you I have no race hands Thank you. Would that may have a motion To make a motion May I go We don't need to send you because it's internal Uh, the only thing I would ask uh, I hadn't seen serenzyz missed panato If you could add a proviso with no building code relief because we didn't see elevations with basement either So that would be my only ask is no building Okay So I'll give a motion I like to make a motion for With one per diesel What's the horizontal ones out of the I mean second Mr. Snowbridge Yes, Mr. Shepherd Yeah Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Panato Yes, Mr. Collins Yes, Mr. Aiken Yes, chair also looks yes motion carries Good luck Next we have case B081449128 The address being 33397 Hill Avenue Is the applicant and or their representative but Yes, good morning, madam chairman was the board Tom Miller from Derby Quote's familiar of 28 state street Boston representing the applicant Um You're seeing as I said good morning. I'm thored off because you know has stayed earlier. We're running on time and that that's just it's crazy um So I'm joined today by the project architect and that uh not uh back now to go uh a group of architects This proposal before you today will allow the applicant to increase their dining capacity of this restaurant that has been In the neighborhood for over 40 years Uh the proposal was to increase capacity to 30 seating capacity 30 43 seats and the overall capacity to 49 All the proposed work here is interior with no modifications to the footprint of the structure um The this application required for a leaf on two counts first the rest of our use is conditional in this sub district of the dorshester neighborhood zoning district As such we work we require relief for an extension of a nine form use Second this increase in seating capacity requires the addition of off-speed parking Uh, there's currently no off-speed parking at this location Uh, and as we are not modifying the footprint of this long existing lot-size structure There is no ability to add off-speed parking um In addition to this to the abouters meeting held by your one s which i'm sure you're gonna hear about shortly We met with the Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association, which resulted in their support for this project uh simply put ranking the relief in this uh uh granting this relief We'll allow a long existing neighborhood restaurant to better meet the needs of community Uh at this appropriate location with no adverse effect on the stupors Uh, we want to thank the board for uh hearing this application today and we'd be happy to answer any questions you'd have Thank you, Mr. Miller any questions from the board Uh, what's the current seating capacity? 34 Okay, so gone from 34 to 49 three 23 The capacity is 43 overall capacity is will be 49 Okay, thank you Through the chair uh, you know, it was a lot of time for talk Do you have parking in the back already or No, uh as constructed this building is lot size and it has been You know ever since it started so no there's no off-speed parking here This really is a neighborhood restaurant um most of their clientele Walk on the savannilarium It's not actually obvious that the same tenors a new tenant requesting us. No, this is the same ownership This is just upgrading to meet the needs they've seen arise over the time as their own should so they hold it Go Any other questions from the board? You're in non-man public testimony. Oh, yes Madam chair members of the board cornered human with the mayor's office and the neighborhood services this time the mayor's office It's deferred to the judgment of this board Some background information in the community process our office hosted in a butters meeting Where two of butters expressed their support for this proposal? I'll run aware of any concerns As the applicant Out of consultation mentioned they went on to meet with the civic association the Columbia satin hill civic which motor to support this proposal With that will defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you The back may I have a motion? I'm going to approve May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shrefford Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Miss Panato Yes Mr. Collins Yes Mr. Aiken Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you Next we have two companion cases the first being B.O.A. 1.4 Zero I don't know Jessica can you do anything about that? No No, I forget about that. I'm trying to meet someone else. Okay. Thanks Okay, uh to companion cases the first being B.O.A. 1.4.6 Zero 8.1.7 With the address of 4.25 20 street second The other companion case with that is B.O.A. 1.4.6 Zero 8 2.0 With the address of 4.27 20 street Is the applicant and or they represent the program? Yes, thank you Mrs. Stembridge. Thank you Madam Chair. You can members of the board attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor Scanael with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of the applicant and I also have Chris Poole from Zephyr Architects to answer any questions on the architectural side. This is a project it's unique for this area of door gestures. One of the largest lots in the area at 20,020 square feet. This is looking at this would be the lot looking at it straight on Quincy Street and you can see we have an existing off to the right Billing that is uh it was never confirmed properly so we're changing the occupancy but it is laid out and it used currently and rented with tenants as a three unit building that building will remain and we are proposing to subdivide the lot. Lot A will house a little slightly over 5,000 square feet this existing structure which is shown in this picture. I'm sorry Madam Bastard go right to the next slide. Thank you and subdivide the lot and create a new 14,629 square foot arseholes that will house the new proposed condominium project. This project will have an address of 427 Quincy Street 425 will remain as great. This new building would house a proposed 14 residential units with 11 parking spaces. Just to point out we've had a very extensive process going through working with not only the community to get their support but also the BPDA to make changes over the issue. This project originally was at 24 units scaled down out of 14 and that's in doing so we've shaped the design and made agreements all along to keep the existing structures the community both the Bauden Geneva Street Association and Meeting House Hill felt very strongly about so this was all worked out to get their support I know the BPDAs as well and this new project shows two separate buildings so the new building would be the condo building that you're looking at this is the great picture you can see the significant grade change in the project this is this retaining wall that goes all around the the building and rock ledge and that will all remain so that would minimize any chance of blasting which neighbors had asked us to do so this is built on top of that wall and that elevated and that elevation in topography the as I mentioned but also house 11 parking spaces that is entered through an existing driveway 10-foot driveway in the rear coming off of Delavio Street which is our budding street in the back just to go over just to point out as well we did reduce the number of units but we wanted to keep affordability on this project site so we were able to maintain at this unit count two affordable units and collusionary development units on site those units are unit 1b and unit 2a and respectively that's a one-bedroom unit and a two-bedroom the breakdown you can just see this is a side view of the project the breakdown is 7-1 bedroom units 5-2 bedroom units and 2-3 bedroom units for a mix of housing stock to serve the the neighborhood the one beds are on average 608 2 square feet two beds at 790 and three beds at 1150 on average just to go over the layout so level 1 would house two units a lobby and a bedroom to be used by those residents level 2 because of the significant grade change as the 11 parking spaces entered from the bell of you side and it shows it right here nicely you can see the existing driveway that reads to those back spaces um level 3 has five units and then finally level 4 has two units there's also some walk out terrace on the top floor of the project and some rare balconies for those units as well just to go over some of the violations that were mentioned that were receiving relief form one is lot area being at 14,642 square feet we would need FAR relief of this area just 0.5 we're at a 1.15 building a heightened stories we have four story building and we do have that top floor recess significantly from the Quincy Street side but we would be at 50-60 four inches a required zoning relief side guard one side two foot two we would need relief rear yard or at 11 feet and 30 would be required and then parking although we do have 11 parking spaces 1.5 per unit would be required as I mentioned we've really made a number of changes that we went through this process of working with the community groups to get their support and I can pause now to answer any questions at the board here. I hope Mr. Gregor any questions from the board. Yes Mr. Trego, did you have to go through the small projects review with the BBA or or the project the process in the BBA? Of course so we started there Mr. Valencia when we were at a much bigger project as we scaled it down to 14 we were out of the article 80 review round so we will still be working with the BBA for the affordable housing agreements on these two units. Thank you and what were the reasons for the development of the appropriate to reduce the number of units? The BPA felt this is a mix of housing stock there are a lot of multi families they just felt that was just too big of a project and some members of the community felt it was too large so we tried to get to a point where we could get neighborhoods support and BPA support for the project which we now have both but it was very important to the neighborhood of course to retain this existing structure so every proposal that we had kept this three unit off to the lines. Okay thank you thank you can you speak to landscape in the rendering seem to depict some but I don't I'm not sure I see that on the plans. Yeah I'm going to defer to Chris who's with us Chris Browell if he is available to speak. Yeah I believe we did submit a landscape plan with this but it may not have made it into the into this slide deck. The intent is to or they leave as much of the surrounding and interior landscaping for core yard space to be shared between 425 and 427 it creates a nice kind of enclosed space that would be paved as a patio with furniture and outdoor space that can be shared between the two buildings. Much of the existing grass and trees that are existing that can stay the intent is to keep those and we have some extent of to plant along the front edge along 425 that allows. Much of the new hardscape is that is created along the front yard will be for accessible ramping which is not currently existing in existence on these properties so accessing these two properties is going to be a kind of a task unto itself that we're trying to incorporate into the streetscape so it looks more natural and creates a nice pedestrian view as you're entering up rather than the existence of kind of that large brick retaining wall that exists currently. Thank you. I'm going to try to get a nice out of here. All right. All right. Just need to speak. It's so much like the parking works and the size of the curb cut. It doesn't look like the curb cuts on Bellevue but so can you just describe that a little bit that's quite large and I don't know Bob's hearing can weigh in whether it be to be seen anything. The existing curb cut off Bellevue that exists now the problem is just the way it's laying out. It's almost impossible with the way the rocks are set man. It's just overgrowth but you can see right here off of Bellevue coming through the existing curb down that passageway right into the back with a parking space to be lined. I'm sure Bob and Bob wants to chime in. He certainly can but from a letter from an email that he said 427 Quincy Street is OK. BTD can always solve the visibility issues with proper signs. Thank you. Thanks. Any other questions from the board? Would that be above the test line? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. Ashley Gomes from the Office of the neighborhood services. Some background information on the committee process. Office to hold on a butters meeting late of 2022. That we have good community engagement presenting to the areas of the twice. Obtaining good feedback from the butters and civic. No drastic concerns with that. Meeting House Hill has written a letter in support of this project. We're closing. We like to defer the judgment to the sport at this time. Thank you. Good. I have no mistakes at the moment. We're not actually having the board. We're going to get to the Council. Thank you. It's office related more than I can in support. Yep. Without me having a motion. A motion to approve with BPDA design review. We have a second. Take a look. Mr. Steinberg Church. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Members. Next we have. Case B.O.A. 145044046. The address being 30 conflict square. Is the applicant and the way they're represented first? John is on this. This became a panelist. So John, when you accept the panelist as a nation, can you unmute me? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. John Burran, Elpine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 Beach Road, Orleans Mass. Madam Chair and members of the board. We are here in reference to an amendment filed to erect a roof deck which would be for the exclusive use of unit two and two rear decks which within the south end neighborhood code requires the board to issue a conditional use permit. If we could scroll down to A4 on the plans which would better illustrate where the decks are proposed, the two decks will project six feet into the rear yard and will cantilever no post. The lower deck at the power unit, power unit will service unit one and the third floor deck is for unit two. And again, the roof deck is for the exclusive use of unit two. That is the only relief sought under this appeal for a conditional use permit to erect the two rear decks with that open to questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, here in that may I have public testimony. I guess, we're running Madam Chair, members of the board, can crucially from the mayor's office of neighborhood services, the mayor's office is played to defer to the board on this matter. Our office held in a butters meeting in April of 2023 where support was shown by the abutters and any concerns or addressed. They also received a letter of support from the Climate and Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and board. I'm here representing Councillor Tanya Hernandez Anderson. The Councillor would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Have no additional report? Yeah, have no additional raise hands. Thank you. Thank you. Just good. Without me having motion. I need a motion to approve with me. Design review? May I have a second? Okay. Madam Chair, if I may, this is within a landmark district and the BBRA generally deferred to landmarks. Oh, and if you may. My age in the rear of the building, John, so landmarks won't take a look at it. So we'll do the review on this. Okay. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. At this time, Madam Chair, I'd like to jump ahead to the greet discussions scheduled for 1130 and ask if there are any withdrawals or deferrals that will be requested from the timeframe. Yes, Mr. Secretary, one ten to the street. Okay. So are you requesting a deferral for a case BOA one for zero, seven one zero two with the address being one ten to the street? Okay. May I have a motion? Oh, sorry. What's the next available date? The next available date will be June 11. Mr. Shepard. Yes, that's perfect. Do you need me to read my name and address into the reggae and the reason why I'm deferring? If you'd like, yes, please. Sure. The Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam Zomeranci, business address of 168 H Street, first floor, south Boston. We're asking for a deferral based upon the revised plans that were sent over received and updated refusal letter. That refusal letter was missing one dimensional violation that needs to be added back in. So just requesting again a short deferral in July 11 will work great. Yeah, great. A little bit there, Adam. One ten to the street. Thank you. And sorry, what was that? June or July 11, Mr. Shepard? Oh, thank you, managers. You're well. July. Okay. Thank you. Okay, without me, I have a motion. A motion. Madam Chair. Yes. Sorry, this is Sam. In the circumstance that ISD has missed a violation. It has been recommended that we give them a date of about three weeks out just with an uptime to re-advertise, but not too long that it burdens them on the applicant. Okay. With that, those sufficient to the board and the applicant. And we're fine with the July 11 date as well. It will give us a sufficient time to send over an email to ISD board declaring out which violation should have been cited. Okay, thank you, Attorney Spitz. Great. Thank you. I'm going to chair. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, I'm sorry. Where was I? Uh, can, uh, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Sorry, it's a motion to defer, isn't it? To defer, yeah, to approve the deferral. Sorry. To defer. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Okay, Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Please. July. And returning through the last case, with the 11 o'clock hearing. Case B-O-A. 134-0197. The address being 357-361-A. On the street. Did the applicants enter with their representative president? Yes. Yes. Yes. Can you hear me? We would like to proceed. Yes. Please. Hi, my name is former Miss Tashio. I'm the owner of Bencladow Restaurant. Located at 3, uh, 57-361-A. On the end of the street. Um, I operate the restaurant. What we look at to propose is a, um, go from 49 seats to 60 seats. Um, I've had, um, a brother's meetings and I had no opposition and I have a letter of support from my director, but I located that by seven street. And it's, um, LLC, LLC, a code of reference, and she gave me, she's my director, the brother she gave me, a letter of support. Um, we had an abundance of me and that, well, I, uh, on us will go through that, but can you confirm what the maximum allowed occupancy, uh, for, for this space is? 60. 60. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, can we have public testimony? Third afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Sarah Jimmy Goff from the Mayor's Office of New Work Services. Applicated, we see, uh, the committee process. We did not hold in our others meeting. They janko to the civic groups as well. We were at a new neck and they did receive a letter of support from new rep. At this time, our office went to the front of the board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Let me try him no more. I'll wait for him. Okay. Would that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Sorry. Mr. Staprich. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we'll move into the recommendations scheduled for 11 AM. I will read through the board's recommendations, I'll read through the subcommittee's recommendation. Give the decision and go through the section. First, we have case B-O-A, one for five, one for zero four. The address being 46 cross-town Avenue. This was approved with BPD and Design Review. Next, we have case B-O-A, one for three, five, zero four, zero seven. The address being 44 R, World War Eight Street. This was approved. Case B-O-A, eight, eight, one, zero, six, eight. But the address being 676 to 16 E Truman Parkway. This was approved through the previous provider. Next, we have case B-O-A, one for three, two, eight, six, eight. But the address being 242 Fairmont Avenue. This was approved for two families with the provider to eliminate parking spaces, number three. Next, we have case B-O-A, one for three, six, three, one seven. The address being 38-tonnevener. This was approved. Case B-O-A, one for four, nine zero five five. The address being 34-Housey Road. This was approved. Case B-O-A, one for five, one zero, zero five. With the address being one, one, one, nine, Bateman Street. This was approved with BPDA Design Review and No Dover Code. Case B-O-A, one for four, two, four, six, three. The address 10 Manor Street. This was approved. Next, we have case B-O-A, one for three, four, four, four, three. The address being 26 Speedwell Street. This was approved. Next, we have case B-O-A, one, three, four, nine, seven, three, six. The address of 906, just the revenue. This was approved. Case B-O-A, one for four, three, one, three, three. Address of 34 Five Street. This was approved with BPDA Design. Case B-O-A, one for three, one, nine, three, nine. The address of 64 Harvest Street was approved with the provisional of an internal staircase and hatch access to the blue deck. Case B-O-A, one, four, five, two, seven, reserve. The address of 509 East First Street was approved. Case B-O-A, one, four, four, two, eight, one, zero. The address being 551 East First Street was approved with the provisional of BPDA Design. Case B-O-A, one, four, two, eight, six, three, one. The address of 23 Harvest Street was approved with the provisional of no building code relief and accessibility review. Two companion cases, case B-O-A, one, three, four, zero, one, nine, eight. With the address of 109 to 109 East First Street, case B-O-A, one, three, four, zero, two, zero, four, the address of 111 to 118 East First Street was approved with the provisional of no building code relief and accessibility review. And last we have case B-O-A, one, four, zero, five, two, nine, one. With the address of 924 East Fourth Street, this was approved with the provisional of BPDA Design Review and the huge vulnerable materials for the second part of the space. And that- Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sanbridge. Mr. Sanbridge. May I have a motion? Motion to approve the committee recommendations. May I have a second? Second, the comments. Mr. Sanbridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Returning to the rediscussions for 1130A, we have case B-O-A, one, four, one, nine, one, eight, two. The address being 543 East First Street is the applicant in or there representative? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, member of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, for balance and marancy, business address of 168H Street First Floor. South Boston. With me today are the owners, Joe and Paul Holland. Also joining us is the architect Justin White. This is a proposal for a full-gotten renovation of an existing three-family dwelling by way of a rare addition. I want to do it. If I could direct two pages, two in three, and also there will be a color page on page six, that can kind of define this a little bit better as I go through. This is a unique proposal as it consists of two parcels, which the plot plans can be seen on pages two and three. The first parcel, which contains the existing three families, approximately 1,480 square feet. The second parcel in the rare, which is vacant land that is landlocked and is approximately 2,460 square feet. This application doesn't call to combine the lots as much as the owners would have preferred to have done so, as there is a four-foot easement in the rare, the property for the two-or-budding owners to use that means of egress. As for the extensions, a little bit of space on the first parcel, you will notice there are rare multi-level decks that are partially covered, which will be removed to provide for the addition. Those decks currently extend approximately 5.1 feet off of the four-foot passageway in the rare. The addition, which will be replaced in those decks, will extend approximately 3.1 feet off of the passageway. So that will be just the two-foot extension beyond the current location of those decks for the addition. If I could direct you to page 11, you'll see here that vacant parcel will be in open space area with trees, plantings, and a payable area that will be dedicated to those unit owners. A few things here. This is a classic example of a previous project that Joe and Paul Holland has done before with the typical second lot that was landlocked in the rare. And again, this will be in open space area dedicated to committed to those unit owners. And I personally believe that it will be a pleasure for all abutting owners when looking out their windows to see a beautiful landscape area such as this, versus what it is today. And now if I can direct your attention to page 8, I'm going to go through the unit layouts for the addition. Unit 1 is approximately 2,436 square feet and will consist of half of the garden level in the first floor. You can see that, yes, perfect. The front part of the garden level will consist of a common storage and mechanicals. The back of the garden level is a full walk out onto the rear of the property that will have two bedrooms in a dining area for additional space. The first floor will consist of two bedrooms and an open concept living room dining in kitchen. Unit 2 is approximately 1,356 square feet and will be located on the second floor that will consist of three bedrooms and an open dining kitchen in living room. Unit 3 will be approximately 1,348 square feet and will be located on the third floor that will consist of two bedrooms, a media room, an open dining kitchen and living room as well. Bedroom here from the original proposal was reduced from 11 bedrooms down to 9 and we have the following violations. We have our room structure restriction as we are extending that room flying with the addition. We have an FAR and open space violation as you see here. But unfortunately these violations would have went away if we were able to combine these lots but again, just calling to the fact because of this no-foot easement we were unable to combine these two parcels. We do have an insufficient side yard setback. The addition stays in line with the existing structure of the dimensions as you can see through the poplins which are located back on page 2 and 3. Again, the insufficient grey yard violation. Again, we have this violation as we are unable to combine the parcels again due to the full foot easement and then the last violation we have is an extension into the grey yard of a thousand square feet or more. The total proposed square footage for the addition is approximately 1,815 square feet. At this point in time, I am going to pause for any questions from the board. Thank you. All right. Questions from the board. Okay, you're in none. Can I take public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted a butters meeting for 543 East 7th Street and January 11th, 2023. Around a dozen of butters were present. The proponent answered all questions. The neighbors were concerned about the current condition of the property and a few objected to the proponent increasing the building size, especially in the back. ONS received a call from a direct-to-butter and opposition and received one letter and opposition. ONS received one letter and support from a butter as well. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Calderon from Council for Pression and Flames Office. The councilor would like to go and record if support based on our good community process and feedback from both neighbors and the date of heaven and neighborhood association. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Kevin and the dean. I guess, um, can I wear a little bit? 545 East 7th. I'm speaking on the self-identity and the two other owners that have thought of that and multiple of the neighbors throughout the neighborhood last year. So I want to thank the home brothers and sisters that have been pretty old-round direct communication. They have been attentive to our work. You get to whether you're in support or opposition and why. Thank you. Yes, we are in opposition of the 18th for addition. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We have a backyard that directly bucks it. The 18th for addition would impact our views from the backyard, impact all of the neighbors with their back decks. We're impacting sunlight into the backyard and the work that will need to be completed they will have to access our backyard directly and find one's backyard directly. And that would take weeks to months on our property building that. So we are on the renovation. We are against the addition. Thank you. Danny? Hey, yeah, I love on Kay Street. There's really nowhere else for us to park right now. So we can't afford to be putting anymore cars in the streets. So I support this project and I support any off street parking that is not going to take up more spots for me in the street. Thank you. I'm Tommy. You're looking to give testimony here. Yes, you do. I have a project on the 7th street. I grew up in South Austin. Bechler Ave is definitely not a dead end or one way street. Cars parked north to South to North. I know people on Bechler Ave are upset. But unfortunately the parking in South Austin is ridiculous. We need that for lots. But I continue on. Sorry. You need to support us. I mean, I'm in support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the film. We're making donations online. We're on the phone. There are two members of the board. All of us are not so far. We're going to try to put it in support. Bruno M. You're looking to give testimony here. Yes, I believe Tommy was speaking to the wrong. Okay. Yeah, I don't know. Everybody's talking about parking. I'm not sure. Then I'll get to Lesley. Are you looking to get testimony for this proposal? My interrupt for a minute. I believe they're speaking about the next South Boston project. Five, nine, eight, eight, eight, eight. Sorry about that. All right. Thank you. Okay. Additional resources. Those were not raised hands in support of this project, and I don't believe so. I think they were talking about the one that impacts Beckler Ab, which is East Feth Street. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Hampton, can you win? So we understand your recommendation. Thank you, Madam Chair. It was board, Jeff Hant, and Senior Zone Planner. We recommended to now without prejudice, as you can see in the plants, the extension comes within just about three feet of the property line. So filling in that area, it is really taking away the open space. The other thing too, there was no landscaping plan provided to us. The plans that were provided to us from ISD simply had that back lot shaded green. So, if the board order were proven this, I'd ask that they were landscaping plan be done, submitted to the BPVA for approval, so that that back lot is indeed landscape and not just left to where it is, but we're on the record is done out without prejudice. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I respond? I'd like to leave any other questions from the board. You can respond all that was. We have the new Orleans, New York one, landscaping, drawing as well. We got that this morning, so I did see that. Okay, and you, Mr. Hasek? Did you respond to the concern that you have to access your neighbor's property to build this addition? Yes, so the response to that is, so as you can see where the decks lie existing, the decks are actually extending out approximately five feet, 5.1 feet from the actual rare property line. This new addition will be removing those decks and putting on a little space addition that will be approximately 3.1 feet. From the property line, so it's in fact a two foot increase of the actual existing dwelling. So I don't see how much further that would impact actual views or anything in sight in that sense. Again, because it's a minimal, diminimus increase in the actual setback there. And again, if I can address Mr. Hampton's comments as well, I'm not quite sure if that recommendation was based upon just this one parcel. And again, we would have preferred to combine these parcels, but we needed to adhere to that full foot passageway and cannot obstruct it in any manner whatsoever. But again, that vacant lock, which is landlocked here, is part of this proposal here. It will be committed to the landscaping, is the screen that was just up, the landscaping plan. And again, it will be much more of a view, a better view and a better site compared to what is actually there today. And during the community process, that was one thing that was spoken about the neighbors, considering that it just collects trash, and the owners have been doing the best they can to put the upkeep and maintenance. But they were excited when that space was going to be rejuvenated into a nice green space area too. And my question about access? Access, well, I believe in special service, the laws, when you're sitting living, there's tight quadrants and tight maneuverability when end making any sort of repairs. And there's an allowance that allows owners to use their neighbor's property by legally rightful to do such in order to make those repairs. However, liability insurance will be taking out, and the property will be restored if there was any sort of damage that was done to this property. And again, it will be done in a timely, fashionable manner, so it doesn't be convenient to any of the owners. Thank you. Any other final questions from the board? Okay, you're none. May I have a motion? I'll motion to approve with BPD design review, especially in regards to the landscape, and that back lot area there. Okay, now, second. Take one. Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Mr. Collins. Chair also, motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-130-9297. The address of one effort street is the applicant in the law they represent the public. Yes, sir. Good afternoon. Secretary Madame Chair, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, T. Miller, 20th, State Street, Boston, representing the owner and developer, Avery RTG, Mr. Richard Grafo, who's with us also with me, is Bill Packeth from Pazania, Associates, who is the architect for this. If I may, I'd like to take you through the beginning of the presentation, then that's bill to show you the plans and more details. Is that okay, Madame Chair? Yes. Thank you very much. Next, please, page please. Madame Ambassador. So just to bring you to the site, one effort street, you'll see in the yellow hash is a corner lot of about 8,000 square feet at the intersection of Orleans and the Everett Street, the Jeffries Point section of East Boston. It is within, as you'll see here, a 700 foot very short block to the blue line station, Maverick. Next slide, please. So existing conditions, we have an existing non-conforming structure and uses in the 3F-2000 zone, you'll see in the foreground, one-ever street, it is an existing single-story building with a couple garage bays and a small extension. It is almost all covered with asphalt, the remaining section of it, not producing its highest and best use. Currently, East Boston CrossFit is a tenant in the garage section and the Suffolk DA's office has an office use. So existing use fitness and office. Next slide, please. Sorry about that. So what we are proposing is a development without displacement that would activate this prominent corner site and improve the environment and bring housing and keep the mix uses which are there today. So what that means currently is we are proposing a three-story build language you'll see in the plans to follow, but if you stay on this, on the slide, I'll go through this very quickly. And 14 residential units on the second and third level is intended to be a boutique home ownership. Conominium home ownership, those units are a mix of two bedrooms, one bedrooms and studios from about a thousand square feet down to 450 at the studio level. We have seven parking spaces which we think is an appropriate amount considering the location and also the need for some open space. So as part of this project, we started two years ago reaching out. We are in the Jeffree's Point neighborhood, as I mentioned. Working with the Jeffree's Point neighborhood association, we had eight meetings within them. On May 11th, they set you a letter of support which we're very proud of. There was a lot of work. We started with a four-story building that was subject to article 80 small project review. We're going to have stories 30 units through this inter-acrosses of the last two years. We have reduced that so it's now less than article 80 threshold and is restores in 14 units with seven parking spaces. We also received a recommendation from the BPDA on February 17th which we've worked hard to address. We are in the East Boston iPod section. We greatly appreciate the guidance from the BPDA what we heard was early on when we were a small project that was concerned from the BPDA about the height. So we took it down to three stories and that obviously took us out of article 80. They had an issue to recommendation with concern about a lot coverage which we clarified were merely 39 percent of coverage for the building footprint. We also reduced the dimensions of the driveway so that we'd have less surface area and we changed the parking access area to permeable paving and added additional green and open space puffering. Very much aware that we're in the iPod and looking forward to continuing to work with the BPDA should we have the pleasure of being approved. At this point I'd like to hand it over to Bill Packett to take you through the plans. I'm sorry. Speak to the zone and quick and then hand it off to Bill Packett. So just very quickly Madam Chair as I mentioned we are in a three up two thousand zone. The two uses that we're seeking to keep. East Boston CrossFit is a local on-dannabrated business which we're providing a new space for. And also to keep the small office space with the South of County DAs interested in coming back to as well. Those two require variances because again they're existing non-conforming as does the multi-family residential. We are compliant with a height at 34 feet. 35 is required. We require variance for FAR. One is required we're at 1.91 so it's barely modest. And the existing non-conformities with respect to the Laud area we do not have enough. So we need a variance for the mid-aid Laud area ratio. We are modeled with the front yard and supplying with the side. And the other thing I will know we are in an overlay for groundwater conservation overlay district. Sometime ago we submitted the full approval letter from Boston Water Insurer which should be in your files with ISD. Next slide and Bill Packett. Bill? So just a quick question. I know you mentioned you went out of article any process. So are there any affordable units associated with this? Yes, ma'am. Sorry, sorry to. Yes, we have two affordable units. And as you'll see in this site plan one of the things we heard from the PDA after getting under article 80 was sort of like do we have too much parking and this is a home ownership program. And so we're trying to balance permeability and open space but also active vacation for a mixed use building which you're seeing here. And so we have two affordable units and we will need to go through the BPDA process for that but we're proud that we're able to add those especially as the need is for home ownership in particular. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So Madam Chair, members of the board, what's on your screens right now is a site plan that we're proposing. And just as we have explanation the color dating around the building is white. The color paving around the building is actually set the building set from the property lines. So we're providing a wider sidewalk than the existing sidewalk now. We set back five feet from the sidewalks at both Everett Street and Harleed. The residential entrance is at the end of the building that's more towards the bottom of your screen. The commercial entrance is at the corner of Everett in Harleed so the two are distinctly separate. The stuff plan also shows the parking in the rear of the building where the cars are indicated is actually underneath the second floor above so it's covered parking but it is open. We show seven spaces one of which is a space that will be dedicated to the the rental space dedicated to the building occupants and that would be an electric car with a charging station. We also show we show the additional five trees and on or leans currently there's a very wide curb cut that we propose to eliminate entirely although we would like to do introduce a loading spot right in front of the residential entrance that could be for the package delivery or a ride share pickup and the actual parking access is off Everett Street. There's an existing curb cut there now that we would relocate to align with the with the driveway entrance. Next slide please. Well this slide shows the elevation along the top is the Orlean Street elevation and this shows a relative height to what the zoom x building which is the the abutting building we're virtually at the same height you can see we're three-story. The residential entrance is indicated in brick we have the stair and elevator tower we propose in brick and the rest of that ground floor would be mostly a glass on Orlean Street with more brick introduced on Everett Street. Two stories of residential above with the sort of articulation of the units. I think Joe went through the units. Next slide please. The top shows the park the the back elevation that shows the parking below with the units above with some balconies these are self-ease-facing balconies in the lower elevation shows the brick the stair and elevator for the residential use and the two units are two floors of residential units above parking the next next slide please. The ground floor plan we show three commercial spaces of a thousand square feet three hundred thirty five square feet and five hundred forty square feet I think this configuration can be can be adjusted as a project moves forward you can see the commercial entrance is on the corner the residential entrance is more towards the the bottom of the drawing towards towards the zoom x stairway and elevator with abstract direct access to the parking of the rear as well as from Orlean Street. Next slide please. This shows the residential floors they're they're very very similar virtually I I think we have on each floor there are there are two studios four one bedroom units and and there's a two bedroom unit at the very at the corner of the building. The only difference is on the top floor there is some access some of the access some of the units have access is to individually dedicated roof decks next slide please. In the pink cash you'll see Madam Chair of the Importable Units. Yes sorry. Thank you. And this just shows a roof a roof plan with deck successful directly from units below you see the decks are set well back from the edge of the building and then we we also show a conical room on the other roof to provide centralized mechanical system for the building. Next slide. Section showing the relative height there's a billion a department building across the street which will be taller than that then what we propose and this shows the parking below the second floor and next slide. Once again an exterior image taken from Orlean Street looking at the corner and the building in general next. An image looking down Orlean Street from in front of the zoom x building and one more please. And it burns I view showing the the building in its general context in the neighborhood. I believe I believe that's it so I'll turn it back over to you thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I asked Madam Chair I do have a few questions. Yes. Thank you for this presentation I've walked by the site regularly a couple of questions. Can you confirm that basically where there are no street trees now you're planning in going for approvals to plant it looks like five or six street trees. Yes sir the story I can we're very excited about it we're inspired by you know East Boston has been advocating for full growth tree canopies and there are none today you know this is really just all asphalt that's there so we'll have full you know and it's still indicated in a straight can because we're widening the sidewalk these are narrow sidewalks that allows us to have adequate tree breaks which then has these trees to survive and continue to flourish and have deep roots so. Yes sir thank you and then can you talk a little bit more about kind of the street level there you know got an outdoor seating you're going to have the crossfit there what's going to be the the sort of pedestrian experience as you know Miss Panato Rob in prior cases are there with fitness center what is good to be that the seating is that intended only then for private use because it's within private property when the fitness center is open just not quite clear exactly what's being proposed there in law. Yes so if you walk by this and have your who's the local business owner you know it's a popular e-spotting crossfit and obviously we want to be able to contain the sound which you can't really do now because it's so that's you know within but after a workout the idea is to have a little bit of seating and that all can also can be used it's not a huge space but all can also can be used by folks that are passing by and really to activate the ground floor Bill do you want to add anything to that? No I think that that pretty well describes it I think it's a it's a space that's possibility to have a couple of tables and chairs could be places to sit down and have a soda after the workout or something like that I think that's how we see it. Yeah how are going to have new homeowners obviously living above so really trying to integrate this and activate this corner which has been neglected for a while. Okay and then it looks like you have some outdoor space for some units but perhaps none of the units in the front have any outdoor spaces that correct? That's correct that's correct that's the rear spaces have balconies and some of the some of the the front units a couple of the front units on the top floor out of the roof decks otherwise they don't have dedicated open space some of you. Okay thank you. Mr. Domingo do you have your hand on this? Yes, Madam Chairman is on the board Bob the maker B.T.D. I'd like to request clarification of the loading and unloading location. If Bill do you want to so thank you Bob that's something that you know these these it's a relatively small mixed use component here right that square footage one is the fitness use the others the office so not expected to generate a lot of receiving but there is a commercial aspect so Bill do you want to speak to what we're thinking about here you see on the plan? Yes I'd like to discuss it because you can't take away any space on a public street for private use. Yeah yes so right now there are no spaces there's a giant curb that runs almost the entire linear section so we're actually not taking away spaces we're bringing back spaces are delivering spaces to the neighborhood. So where's the location for loading you're not loading I don't see it. Well the the intent was to have a space in front of the residential entrance that would be used for instead of having having a delivery truck blocking the street and we go to have a place where the delivery truck will go over while delivering packages in the area and also for over and left for ride sharing a taxi we go down a place in front of the door for that sort of pickup because a lot of people that probably a lot of people use those services and if you have 14 units there may be people that want to use those services and also it can be available for other other people in the neighborhood it wouldn't be necessarily dedicated to our who are proposed building but it would be a place that would be available for the general general services as described to pull over and be off the street. Yeah Mr. Domingue this was something that was driven in part by the Arctic the lady process when we started when we were subject to small project review to have that facility but clearly now that we're out of that should we have the pleasure of approval we would be looking to work with your office and the BPDA on the appropriateness of this. Okay let me say I don't know whether I'm clear or not where is the loading and unloading space can you please show me. Can we see the site plan please the colored site plan. BPDA 6H668F8M Madam Chair on Madam Ambassador. Are you able to scroll back Madam Ambassador? Madam Chair. Madam Chair. It's A1.0. Okay. At the very near the residential entrance right in front of the residential entrance it's indicated it's next to the the wide curb cut that gives zoom to zoom makes this parking area. So it'd be really a continuation of their space. Okay so it's off the street it's on the street. No it's on the street. Okay you can't do that. Well this it's not the okay. Is the museum? I'll make my comments now when there's a vote. Okay just to clarify too there is no requirement for off-street loading here based on the de minimis size of this mix use of the commercial space. However as you'll see we do have a dedicated driveway which we've made narrower in working with BPDA but certainly we have the ability to accommodate this and to work proactively which I think we've demonstrated over the last two years should we have the opportunity to work with you further in the district of Meiko. Thank you. Madam Chair just let me say this there are a block away from Maverick station. I know I've lived in Jeffies Point for 60 years and there's absolutely no need to have a drop off a pick-up spot for ubers or taxis or whatever it may be and well like I said I just want to go in the right kind of position to this plan for loading and unloading on a public street. Thank you Bob. Any other questions from the board? Okay here none can we public testimony? Yes good morning Madam Chair or good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board and it's all you've been eating with the mayor's office of Meiko and service says oh and I suppose it's in a butter's meeting for the current proposal on September 27, 2022. Only one of our attend the meeting and forest full support for the project. The applicant also has met eight different times with the Jeffies Point Newer Association. The association had voted to oppose to the initial proposal so the applicant then agreed to reduce the square footage, reduce 16 units and 1.5 stories. Also the main developer worked with the association and community so the Jeffies Point Newer Association issued a letter of support with 11 residents in favor and six in opposition. Our office has received five letters in support and at this time our office will like to the forejudge into the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board my name is Sebastian Parra I'm the East Boston Lee's on First City Council of February, Colorado based on JP and a support and of this project the council will like to vote and support up it as well. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Madam Chair members of the board mine up for us representing the Carpenters Union on behalf of our Boston residents who like going backwards forward in the project. Madam Chair I have no additional words here at the moment. Thank you. Any other final questions from the board? Okay. Was that me? I have a motion. Do we want to hear the BPTA recommendation on us? Yes. I just put out of my hand with Scott. This originally was before you back in January so it's almost been four months since they asked for it to for all one hour concerns on the project and I know they've met at least two times in the community and with staff at the BPTA to address their concerns and although we only get one bite of the apple the BPTA is comfortable with the with how the appellan is addressed concerns that we have put forward so I would just ask if the board were to approve it that we ask for design for the ones. Thank you. Thank you. Okay so I'll make a motion for approval with BPTA design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Are you meeting Mr. Stambridge? Yes I will. Okay. Can you can you vote? Do you answer your question? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Bernardo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B O A 950 222 the address of one common street and this is a whole this is a companion case to case B O A 950 227 with the address of one A common street. Is the applicant and will they represent the president? Yes I am. I'm Madam Chair members of the board. This is Mike Ross. Excuse me. Lawful and Principal Val I'm here with my colleague Les Hawkins. Well, so here with architect James Christopher. This is a proposal to replace a five day garage with a three unit building. What you see here on slide one is a site plan. The site plan. There's the existing three family on the left and the proposed project is there on the right. This is an existing that you could just stay here for a second. Madam Baster if you could. There you go. This is an existing 6,000 square foot lot. Moose lots in this immediate area. This three five three out five thousand in district are nonconforming. At around 6,000 square feet the effort here is to divide this lot and then to build on the corner what you see there on the corner of Carmen and Vassar a three a three family house in that site. There is a curb cut on Vassar street and what's there today at the corner of Vassar and Carmen is a five bay garage. So I'll show you that in a second. You go to the next slide please. So this is your kind of floor plan and site plan still. You can see both at the top and at the bottom you can see the existing curb cut on Vassar street for the unit. You can see the floor plan on the corner of what is unit one. And here you what you can see are the other lot sizes that are on both Carmen street and Vassar street. Carmen at the top and Vassar at the bottom. And the Vassar street lots are around 3500 square feet as I mentioned. And then our lot is right there at the corner as proposed with the split. Next slide please. So this is now a closer floor plan version of both the existing three family building on the left and the proposed three family building on the right. So what you see here now is unit one. The first floor unit one is a duplex. It's a 1600 nine square foot duplex with all living all bedroom on the first floor. And then on the in the in the bottom floor the basement unit is no no bedrooms. It's it's a living room space. So I'll show you that on the next slide if you will. I'm Vassar. And you look on the right that's your floor plan for the basement plan there. So on that it's really beginning with the right going right to left that's your your basement unit for unit one. So what we did there the changes that this is obviously was a deferral and we're coming back to you. So one of the key changes that we made where we moved the the living the bedroom spaces up to the top floor. So that's a two bedroom two bath now with the with the basement unit unit having no further living space in terms of bedrooms. So that what you have there is just the you know like the kitchen in the living room area and the bathroom. You'll also see bubbles on both sides of the building. So what those bubbles are where they reflect changes to the plan. They were increased window well sizes and increased window openings on both of those. So I'll show you an elevation in a minute so you can get a sense of what we're looking at there. But those were the key changes that were made before you know after the deferral. The center floor plan shows you the entirety of unit two. Unit two is a thousand ninety square foot three bedroom two bath unit. And then at the rear of unit two you see the outdoor space which is a porch that overhangs the property. And then on the third unit on the left most part of these plans is unit three and that's a one thousand ninety square foot unit. Again that is also a three bedroom two bath with open space in the rear of the building. Next slide please. So here slide five are your elevations. It shows you the kind of increased size of the casement window in the basement as well as the increased window well size which are in the front of the building on the left that is accessible. You can see the room. They're allowing access. It shows you also the parking area. That's the an existing curb cut that's there today. And then it shows you those two balconies off the right off the back of the building. It's also there are there is a little bit of open space as well on the to on the front of the building. Those two balconies there that you see on the left. Next slide please. So these are the other two elevations the right side of the building and the rear side of the building. And then as you can see there we increased we put two casement windows in that case and also increased the size of the window well. So those are those were the main changes to the plan. Next slide please. We did prepare this internal elevation case any questions about what the basement unit looks like. So the basement unit again there's no bedrooms down there but to the extent that there's any space down there the space is eight foot ceilings and the cell height begins at 36 inches. Next slide please. So here I just wanted to show you what's there today. As you can see it's a tightly kind of tight community here in terms of all the lot sizes in the area. And with this pad is this or has today and will proposely change is it has this five big one story garage just kind of station here and what we're proposing again is to replace it with the three family house. So the next slide shows you kind of this next slide please we'll show you what we're proposing in rendering format right there. And then let me just quickly if I could go through the zoning. So there's two zoning's there's an ERT and LT associated with this proposal. We were able to reduce the number of zoning violations by three in total. The ERT the proposed project here that you see that we're proposing was cited for several violations. I'll quickly run through those. Parking requires one unit one parking space per unit. We have two spaces the traffic visibility in that this is at a corner building alignment to the other existing building frontages. The lot area as I mentioned is undersized we're at 2539 in a 5000. The lot width which I've mentioned throughout the district is also around 40. This is at 38.9 in what's required to be 50 feet. The lot the lot frontage is the same as the width. The FAR we're in a .5 FAR district. Again most everyone is over FAR we're at 1.83. Number of stories were okay on high but stories the requirements two and a half were at three. The side yard requires 10 again most aren't conforming we're at two and then the rear yard same most are 9.9. We're at 19 as opposed to a quiet 30 because the house on the left was divided to allow for that parcel. It created four violations. Parking the lot area the lot area for the house on the left is actually 34.58 square feet in a 5000. The FAR for the house on the left would be 1.73 and then the side yard set back on the left would be 7.2. Maybe a pause there and see if there are any questions. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Can you hear me? Hearing live? Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. I should go to the Office of the Negro Services. Some back on information on the committee process are office did hold an uppercurse meeting of July of 2022. The applicant had a meeting gave me a presenting to the Harvard Washington Moral Association about five times. The proponent did feel that they made changes in detailed requirements to suffice the betters and civic association. With that the Harvard Washington neighborhood association has rejected their support in this project but one letter in support from a local operator. I'm closing with it to defer the judgment to the board at this time. Thank you. Okay. We're looking to get testimony again. Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is IEMIDA or when we were from the Office of the Council of the Royal and regards to one slash way carbon street and the feedback from others including the changes that were made. They have a committed to installing security cameras and committed to no construction on the weekends. Like Ms. Williams said, there's one letter of support from the budding civic and with that the council would like to defer to the board and recommend it and recommend the BPDI desired you have approved. Thank you. Bob Domingo? Yes, I'm Madam Chair. Members of the board, Bob Domingo, BPDI. I know one of the violations is visibility across the corner but this is something that is quite usual so I am not opposition to that violation. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional words for any other questions from the board. Here none may I have a motion? A motion to approve with BPDI. May I have a second? Is that okay? Mr. Stumbridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Cheryl Silverow? Yes. Motion carries. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any time. Thank you. Next we have case VOA 1-4-0-4-3-0-4. The address being 599-6-01 East District is the applicant and or the representative. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy. Business address of 168 H Street, Thurston, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner, Andrew Ellwick. The proposal in front of us today is for a use of premise permit to allow for three off-street parking spaces in the rear of 599 East District, which is an existing three family. I just wanted to clarify that the advertisement in the agenda was incorrect for this. That was the previous proposal. Our revised plans were submitted and were accepted. We're sent back to us, reflecting the change in the plans to three parking spaces, as well as an updated refusal. So again, so this proposal calls for three side-by-side spaces measuring eight and a half by 20 feet. The rear parking will be accessed by a public way named Beckler Avenue, which is located off of K Street. I just want to give you a little more insight on Beckler Avenue. So Beckler Avenue is a public way in a dead end street, which leads directly into the rear lot of 599 East Street. There is parking only on the right hand side of Beckler Avenue. Currently, South Boston residents pull down Beckler Avenue and then we'll have to reverse out of Beckler Avenue onto K Street as there is no maneuverability to turn their vehicles around and drive the nose of the car out back onto K Street. As for this parking proposal, cars will safely drive straight down Beckler Avenue to an already existing 9 foot 10-inch opening to access the parking area. When exiting, there is sufficient space for the vehicles to maneuver entirely on their own property and then drive safely straight down Beckler Avenue to back down to K Street. On the first page of the drawings, there's a scaled image from Google Maps showing the existing condition, which is an in-ground pool or which remaining of an in-ground pool in the surrounding paving. Next is the proposed condition showing permeable papers for the parking spaces to assist with drainage, a new shade tree in the Rayard and evergreen plantings in the 4 foot side yard buffer. The Festified Trug Columbine English U is a salt tolerance to withstand the winter salts. There is also a locust plant in the upper left corner. Lastly, a comprehensive drainage plant has already been approved by the Boston Water and Sewer Company that leads us with, we have, on the updated refusal, we were cited for two violations. One for access to the parking area is not 10 foot wide. Again, I just want to reiterate, there's an existing passageway already in place that is 9 feet 10 inches. And then also, we were cited for open space, but we believe this was, this citation was given an error. Currently, as far as open space is approximately 2,365 square feet of open space, but with the parking allocated into it, it reduces the parking space down to 1,001 square feet. What is compliant here is 2,200 square feet per unit, so that would give us an equivalent of 600 square feet for this existing three-family home here. So again, that violation would be given an error. So at this point in time, I'm going to pause for any questions from the board. Thank you. And I think, I think, on us, can answer this, but again, you are outtouched for six, and the BPDA's recommendation is based on six parking spaces. Has there been process since then around the three? Yes, there was, and I'm sure, in a light from the mayor's office, can naturally testify. So we've had two of butters meetings, and as well as a full in-person civic meeting as well. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, let's go to public testimony. Yeah, afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wade with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I'm an ask-host of the butters meeting for 599-611-5th Street on November 29th, 2022. Close to a dozen of butters attempt at the meeting. The ones who spoke had many concerns and objections about the proposal. The main concern had to do with increasing the number of cars driving on backlar avenue. We've received five letters in opposition and two in support. Those of all those who shared with the board at this time would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the Mayor, Anna Carter, from Council of President Flink's Office. The councilor would like to go and record in opposition, those two due to these proposals are based on its long-standing focus on pedestrian safety in the neighborhood. Of note, there was a good community process where the team worked with neighbors on several designs of the projects in number of parking spaces, as well as attention to drainage or snow removal issues, which did gain support in the community. However, other neighbors, avarters and young families on backlar avenue ultimately express concern that this project will change the dynamic of the area, three that they have known, and will lead to pedestrian safety issues. At this time, Council President Flink is supposed to truly focus on pedestrian safety. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, from Councilor City Councilor, outlaw, Michael Flare, acknowledging the two of us that went to drafting part 68, our product that do want merit, is do want the councilor has heard from all parties in the neighborhood. Do this project. There was a community process where the proposal went through some reiterations with neighbors on designs as far as the number of spaces, attention to drainage and snow removal. There is some support at this particular time. Council feels that with the parking crisis going on south-brosondet at six spaces would be out from neighborhood through that in the current support. Danny? Yeah, I support any and all off street parking. Oh, can you switch your name and address in the record? I look on K-335K Street, Danny Picad. We can't find any parking on the street as it is. It's really getting out of hand. It's ridiculous. So I support this project strongly and I support any and all off street parking. Thank you. Tommy, go ahead. Can you say your name and address for the record? Tell us if you can support that position. Danny? In the M573E 7th Street, we have a couple of projects there. Developer. I'm in support of the project. Cows go north to south, south to north on Beckler Ave. It's all like they don't want one specific way every way. They provide multiple pitches of Cows being north to south, south to north. I think it's our great for the neighborhood, our three additional spots. Although Beckler Ave, they like to have kids out there. This is about parking and they park on their street. So I support the project and look at four of the three additional spots. Thank you. Thank you. No additional raise hands. Mr. Hampton, would you like to weigh in? Yeah, thank you Madam Chair. I remember some board, Jack Tanton, planning and zoning. Our recommendation was for denial. That was based on six basis and tandem spots like that. I know that the proponent has reduced it down to three as increased the amount of open space between the housing and parking areas. If the board does approve this, I would just ask if they put a provide zone at the end of the screening and buffering around the property. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I'm Mr. DeMico for his opinion on this one. If Mr. DeMico is here. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board of the COB-C state, I have reviewed the plans and it does work for an operational standpoint and we are inundated with complaints from South Boston about the lack of parking. And I think that to a small degree, this will help that situation. Based on the design, I have a problem with it and I give my up by support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that may I have a motion? A motion to approve with BPDA design review as to the screening form. In screening and buffering? Yes, correct. Okay, Madam Second. Decorate. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Our folks did with a 10 minute break or do you want to carry on? Okay, let's take a 10 minute break. Thank you. Recording stopped. You you you you you you you you Mr. Valencia President Miss Panato President Mr. Collins Here Mr. Aikens I'm here All right good to go Mr. Stonebridge I'm going into the one p.m First we have is case V-O-A 144 697-0 But the address being 207-209-E-Street This is also an auto-oony project is the applicant and for your representative president Yes this is Dave Fawes from Pierce Outland I'm representing the appellant Also with me is Donna Brown Executive Director South Boston Neighbor Development Corporation and I believe our architect Michelle Engagein is on as a panelist as well I think I guess I should jump in by the summer here This property is located at 207-209-E-Street in South Boston is formerly used as a convent for the Catholic Church and most recently has been used for biomeurigmentation called paraclyne and nonprofit for biotacademic enrichment services The appellant has entered into a contract to purchase the property and it has a affordable housing while preserving the existing building So the overall development plan is to 36 units 35 of which will be affordable to seniors there will be one manager unit in the building The current affordability on this is I believe 16 of the units to students persons earning up to 30% of the area median income and the remaining 19 went to seniors earning up to 50% of the area median income so there is a really high level of affordability here The project will involve the restoration of the existing building in particular the facade preservation of the front yard as you can see in this picture there's a pretty large front yard area which is rare in this neighborhood and then there's going to be an addition onto the rear of the building as you can see here So we're looking for relief from various requirements we've obtained a affordable housing so acceleration certificate from the city So I mentioned that while the project is completed the project will be completed and the project will be completed in the city so I mentioned that while the project is cited for off-street parking and loading violation there's a affordable housing that's one that will not apply and the other violations in particular are related to the new addition So I'll start with a little bit about the program My name is Donna Brown I'm the executive director of South Boston Neighborhood Development Corporation and this site is a rare opportunity in South Boston for us to acquire a privately owned property and convertible to a property and we have a $1,000,000 property and we have a $1,000,000 property narrative that will be completed therefore廈要 profitably owned property and converted to 100% affordable senior housing which is a growing need not only in our neighborhood but across the city So the Gor economical foundation has agreed to sell us this site with a low market price of millionraham less than the apprised value of the site the use of the site as a combat. We're proposing 35 units. We currently manage some other affordable senior housing developments. And this number of units is really key for us to be able to provide the services that seniors need on site. We're proposing an addition at the rear of the site since the condition of the sales that we've preserved the front open space in order to provide two elevators, which is necessary for senior housing and to provide sufficient number of units. So we've been working with the community. We've submitted over 100 letters of support on this project. This is again, our opportunity for us to create some very, very needed affordable senior housing. Michelle, a community can walk you through the designs. She's our architect from Icon's architecture. Thank you, Stella. So the, as you can see here on the site plan, we're really maintaining that green board board, which is such a gem in the neighborhood. Working with some new pathways to make sure that it's fully accessible for the senior population. And we've got a new entrance to the building that's in the addition at the rear where, as Donna mentioned, there are two elevators as well as any co-compliance stair. So we're maintaining around the property. I don't only need the existing building and enhancing its facade. We're pairing it's beside, but also there's a lovely masonry fence that surrounds the portion of the site and has some raw dire as well as associated with that. So we're maintaining all of that and using existing entrance off of East Street as our access point, but then coming to plan south along the edge of the building. Towards the addition of the rear. Next slide. Just a little bit about the plans, the lower plan is showing that ground level where you're seeing. At the existing at the new wing lobby space, as well as an office that can provide. The property for service coordinator and property management trash, which of course is one of these things that has to be dealt with on site. And then the primary, the existing building is primarily units. All the way up with one exception on the second floor, sitting around. Second floor is quite special. It used to have a chapel in it and it's got a higher floor floor and taller windows. So we wanted to provide some community space there that might be more quiet and look over that green space. Otherwise the units just begin to stack as you go up the building. So the third and fourth floor really the same, just maintaining that unit stacking. And then on the top floor, one thing that we could see in the accident metric beginning that perhaps wasn't so obvious. These are really lovely salarian in the existing building that is a fifth actual fifth floor and was accessed with an elevator, which of course is not good compliant. We're maintaining that salarium and augmenting it in filling all the way past the width of the existing building to offer additional community space, as well as a laundry room. So folks can relax and connect while they're making way for the laundry. Next. I keep going. Next. So here's an excellent of what you'd see from the street. If you can see that addition is really a bit of a peekaboo. There's not a lot of a lot of it that's visible from the streets. You can just barely kind of catch that fifth floor salarium on the existing building. So the new addition is intended to equate with that height with that fifth floor. And it is building off. So we didn't want to compete with the masonry facade of the existing building. We really want that to shine on its own, but we are introducing Santa Racotta. So it kind of relates to that masonry approach and then in filling with flabbered and on the top floor of the salarium, there's beautiful copper work. So we're thinking about some sort of copper like element that really differentiates that fifth floor. And you can see here the rot iron fence as well as some of the post next. Here the front facade, your sense of the whole mass of the existing versus the new construction where we're building that salarium all the way across the width of the building. Next. And then the elevations as was mentioned, we're asking for relief primarily associated with the setbacks for the new addition. Is a type of squeeze to get it in there. And so on this facade is within three feet or just three feet of the property line, which is why there are no windows on the construction wing of this particular facade. Next. Here we're seeing the rear facade where there is a projection that hands mevers over the ground level so that there's ability to access the trash road and have a sidewalk against the existing masonry fence that we really want to maintain and want to undermine. Next. And then this is the Southwest elevation where you're seeing the elevation of the of the brand coming up to the new entrance to the building, which has a little glass canopy over it. And then the lobby space the ground level units of. Next. That's it. Any questions from the board. Okay. Here. Thank you. Good afternoon. The council are strongly supported this proposal. A federal housing is desperately lacking in Southwestern. The increasing pressure of the real estate market has led to the displacement of many low and moderate. Putting our seniors in a particularly vulnerable position. The property on the street provides a unique opportunity to project a beloved community building, formerly a convenient. Of the same Augustin parish, providing much needed senior housing for the neighborhood. The council has worked with Southwestern and DC and community events and any seen press by their dedication and hard work on behalf of our community. They have another strong organization and track record for the development management of affordable housing and is dedicated to serving the community through neighborhood development and community outreach. Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity for us to provide this testimony and ask that the work please help with these proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm a senior project manager at the BPDI. This project completed its article 80 review process including one BPDI sponsored public meeting and additional proponent hosted a budget meeting. I wanted to emphasize a planning review that went into the BPDI determination that this adaptive reuse of the existing buildings and appropriate redevelopment of the site. The key considerations of the BPDI staffed our review of the proposed project included the provision of several accessible entrances for the site for the residents of the building as well as preservation of the existing mature trees on site to the maximum extent possible. I also provide adequate maneuverability for the two proposed parking spaces on the side of the building. This project will provide much needed affordable senior housing yourself. The BPDI board found that the project to be consistent with the city's goals and has the full support of the agency and the board. This project also receives support for many members of the community elected officials as Anna White had said before. Thank you very much. Thanks. Yes. Go ahead. Leslie. My name is Leslie. Good afternoon. My name is Leslie. I'm resident of 12 back. I put my name in because we did not have an opportunity to speak on 599. 619. We're done with that. Okay. So you're looking to get testimony on this one. No, but I didn't get it. Okay. Let me get mine. I go ahead. Thank you. Thank you, Madam. I'm vice-president. Madam Chair, members of Lord Minor for us from present in the government. They're sitting in. It is with pleasure. We all on support of this project. Thank you. It's a great prayer for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Leslie. Go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Salud from the city council. Outrage, Michael Flaherty. We have a few submitted a letter along the council president at wing. We're in support here today. The councilor would like to state that the property of E-Street provides unique opportunity to protect the below community building. Formerly a common estate, obviously in Paris. But right much of the senior housing in the neighborhood, you've been out here, received a housing in self-blasting. Number of years now, the legible and residents from all over the world. Thank you. Louise, are you looking to get testimony for this proposal? Hello, Madam Chair. I'm going to give you a presentation in the back of the building that we eliminated parking. Completely the parking spots in the back. We will move out the sunlight to the north-facing district. And we will dramatically reduce the open space preparation within the buildings. And we'll back the privacy of the units that are facing our people one to five years. On the one hand, we are on the side of the way and after the building passing concept. We'll have serious impact in accessibility through the new community and through our existing community. To all of the people that I have parked in this spot, I want to remain. The other people building is going to literally turn to one way, to start one way straight. Yes, for starting a service in an active interview. There is no manner of ready. Or be closer to walking out there. That they will have to park out to the street all the way. And I think that especially in 3D color, we are talking about a lot of rights to be from some branches. And especially fire fire, we're still looking for access to really deep to a fire. Any emergency, no longer need any enforcement fire building. And in the part of the buildings that are on the streets of the other side. The parking lot where the active system is being found in the existing open space in any data wall. Thank you. I have no additional questions. I hope that can't like to address that before we proceed. That last comment. Yes, I think we were trying to balance the need for enough units to make an affordable senior housing project. So, we're going to go to the front of the building with the requirements of the seller to preserve the open space in the front of the building which benefits the entire neighborhood. The building that we're proposing is really not any closer to the property line than Mr. Alonzo's building at 201 E Street. And so, we've tried to address their concerns, but the project would not be feasible if we didn't do an addition at the rear to accommodate the elevators. We've also moved the entrance to the side so that there is elevator access and handicap access without having to make a major alteration to the front of the side of the building which is also a requirement of the seller to preserve the front of the side. So, and the rear part of the building where the salarium is now is where the building is five stories. So, any elevator would need to go to the five stories. It needs to be at the back of the building. And that's why we designed the building. Thank you, Ms. Brown. Any other questions from the board? Here in Nunmay, how do I motion? Man, here. I would like to make a motion to approve the project. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Coutons. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case VIA 1 2 9 7 6 2 4 with the address of 11. The Marshall Street is the applicant and where they represent the president. I will. Yes. That's me. I'm a neighbor. I'm not representing the property. Okay. Sorry. Can the first applicant, if you want, can raise your hand? It's not okay. It's like a party. Yes. This is hardly shattering. Are you the applicant? I am the owner of the house. 11. I'm the applicant. Yes. Okay. I'm joined here with my engineering team and I will ask him Mr. Masout. Is he with me and he will be explaining the drawing and our plans? Good luck, Masout. You are new, Dad. We cannot hear you, Masout. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. But I got that. So the house is a single family house with a basement and two stories, the existing house. So we are, I think, a standard story and the deck above and the roof. And we are also extending the deck and the back of the building, almost four feet. And the room left side of the building. So the next thing we are going to do is take two stories. Three stories take the extended and the left side and the opposite. If you check the first page, I'm just going to scroll down. If you go back to the first page, we have the Silverer plan, which exactly shows what is the height. Yes, on the right side, you see what is on the gray. You can see the building and the building above the gray line. The proposed addition with the deck and the left side, which is depicted in the picture, shows the extension of the deck and the left side. The proposed building, so it's going to stay a single family house and we are not covered in two family or two family. So can you confirm? So what are each floor right now and what is proposed for the third floor? This is the future goal of the school of the game. So this is the existing cloud plan and the first page is proposed cloud plan. Yes, this is proposed cloud plan. So the existing building is a basement to a story building and the deck and the back. Our proposed building will be two story building with the deck under roof and three story deck and the back. With four feet extension of the deck and the rear left side of the building. The question was, what's on each floor at the moment? Currently, if you scroll down, I think there is a floor by a... Yes, there are four cars in there. We have the living area and kitchen and each floor and the first floor and the second floor is a bedroom and living area. One of the third floor is going to be exactly like the second floor, one bedroom and one bathroom. And the basement will remain the same. And you currently have decks that you want to enclose and enlarge by four feet? Yes, there's currently a single deck in the back. What we want to do is we want to put kind of enclosed decks so that it can be almost like a three-season room rather than just the deck. Okay, are there questions from the board? Can you go through the violations? The variants you were requesting? I'm sorry. Can you go through the variances, the violations and the variances you're requesting? Maso, can you explain the variances? Yes, the zoning, whether the denial of whether that's received from the zoning board of appeals. It's calling for Article 62 roof structure restrictions for Article 62 Section 25 was that? I wanted to understand what's in the existing condition and what are you proposing? What are you proposing? Are the violations or the side yards existing conditions except for the addition to help us understand the FAR violation? High-to-quilations, side yards, insufficient. But then what are the numbers? We want to understand what's code and how are you violating? Is it existing conditions or what are you adding that's creating the violation? On that side yard, is that side yard existing right now? Yes, the side yard is listed. I'll let the rear yard be changing the setback and the rear. No. You may as exactly the same. So what's, because you're adding, you're taking four feet extra for your side yard. So where is that coming from? What violation does that cause or expand? You know me, I think it's a bit too bad, David? I really, really, really, really, really, really, really good. It looks like, yeah. It just looks like that deck is getting setback. I don't know what that means, because they're saying they're adding four feet. So they're replacing the deck, they're facing, they're facing the deck. Yeah, there's an addition on me that is going to change the rear setback, MSX. Okay, because there are letters in opposition do things like sunlight and the setback issue. So I think we want to understand that. Yeah, those two setbacks are changing. Okay, I think we want to understand it from the proponent. Can you speak to that? Is that from a suit? Pardon me? It's from the question there. I think we're from the letters, but there are letters who commented about sunlight and setback and so have concerns about that. So I just want you to address that. So I don't think should be any block and lines if you thought this proposed building, like extending the deck four feet and like you mentioned, the deck four feet in the back. So, which members are they complaining or we set life on work side? Because the backside of the building is a park. There's no other homes or houses and residents in the back part of the house. So the front side of the house is on Laudelstie and across from us are homes. What was the university side? Well, the side is already the side is of the side. A neighbor to us is already got the sex flow. So we're not doing anything that it's not. In fact, there are many homes in Laudelstie that are on the same height as what we are proposing. I'm looking at Google Maps. It looks like there's maybe one or two properties that are immediately opposite you. Other than that, right near you are two stories, I think. The one to the one to the if you're coming out of my house, the one to the right is the third floor. The first house is third floor as well. Yeah, and then the first house is also third floor as well. Other questions from the board? Let's have public testimony. Madam Chia, members of the board, Shambreen, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And the button's meeting was held for Laudelstie on May 26, 2022. Since that meeting, this office has received four letters in opposition, which we've passed along to the board and none in support. With that, we defer our judgment to the board. I'm Rose Allen. Are you looking to give testimony here? Related to the room. Hi. Oh, sorry. Collefton, you're now in chair. Members of the board, my name is only in Duncan with Council, Collefton's office. Our office has received several inquiries and letters from neighbors, including director, but it's great concern over the high density and lack of concern for neighbors' privacy and quality of life in this small neighborhood. Councilor Claude, we'd like to go on record and strom our position to this project. Thank you. Thank you, Rose. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Oh, hi. Yes, my name is Rose Allen Locke. I live directly across from 11 Ludlow. I'm at the Red Ludlow Street. I'm a director, but I was at the community meeting that took place one year ago. And with four other others and all of us opposed this proposal. And since then, the owners have not reached out and engaged in any community engagement with us at all to speak with us about our concerns. I am directly impacted by the proposed nine foot, third story edition and roof deck that they plan on putting at the front of their property. It's going to tower over my property, which is a two story directly across the street. I'd also like to point out that Ludlow Street is a very narrow street. The street is actually only about six feet wide, six feet. It's just large enough for one vehicle to drive down. So this third story edition is going to tower over my property. It's going to block my view. It's going to block my right. And it's going to block the air. I'd also like to point out that the owners of this property have never ever lived in the property and have given absolutely no justification for a variance. And it's a grossly inappropriate edition. And I also think with the plans for the back, the third, the three editions of the bag, I think they've labeled them as enclosed decks. So they're actually three additional rooms that they're building on. And the plans do not include any square footage. We were not able to calculate the fire violations. I think they've labeled them as decks. So they could avoid putting that square footage in as living area. Thank you. Thank you. Are you going to get tested on here? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you. I'm going to go to the zoning lord for happiness meeting. The mayor's office as well and the BPD. I would like to speak as a direct wall sharing neighbor to all of the wall. I have a little bit of that off well. Blood home. And a few concerns I have one being the wall sharing component of this project with the third floor and the three. The roof deck on top. The world of this size of a project to me during the construction process and aftermath of the completion. If hopefully it doesn't get approved. I don't want it. I just I fear what a house from the late 1800s and a foundation of that statue from that time period is able to hold. I don't I also believe the privacy. It was brought up in the sunlight shade. Point now when I sit on the back porch with myself and the family excuse me in my backyard. You know we enjoy the sunlight. Through the park and then as it sets it sits right perfectly in my backyard where we can enjoy a late dinner or. I'm just hanging out and if there's four to six feet of extra space. I'm going to lose that and everyone you know it's precious time and it's precious light and all of it that I feel is going to make it harder. Okay. Me and my. Anyway. So. Are there any other reasons. No, not the one. Is that is Brenna speaking on this? I see a raise hand. Yeah, she just raised her hand. Are you looking to give testimony? I yes, I would just like to piggyback on what Frank and Rosalind were saying. The magnitude of the size of this home that they are looking to build with the three enclosed. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. The four. And what Frank was saying. You know the weight that this is going to bear on the walls of our current home, which was built in 1890 as well as all the obstruction of light and air flow that this is going to cause. I'm overall not not in agreement with the building of these new structures. I'd rather see the house exist as this. Thank you. Any other reasons, Jessica? Body is this is the applicant, right? That's on. Yes, that's OK. OK. So outside. OK. Well, I guess that's OK. Well, ask him for that. If you want to respond to that, you know, to clarify because it does sound like it's unclear whether these are decks or additional space or what you're planning and so if you could elaborate and as to that, you can. So there are no additional rooms that is being built. As I said, the enclosed back area is designed so that it will be used as a three-season rooms if you will or additional space to the living room because it's a very tiny house. And currently we have a deck that opens up to the deck. We just want to enclose that deck. So we're not building another room. Number one. The two is that Jason building right next to us is already third floor. So the foundation again, we have a structural engineering drawings and all the necessary technical documents that we've gone through extensive amount of engineering calculations and whatnot. And you know, it's being built based on what the structure and engineers have told us that how needs to be constructed and again, all the plans are already submitted to you. So I'm not really, I don't think that that should be an issue. And lastly, as I said, there are already homes that are three-story tall in that same exact street. And I think I don't see how that's going to stop the air from flowing into a lot of street or stop the sound to shine on a lot of speed as it has always done. Thank you, sir. Are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have a motion? I think the proponent has spent some more time working with their neighbors and the butters. So I make a motion to deny without prejudice. Dr. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Sorry, Mr. Mute. Yes. Yes. Okay. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Moving on to the next case. We have case B.O.A. 145. 2465. With the address being 125 Addison Street. It's the applicant and or their representative president. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Richard Blanz. I'm a attorney for the applicant that this is address of 245 Summarshreet East Austin. Good afternoon. I'm Mr. Mr. Mute. I'm Mr. Mute. Madam Chair, we are back before the board actually on this project. To request now one variance only and that is for residential use, which is not committed in an economic development area known as an ADA sub district. Just briefly granting this one variance will actually accomplish three things for this project. First, you would allow for a new, Again, manage 2 of these just for help. That is not sitting with the Ist. 4. Make sure!2, 3, 2 5, 6, 4, 4, 4, 3 in litigation, the Superior Court, from a prior case involved in the site. And the last and probably most importantly, this project that it approved would voluntarily commit two of these nine units as affordable hall ownership opportunities out of the IDP. I think it's important to stress for the board as they consider this proposal, there is no IDP requirement for this project at nine units because it does follow the 10-minute threshold. But more importantly, the developer has agreed to commit two of those units for the IDP, which represents 22% of this project. By way of brief background, this is a 5,000-square-foot-lot located, as I mentioned, in the McClellan Highway, economic development area. Members of the board may be aware that the EDA district is one of the most flexible zoning districts in East Boston for when it comes to high density and site back. Despite predominant residential use in this neighborhood, including a very large-scale multi-family residential building located directly across the street, ironically, residential use is actually forbidden in the EDA, which is just sort of an anomaly under the Boston zoning code, especially Article 53. As residential uses were not permitted in this site, the proponent for this project initially filed for, and as of right project in 2019, and at that time, executive suites were permitted, as a matter of right, there was no zoning relief. Necessary for that. In that building that was proposed in a permanent respire, was substantially the same size in bulk, as well as set back as the concrete building was being proposed today. But during the dependency that appeal that chair, the Boston zoning commission had made an amendments to the Boston zoning code with respect to executive suites in the city of Boston. Following a policy, and certainly a concern to the city, that executive suites created short-term, transient housing, and certainly took away from residential opportunities. Executive suites were made a conditional use. And therefore, while our current was pending, we were forced to then appear before the zoning board, at which time both neighbors opposed our project for executive suites as well as the BPDA. The prior board, after hearing the case, denied our request for executive suites. Even though it was technically a lot of use in the district in favor of a more appropriate use of the site, which they consider to be residential, that matter was that appeal that is presently pending before the superior court with ongoing litigation regarding that zone. So with respect to the card proposed, luckily, to jump down to slide nine, what we're proposing is essentially a building that is dimensionally compliant with the EDA south district requirements. The only difference is now the use. So rather than having an executive suites short-term rental building, we're proposing a building that offers home ownership. And as I said, ironically, while the use in such as hotel or a motel or dormitory are actually permitted in the EDA residential, it is not, and as you look at the bad attitude street, all you really see is residential uses, although there are some commercial uses as well. As this board is aware, both Mayor Wu and the Boston City Council are taking steps to increase the EDP requirement for project setting housing, including increase the minimum requirements of 13% up to 20% and lower the threshold from 10 to 7 units where EDP is triggered. Once again, this project is already below the EDP requirements, but recognizing the importance of creating before closing opportunities by client is voluntarily contributing to units. And that again is 22% of this project would be set aside for EDP. And again, as I said, that change is not even, has not even been put into place yet. We recognize the importance of contributing, especially with respect to this project, again, only requiring one variance. So if you can jump down to slide, and again, I appreciate the board giving an opportunity to express the background lines. But if you can jump down to slide 12, you can go down further one more slide. Let's go one more further to the garage. So if you can see here, the site is a 5,000 square foot site. Our building sits on the site for the 20 foot set back in the rear, which is compliant. We do show a total of seven parking spaces that are in a garage. Those seven parking spaces would be compliant with the requirements of the code, even though we're only required to have six parking. We do show sort of a tandem arrangement of those compact spaces located behind the first unit. You can also see unit one, which is a one bedroom, excessively unit located in the lower level. Next slide, please. As we go to the second level, we see it's 2, 3, 4, and 5. Just real quickly, I'm going to check there's three, until the three one bedrooms, two two bedrooms, and four three bedroom units, the importance being the three bedroom units certainly allowed for a much larger living space, certainly will accommodate a family size unit, those units are all over 1100 square feet. If you go to the next slide, you can see our third level. So, yeah, units 6789 are shown here on the level 3 plan. These are by-level units. They also have additional states on the fourth level, and if we can jump to that, next slide, please. And our fourth level shows the upper portions of those units, 6789. One of the things I will point out is that that fourth level actually has a reduced fall. So, even though we are forced stories, which is compliant, again, with the EDE requirements for under Article 53, we do scale in that upper level to allow for, not only some outdoor space for those units, but also reduce the fall for the building as well. Next slide, please. Just our roof plan in response to some of the conversations that we did here through both the abouters meeting, as well as our parents before the Harvard Community Research Association. We have agreed not to include roof decks. That was a specific request that was asked by one of the direct-to-butters, so there were no roof decks being proposed in connection with this project. Next slide, please. Just our section plan, and I think we can jump to our elevation plans next. Next slide, please. Next slide. So, our elevation shows both the front and the rear. As you can see, there are some front balconies off the lower units as well as an upper unit, and then the upper unit showing from the rear that sets an outdoor space as well. Again, no roof decks showing above the fourth level. Next slide, please. Showing our left elevation. We don't show any windows on the left side. We specifically incorporated, we see no window that's being on the public building itself. We do see some decks at the second, third, and fourth levels. Those are set back, as I mentioned, that ball and that fourth level is actually pulled back. Pretty well. Next slide, please. And that is our right-side elevation. Again, pulling back on the midsection of the building to allow for some outdoor space as well as decks in the fourth level. My way of relief, as I said earlier in the introduction, I'm going to share this requires one fairance. The building itself is designed to be dimensionally compliant at our R-503DDA. We also recognize certainly the significance and importance of Plenty Sposte. As my understanding, the BPDA has recommended approval with design review for this project. Certainly, and I'm certain we'll hear some comments about Plenty Sposte, with respect to this, bearing in mind that Plenty Sposte is intended also to be flexible, especially where a project is contemplating providing affordable housing. As I said, this project does not require any IDP units. We recognize the significance and importance of the need for IDP. And we certainly would ask the board to consider that and recognize the variance that we're requesting. We start from the height of the building, we're at 45 feet. 45 is the maximum allowed in the district. With respect to the minimum lot size, lot width, a lot front of the requirements. And the modal setbacks of front of the building is something that's typically addressed as part of BPDA design review. With respect to the barrier, as I mentioned, we do allow for 20 foot setbacks from the rear property line that is the minimum rear at setback that would be maintained as open space. We are also proposing incorporating street trees on the front of the building. And in connection with this, we've also agreed to make contributions to TREEC to allow for a treatment and within the harbor view neighborhood. I will pause there, Madam Chair, to address any comments or questions that the board may have. Thank you. I do have a quick question. So you mentioned the harbor view neighborhood association. Right. And talking about roof decks, et cetera. So they did submit comments about not having heard about this change until recently. And then not having voted on it because there was only one presentation. I don't know if you want to just read to them. Yeah, Madam Chair, I can address that. As a practitioner in Boston, who appears many times well before this board, but many of the civic organizations in the city, I recognize the importance of community process. I also recognize the importance of ensuring that we're not dragging the process on unnecessarily. In this case, we did have an abouters meeting and we did have an opportunity to present this to the harbor view neighborhood association. I have no inclination to believe they would vote to support this based upon the comments they made. However, I also have point out that the harbor view neighborhood association agenda has been a little bit busy lately. And my understanding is they did not have room with their June meeting. For a number of my other presentations, they were taking them up to July off and the earliest they could offer is audience. My understanding is based upon, even the mayor's executive order, is that a priority should be given to projects that do propose to pay affordable housing. A lot of the process that we deal with civic organizations although it is important, sometimes doesn't give us an opportunity to go for the actual vote. I fully anticipate that they would not vote to support this. I do understand that. I believe we do have a number of people who do support the project however. We understand, again, the importance of community process. So the harbor view did get a chance to review this. The certainly didn't get a chance to vote on it, but that's part of the parcel and issue with their own timing agenda and their own procedures on how they address and things more. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, are there other questions from the board? Yes, I'm Mr. Lanez. Well, there is the AMI for the two of the double units that you are proposing. It's a great question. I believe because these are homeownership, I believe the AMI is at 80%. I might understand speaking with PPDA, status the target AMI for ownership of a project that's satisfied. Thank you. What is the AMI's restriction for those units? How many years? As long as the IDQ requires, I believe it's a 30 and 20. So it's 50 years. OK, thank you. Yep. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Elizabeth Gorn. It's not even each of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We hosted two of our participating for this project, 1 November 1st, 2022, and March 20th of this year. At the first meeting, nine units, but one IDP unit and 10 parking spaces were proposed. At the second meeting, the applicant proposed nine units with two IDP and seven parking spaces. Massing was a bit reduced and the fourth floor on the side was pulled back. However, the authorities continue to be against the project as they have stated during both meetings at the building that is being proposed as two tall and does not fit in with their voting properties. They have also stated that nine units are two many units, one resident that joined the meeting, complemented the design choice for the facade, and asked the applicant to plan trees if possible. The applicant has presented the project through hard-review association once on May 1st. However, they have not returned for the second meeting for a vote. The association asked them further at the first so that the project people were back to for a vote. However, during the first meeting, residents were the police but the height of the building. My office has received more letters and opposition and a petition to oppose with 65 signatures. At this time, my office will lead to the for all judgments of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Minor, any other left official office? We have to move out into members of the board, any member of the council of the co-ordinates of office. Our office has received more letters of opposition. There was also a great deal of neighbor pushback at the Hoverby Neighborhood Association meeting on this project. Based on this, it not being a good fit for the neighborhood, council of co-ordinates would like to go on record in opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have 10 raised hands right now. How do you want me to? Start with five and go from there. Okay, minor going. Jacob and then in about the month of the year, members of the board, minor person, representative, carpenter, senior. I'd like to, at behalf of all our, is both the residents going to go and record the support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Alexa, could I ring the go? Hi there, my name is Alexa. And I live in East Boston at 126 Loxington Street. I'm in full support of this project. We have a housing crisis going on in our city, especially in regards to affordability. And this development is offering two affordable units when your requirement is there units. I wish more developments would increase the number of the four goals above the minimum requirements. Thank you. Thank you. Chris. Appreciate it. I've ruled with 215 Princeton Street. I would like to go on full support for this project. I feel the building size fits the allowed in the zoning that it is and the developers voluntarily offering two affordable units, which we desperately need in Boston right now. But I also feel like the building fits the allowed in the neighborhood with a large resident. I'll think directly across the street. Thank you. Yeah. Zoom user. Thank you. Are you using the Zoom user? Oh, hi. I'm Steven Massey, the Director of the better at 121 Anniston Street. And I fully support this project with no objections. Thank you. Richard. No. OK, Bob. Hello. Hello. Hi. Can you tell us any rest of your previous health support opposition? I am in opposition. I live at 135 Anniston Street. My name is Richard Scalmer-Mozza. I sent in a letter of opposition. I'm hoping that the board had a chance to read it. In 1993, the zoning commission placed at an increase to one of three economic development areas where residentialists have been. I believe that this was an oversight by the zoning commission because there were one and two family homes that were existing at the time of this decision. We have been working closely with the East Boston Plan, trying to be taken out of an ADA area. And we have been told that under their plan that the odd side where the residential is, we would be placed back into residential. There's no place for this on Anniston Street. Under the ADA guidelines, it's harmful to the existing residents that are there. Only 20 feet allowed in the rear of the property. 35 is allowed. Thank you. I want to make sure other speakers get to go. Thank you. Thank you. I'm on. All right. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Hi, my name is William Fisher. I live on 29 Anniston Street. And I have proved this proposal that the proposal does give. The affordable units as well as parking are very needed in East Boston. Thank you. Do you want me to keep going, Madam Chair? I'm going to use the name. I'll pay more hands. Eight more. OK. Let's put the difference. OK. Anthony and then Melissa. Send the request. I'll mute you. OK, Melissa. Go ahead. You're muted. Right. Sorry. Sorry. I asked my voice sounds a little off. I'm a good sick. I started out. My name is Melissa. I live in 1087 Saratoga Street, Boston. I wanted to say that I fully support this project. And I want to say very grateful that it's offering a affordable housing. Because I believe it's going to add a great value to the neighborhood. Thank you. Thanks. Anthony. Hi. Sorry. I was muted. I just want to say on behalf of my family, we own probably a 791 Saratoga Street around the corner. It's free entry for you away from the site. And I want to go on the record of support of this project, offering two affordable units when they're already quiet. That the developer should be applauded for his project. And I just want to go full support of this project. OK. Paul. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, go ahead. Hi, I'm Paul Paschentilly, resident that's 614 Bennington Street in full support of this project. This is as close to an as-of-right project as you see. And again, as mentioned, try it to me. Team up to two affordable units when it wasn't necessary. You just, I don't know if I even seen a red dot that before. So in full support. Thank you. How many keep going? I'm on the chair. Just take two more. Let's, I think we just do that here. OK. Sandra. Your hand is very good. Hi, this is Sandra's government family owns Mind Central Square. And I am in full support of this project. I think providing affordable housing is great for our community. Thank you. Thank you, and Ricky. Hello, Richard Crespo, 9597 Edison Street on the Direct Aborder. I want to go on record and support of this project. I think it fits in well with this neighborhood as well as I want to applaud the developer for going above and beyond here with affordable units. Thank you. OK. Are there any other questions from the board? I don't want to share if I can just add one item when you're ready. Yes. Quickly, yes. I understand that I don't know if this happens. I do understand the BPDA. In respect of the planning spots in the iPod issue, I think it's important the record that the BPDA recommendation also be included, which I believe was a group of the design. Mr. Hampton is no longer on, but I can certainly read there. Recommendation, which is approval was provided to the appliance be submitted to the agency for design review. Thank you. OK. Are there any other questions from the board? Without me, I have a motion. A motion to approve with BPDA design or field? May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. I'll show you a great day. Hmm. Yeah. Great. I think we're done. Are we done? Is there any more? No more. OK. That's it. OK. Thank you. That was a good day.