 you you you you or or and or morning. The City of Boston's only Board of Appeal Hearing for September 26 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted. That was a little too quick. Okay, unless administratively wrong direction. Okay. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. They chair, may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who look closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. So like yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Sembra reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. Okay. Mr. Sembra. We're knowing Madam Chair. Good morning. Miss Barbraza. Morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning. Miss Wewell. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Miss Pannauto. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Present. Good morning. I will turn it over to Mr. Sembra. Thank you, Madam Chair. I will begin with the extension of the schedule for 9 o'clock in the AM. We have two companion cases. First being case BOA. One, two, two, eight, four, zero eight. The address of 69 read bill street. Along that we have training case BOA. One, two, two, eight, four, zero four. With the address of 71 read bill street. This is the address of the first request for one year extension until October 8th, 2024. Is the applicant and board representative present? Just either in the follow. Yes, I'm present. Yeah, I'm present. Would you go fully proceed to explain your request? Absolutely. Diagnosis colon cancer, and I was recovering from surgery over the last two years. That's the primary reason. And now that I'm fully healed, I just need a bit more time to get everything going. So. All right, thank you, understood. May I have a motion? Motion to extend to October 8, 2024. Thank you. We have a second. Thank you. Mr. Spearbridge. Yeah. Ms. Bedaraza. Yes. Ms. Vuelle. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure. Also, yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Next, we have case VOA 948370. The address of 768 to 772 Tremont Street. We'll leave your spot by this on January 17th of this year. How are we? This is the affincent request for a one-year extension. It's the applicant and the representative president. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moranci. I'm an attorney with the Business Address with 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members. My client is Dr. Hussam Alcatee who owns the building at this location. As well as the dental practice there. His application, which was approved, was to obtain illegal occupancy of the building from dental offices to apartments and a restaurant with takeouts to a dental office. The dental office's six apartments, a restaurant with takeouts. There would be a two-story vertical addition. As I said, my client was approved. This matter was told during the pandemic. But during the period of COVID, my client who is a dentist, maintenance practice here, was a bit overwhelmed with trying to maintain treating his patients and to keep his practice going. He contacted me a couple of weeks ago and inquired about this. I described to him that this would be discretionary matter for the board. But he did ask that the extension request be made in order that he now may focus on completing the project. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. We need a date September 26, 2024. Okay. That will be perfect. Thank you. Motion to extend to September 26, 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stammerch. Yes. Ms. Petra Varaza. Yes. Ms. Wiel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 103-5621 with the address of three Robinson Street. This is the African Second Request for one year extension until October 8, 2024. Is the applicant and or the representative president? Yes. Would you go ahead? Would you explain to the situation for the board? Yes. I had a death in the family and my father died of stroke. So we've been back and forth with medical issues. Finally, the Boston Water approved the plan. And we've ready to proceed with the work. Actually, the work is being done tomorrow. You know, the foot to bring the water into the building. So I can really be more time after the water is running to the building to, uh, you know, it's some touch up stuff. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. A motion to extend to October 8, 2024. No, second. I can't. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Barranza. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. An auto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 8, 74, 954. The address of 303 to 305 things on the street. This is the out. Second request for a one year extension until October 17, 2024. Is the out and can end whether you represent the president? Yes. The morning madam chair members of the board Mary K. Campbell with a lot from Draco and Tostano, the Northern Beacon Street. Um, you're requesting a one year extension on behalf of our client, uh, took a while to finalize financing for the project and to finish building drawings, but he is still intending to move forward with the project. Any questions from the board? Um, does he help to start construction? He is currently estimating within approximately nine months. Most to extent to October 17, 2024. Madam, the second. Second. Mr. Steinberg. Yes. It's better, Baraza. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Relancia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. The first is case B.O.A. 992 109 with the address being 24 Rand Street. A while without we have case B.O.A. 992 105 with the address being 28 Rand Street. The relief is fired on March 13th of this year. However, this is the outcome. Second request for one year extension. Is the outcome and will they represent any present? Yes. Yes. Would you point here a question? Yes, I can't the double 21 Rand Street. Well, we've lived in the area since the 70s. I grew up there. And my dad's 88 now. And his wife is 84 and I'm kind of well all taken care of him right now. We made it to COVID and then I've been looking for the prices and they went sky high. And we received some prices from the current practice. Was a third more. And then all of a sudden the bent the interest rates. So I'm looking for an extension to continue the process of building these homes for our family to live in without getting priced out of the area. We lived here like recognize that since the 70s we owned the land we're working the city. Please consider our extension. I sorry I didn't I thought it was two years the date I thought it was to October. And I missed it. I'm sorry for that. I'm probably going to sit down with the Dudley Street initiative or the city and see if there's any programs out there. To help us with this. I'm just a thank thank you sir. May I have a motion. I'm motion to extend to September 26 24. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Miss Peter Barranza. Yes. This will be well. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Here also votes yes motion carries good luck sir. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 935 935 935. The address is 775 V.F.W. Parkway. The relief expired on March 13th of this year. This is the applicant's second request for one year extension. Is the applicant and all their representatives on the front? Yes. Are we in Christine? Would you explain that for the extent? Yes. As my name is Gary Mattel. I'm here on behalf of the NASA brothers. This full brothers that have owned the gas station service repair facility at 705 V.F.W. Parkway for the last 30 years. In the COVID years 2019 they're going to approval for a one story bay that's approximately 16 by 32 to add on to their existing structure to put a mass inspection bay. Of course like a lot of the other applicants today. This is a this is a family that works the business. They have another business in denim. They have a lot of other things to do with the COVID issues, interest rates, all the above time. So they look in front of the extension and they are ready to put the addition on now. I happen to get my car repaired there and they know I do permanent stuff. So I'm here to help them. And I'm also one of the issues that's been getting subcontractors in us in architects and stuff. So I'm going to step in and help them to get this one story edition on the building. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Very nice. I'll make a motion to grant the extension to September 26th, 2024. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Parnato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have two more companion cases of first being case B.O.A. 60935A with the address of 628 partial street. Along with that we have case B.O.A. 609355 with the address being 10 partial street. This is the applicants. Third request for a one year extension until October 4th, 2024 is the applicant and the resident. That's good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCas. LeCas last 75 Arlington Street in Boston Attorney for the applicant. This project is a 54 unit new building on Washington Street and Parsons Street in Brighton and we are hopefully nearing completion of our BPDA design review process. There was a change in architects and most recently there was a retirement at BPDA of our design reviewer and a reassignment so we're just wrapping up that process and then we'll advance it to final permitting at ISD and get this project underway. It did suffer from a better challenge earlier on in the process which lasted two years in Superior Court and then once that concluded COVID but we have been diligently pursuing our final approvals with the BPDA and hope to be able to start as soon as possible. Thank you Mr. LeCas. Any questions from the board? When do you hope to start construction? I would say that if we can complete the design review process the first or second quarter of 2024. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to grant extension on October 4, 2024. May I have a second? Yes. That's right. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. This is better Braza. Yes. This is we well. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Finally we have the last two playthroughs which are companion cases. The first being case BOA 754-380 with the address of 55-57. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. We have the number of cases. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of board. My name is Attorney Justin Burns of Virginia and Northern Business Address, 10 Forbes Road, Braintree Mass. I'm here on behalf of Park Street School, requesting a one-year extension to the written decisions. These approvals were initially entered into ISD on October 11, 2019. Shortly thereafter, the applicant was sued by a nut butter, which is the reason for the prior extensions. The school is happy to report that the lawsuit has recently settled, but they now need time to finalize construction documents with ISD as they've been unable to move forward with the process during litigation. And they also need time to complete a capital fundraising campaign. As a result, we are respectfully requesting a one-year extension so that the school can bring these long-to-lake projects to fruition. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Burns. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have motion? I'll make a motion to grant the extension to October 11, 2024. Man, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Next, we'll move on to the final offer to the case of 930. The case, this is case B-O-A135-1847 with the address of 2 Longberg Street. Is the house can handle the representative of the front? Yes, ma'am. Please proceed, Ms. Brad. The plans of the kayak Brad, I am the architect for the project. The reason why we're here is because you made several changes to the approved plans by the board. Those changes remain for several reasons. One, we're doing the design review with Boston Planning and Development Agency. They suggest the changes to the front of the building. That is access, not from one back but also they would like access from Elville to make changes. So, the other changes, or two of the changes, one, that originally the building had. The main one was on the first floor, which we did not submit on the original application. The BPD, the prior request of E-foot, those two baby back in which we did. He also suggested that we thought we're really good changes to the 34. That is the 34 in the nature changes to substantial changes to the mensage room. There is wealth, which we thought includes the design substantially. There is a structural on the back, on the back of the building. We reduce the higher that, which is by improvement. The only request that debts on the upper floor, so we added new debts to debt. Those debts are accessible only by the third floor apartment owners, starting residents. So, that completes, we believe, substantial changes to the plans. And summary, those changes do not add any additional violations to which we will finish their group. Questions from the board? Madam Chair, I would like to hear BPD's recommendation for the project. Thank you Madam Chair, Madam Board Chief. I don't make recommendations on board final libraries, but a couple of the changes were done at the request of the BPD, or the design department. Right. The only feedback I needed was I understand that the main building entrance was recommended to be on from LM Street. There is now kind of a larger projection to the front yard, and I just wanted to understand whether those recommendations were going beyond on to the front yard. So, the applicant just mentioned that there's no further violations. It's Mr. Pratt stating that I don't think ISD would allow this to come before the board if there were additional violations. It would have to have a new hearing. Okay. No further questions. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, is there no further violations with this request? I'm going to put a motion forward for approval. May I have a second? Would we be able to design review? Okay. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Who else? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. There are also votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, the 930 we have two G-card and building code cases, which are companion cases. First is case B-O-A, 151, 8865, with the address of 3-9 Marlboro Street. Along with that, we have case B-O-A, 151, 8866. Yes. And the 8866. Yes. So, we have 9 Marlboro Street. Or the outcome. And the representative. Who's fine? I am. Yes. Please proceed. Hi. My name is Bob Paladino. I am the architect working on this project at 389 Marlboro Street. And I think we're before you for a couple of items. One is for the G-card. And I think you have letters from the Boston Water and sewer and no harm. Letter from the civil engineer. And the other. And I don't know how you want to do this if you want to do this one at a time. Or both. Describe. Would you like me to describe both items? Yes. You can proceed with both. And the other one was that there's a roof deck. There's a proposing a roof deck. And it would be originally proposed a hatch. A roof hatch. And that's the one that we're going to do. And the other one that we're going to do is to. To gain access to the deck. It was denied by the building department. As a violation of the building code. So now we are proposing a head house. In its place. So that's something that needs your approval. Questions from the board. Okay. Hearing none. Is there. Well, this Mr. Seminelli on just to confirm the G. Cobb. Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, members of the board. Christian Seminelli Boston Groundwater Trust. And we have both letters from the applicant. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Here are no other questions. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval for G. Cobb and to provide building code relief. May I have a second? It's out there. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better for us. Yes. It is very well. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 930. We have next. We have case of the O.A. You can ask about Mr. Stembridge about the furrows or the draws. Thank you for the remount of the book. At this time going from 930 to 930 hearings. Do we have any request for any deferrals or the draws for this time? Yes. What's that move on to case B.O.A. 15143. Zero with the address being 21 holds in street. It's the applicant and whatever represent the front. Who is one? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Jeff Drago with Drago into scout with business address of 11 Beacon Street. Here on behalf of my client, let Wesley Lone. And I also have Chris Drew, who is the architect on the proposal. What you're looking at in this photo, this rendering is a rendering of the proposed project. And what we're proposing under the new plan is to change the occupancy from an existing three unit building to five unit condominium building. So, renovate the existing dwelling and to erect three story additions for a total of five units with nine rare parking spaces that would be accessed through an existing driveway. Just by you, if you go to the next slide, please, Justin. Just so folks can say so that the group can see when we started this process, we were at a much different project as we work through the community. We started at nine units and we were proposing to raise the building. Three things that we heard from the neighborhood was there was too many units that they wanted to preserve and keep the building and that we needed to maintain parking on the site. And if you look at the building directly to the left of us that is a condominium building, a four to six unit building directly next to us, even though this district is a three F four thousand. Our lot is 10,600 at 19 square feet and there are multiple multifamily residential uses right in this immediate area. And as we go to the next slide, please. And this just gives you an aerial view so you can see where the yellow arrow is is the existing structure on the lot condo building to the left of us, multi family residential to down from that. And you can see some of the new construction as you go around the corner on the church, a few down from us on the other corner. We went through the community process. We were actually able to eliminate all of the dimensional violations. We eliminated parking, we, sorry, we eliminated additional lot area, open space and FAR. The only violation that we have existing is for the MFR use that we're seeking relief for. If you go to the next slide, please. And these are just some rendering. So we Chris worked to keep this building intact, renovate and keep it to fit within the context of the existing structures around the area, but also make this a condo building and add some additional housing as well. We also put a landscape plan together for all of the front yard and the rear yard as well. If we could go to the next slide, please. And that's looking at the structure from another angle on the right side. All of these units are three bedroom family sized units. Unit one is 1,030 square feet. Unit two is 1156 square feet. Unit three is 1267. Unit four is 1304. And then unit five is 2171 square feet. So all three bedroom two bath family sized units. Next slide, please. And this is just we're getting into the site plan. So you can just see the size of the lot. If we go to the next slide, please. And that's our site plans that it does show the parking in the rear. Most of the spaces are six of them are full size spaces and three are compact off to the side. We were actually also able to eliminate the open space violation as we reduced unit count and size of the building as well. With that, and we worked with the ACA and the BAA for the design that we see today as well. I can pause to answer any questions of the board now. Thank you, Mr. Bringo. Questions from the board. Madam Chair, I would like to hear BTD's recommendation and also BPDAs. Mr. Bringo with us. Okay, we'll have Mr. Hampton. Are you with us? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. We recommend recommended to Nile with our prejudice. If you read our recommendation, it was there was some concern about the usable open space and tree canopies. The elimination of mature trees also the design in the back of the rear overhang was not something that we were in favor of. So that's why we recommended to Nile without prejudice. Madam Chair. Yes. First, Mr. Domingo is said that is requesting a requested removal of 174 by 18 foot space and 185 with a 20 foot space for adequate maneuverability. Secondly, how many units have warmed up for the units themselves and parking spaces? These are five units with nine parking spaces. We started out at nine units, worked with the community to rekeep the building as is, which added more green space. So we can go to the cycle. I can turn it over to Chris to talk a little bit about the back of the building as well. And so parking was the number two issue that we had heard from the community. We'd be happy to continue to work reducing that. But again, as we went through this process, it was it was parking and then the unit counts. So we had a lot of green space in the front. Chris, I know he's on the call. If you could touch it on the tree issue too. Can you comment on what is the minimum amount of parking space you feel that would still provide by building for the project? 5.7.5. So that's what was required under the code is 8.75. No, I understand that. But BPA's recommendation or issue with the project was that there was an extraordinary amount of parking and you were losing open space in which were trees. So, you know, because you're requesting for increased density, the question is what is what do you feel is the most efficient use of parking space? I think if, you know, if we had, you know, sex, which would be, you know, one per unit and then an additional spot, you know, for visitor parking. I think for us that would be fine. Obviously the community pushed us on parking as well, the code cut and the driveway are existing on sites. So we're not adding anything from Chris. Can you just talk about the tree canopy? I think it wasn't a existing tree in the front that was taken down a couple years right. Yes, I was developing the tree list on how to do whatever. I'm quite sure it's really starting this project. The intention is if you go back to the man's statement for a second, there is a large tree kind of energy to see it in the ring. That large tree kind of in the back right corner, I will remain. That kind of part of the way that we just found the parking was to deal with the tree industry as well. And we worked with the BAA, the ACA and the butter, almost a year and a half, two years on the project to get here. It would be happy to obviously redesign parking plants. We felt and given that we're keeping the building and we maintained, even though we have some green space in the back. We have a large green space area in the front, which I know is important folks as well. How much parking was originally in your project when it was a nine unit project? So we had 10 spaces at one point, but people felt that the parking count wasn't close to what would be needed for the area. And I assume it's resident parking so people can get permits and park on the street. Yes. Yeah, I mean, I feel it one for one seems appropriate for this project and the fact that there's resident parking so only residents can park on this street. If you reduce the parking, could you bring that building down to the ground? Would you make that design change? We get certain we look at it with DPP, but it's all about doing the real thing all the time. If we can then get work with the building, absolutely. If you can move back to the room, stay for a second. Keep going, you're going to go on. You're not trying to get away. Brad, yeah, I'm just, yeah, right there. So as you can see, like the right line itself is that's the second. The rear is like that. You can see the panel we wrote the second, the next line down, which kind of way. That's right. Okay. We didn't have new building. It's just a way that we can do something different with that to build. Get that down. So get the parking and get a little reveal. I think that's who would absolutely go. I think this, to me, the six spaces in the back should be adequate. And it sounds like the BBDAs recommending that that building not be cannoly-word. But I would leave that to the architects to determine and maneuverability. And the big reason is we're trying to make sure we can keep, we wanted to keep that building. I was very important to the community and then build on it to get some extra units. But we'd be happy to work with the Zoning Board and the VPA to reduce parking. Yeah. And so you and potentially increase the green space by holding that in as well, the paved area in. But if you can see, Mr. Nano, so we keep the trees along that corner and in the back. So that that's we really designed us to keep the trees, to keep the building, but also work with the community on a reasonable parking house. And so how many large trees will you have to remove for this plan to work? I believe there's only really used one that is kind of way to go. Well, let's start with the parking area, kind of in the middle. Everything else is mostly along with the upper right corner of the water cell. And obviously, we would be adding some more, and taking some of that stuff to make sure we design as well. Mr. Puyri, can you confirm that you mentioned its residential parking? Is there residential parking on both sides of the street or is it just one side? Don't know. Kristi, do you know the answer to that? No, I'm not sure. I know it's on one side. I'm not sure it's on the other. I know it's on the side in front of our building. I just don't think this... I don't see the signs, but yeah, I don't know. Now, check. Under the current iteration, how would the parking space this D designated or assigned to each unit? Are they sold with the D to each unit? Some of us, we all would be a first-come, basically, first-served. They would come with the unit, and then with those unit spaces have already been deeded. There would be folks that would be buying other units, probably. Obviously, they wouldn't get a space, but... or they would need a space. They wouldn't have a cop, but... Could one unit hypothetically purchase three spaces? I'm sorry. Could one unit hypothetically purchase three? That wouldn't be the goal. The goal would be to get one per, and then normally that's how we would handle it. And then, you know, whatever's left, you know, that when you've got some folks coming, they got how to space or something like that, or need a space. But they definitely would go with the units. They wouldn't be sold separately, or they'd be least out of everything. Are there any other questions from the board? I want to maybe take a pause and go through a public testimony, because it does look like there are residents in parking as always an issue, and I'd just like to hear from a butter is on that issue before we proceed. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Can we take public testimony, Jessica? Okay. Stop with Tony to make a good amount of... Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize if you want. No worries. Good morning, Madam Chairman. It's the board of Frank and Dozier here, also right and liaison for the Mayor's Office of the Everett Services. We'd like to defer to the judgment of the board in this case, but at the last butters, we've been in some of the concerns of the abouters' prison, centered around the density, the character of the building relating to the character of the neighborhood, as well as the parking. The All-Sensive Association did send in a letter earlier this morning. They are split down the middle between support and opposition among the membership. With that said, we will defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Tom? No, I'm not going to let the officials on. I just want to make sure you're there. Let the official offices. No, okay. Sorry. Go ahead, Tom. Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Madam Chairman. Members of the board, Tony Dizaduro, who are presenting the Austin Civic Association. First, I want to respect Mr. Dregel. I think we need to do a little fact-checking. According to the deed, I think Mr. Dregel undersized the site by about 5,000 square feet. That's according to the deed. In all due respect, this is the first time we have heard that this is now a condominium project. We always was presented that it was a rental project, and now I'm finding out just now that it's a condo project. And more than certain, Mr. Dregel, since the project right next door is a condo project, I believe that's a rental project. I don't believe that's a condominium project. So on those three points, the facts don't seem to be correct, but yes, Madam Chair, we did split right down the middle. It's important to say that we've got a number of votes from both sides, from residents who live in that neighborhood or who are direct to the neighborhood. Those who approve the proposal, like the fact that, as you know, there was a lot of discussion about tearing down the structure and giving the historical nature of the neighborhood, there was a lot of pushback on that, including from the Brighton Austin Historical Society. So they like the fact that the proponent decided to keep the building and add on to it, and they feel the design assimilates fairly well into the existing neighborhood. Those who oppose the project, site density and the trade-offs that the board was just talking about, the fact that you have a very large, we recorded initially 2200 square foot top unit, which was UNI-5, which in our neighborhood can spell a lot of trouble. And you've addressed the number of people actually oppose the project because of the generous parking ratio that was proposed. So therefore, the fact that we split dead even between years and no, we're going to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I answer the mic? Because my name is Proud. I understand, but can we go through the test that only goes in your life? Then you'll have an opportunity. Thank you. Ma'am. Is someone from Councillor Graydon's office on? Ma'am, go ahead. No, no, she's chumped off. I'll go to Anna Bella and try to get back to her. Anna Bella, go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Bella, go ahead. Right, and also in Proud. We'd like to go and record and support the project because they are keeping the house and the architecture is with the neighborhood. So we do respect that. We do like the fact that it is home ownership. We do want to support that. We do think that the parking has been called by a lot of the neighbors as important. And we do feel that parking is important when selling a condo as well. So we'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. I'm going to get back to the floor. And they just now want to go on here yourself. Good morning. Sorry about that. Good morning. This is Ma'am. I'm going to go and record and support this project. She appreciates the retention of the existing building. She also offices our understanding that this project does is a condo project. Mr. Grigor could confirm that. We'd appreciate that. She would also like she was concerned about as the board has discussed the. I think the issue of peeing over the majority of the backyard. So, it's really like the board to consider adding on a proposal. Or for a certain sort of say review for the reduction of parking. And a requirement for a re-evaloon. Thank you. Now. Hello. Yes. I live across the street. I'm across the street. A brother. There's five houses on this block. So far you've, there's five houses. Four of them are rental property owned by absentee landlords. So far you've given two of them. Various is to go multi-family. This would be the third, which means there won't be a matter of time before the fourth. And every other absentee landlord in neighborhood comes in to become multi-family. A couple of weeks ago the city issued its report. The reforming the Boston Zongi code. The page nine in its states to receive a very quote. To receive a variance, the property owner must meet the high bars set by the code. Proving special circumstances and practical difficulty and demonstrating substantial hardship. Close quotation mark. You spend all your time looking at the design and not one piece of evidence ever given satisfies the criteria for variance. Either the prior two or this property has no business being a variance. Just like everything else, it's going to be folded full of students and professionals. The parties start on Thursday night. They go to Saturday night. There's only parking on one side of the street and it's full. The report, there was issued just a couple weeks ago, confirms what was issued back in January by Suffolk University. When they studied the variance procedure and they said it, the page 447, cool. We also find, looking at the substance of these decisions, the little attention is given to the legal requirements for variance. Can you talk about your specific reasons for opposition, which clearly you're opposed? Well, my specific reason for opposition is the lack of any legal basis for this variance, just like the other two in your own reports. Is she by the city, is she by Suffolk University and by the. Thank you. Thank you. I'm out of charge. No additional. Okay, Mr. Gray, though, do you want to respond? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Respectfully to Mr. Tizadoro, the lot is 10,619 square feet from the larger lots in the area. We have a survey done. It's also work and simply look at assessing online and BPDA's zoning viewer, which I'll show that number. The building, it was mentioned that condos are not mentioned. We have always my client only develops condominiums. He's from Brighton. He lives right now. So this would be a condominium project. I apologize if I had mentioned the building to the left of us being condo. I thought it was. I know it's multifamily residential, six unit developments. I know it's not a big deal. But as we went through this process and met with the ACA at our last meeting, as well as our last butter meeting, there was not one negative comment that we heard. Folks were happy with the design. Folks were happy that we were keeping the building. Asked us to maintain the green space and the front trees in the back. And that is why we moved forward. So this project will be committed to be a condo project. It creates two additional units. And again, another thing that we hear consistently in all St. Brighton is to make sure that these aren't just studio or one bedrooms. But these are family sized units, which is exactly what we were proposing on these condos so that families could actually purchase these and live in them for period of time or for, you know, as their family grows. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with four provisels. One being that the project uses permeable materials for the driveway. Second is that the project has only five parking spaces. Third is to replant new trees for every mature tree loss. And fourth is to undergo BPD design review for site planning to maximize open space and to review the rear, massing with the building to work with maneuverability at the cars. Second. Yes. Ms. Bedavanza. Yes. Ms. Ruello. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. The Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam. Thank you. Next we have is bill away 148 9. 9609. The address being 821, highway. Is the applicant and all they represent present? Yes. Thank you. I will wait for the next meeting. Is the seat should be on. The seat should be on. Thank you. Am I on? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Cesar de Soeha. The architect on this project. I'm here on behalf of presenting Mr. Jojo's, the owner of this unit of home, comments highway. The objective of this project is to build a garage and rail addition. Due to the fact that right now we are bringing the funeral home, bring the bodies in or out to the driveway, which is usually an out expose. The objective is to build a garage so we can bring in or transport the bodies in close and a private manner, not exposed to the outside. We have not ridden a body and I believe we have majority support and we would like to have your support as well. What brings us to who are new is the variances on the zoning violations of the extension of none of our new use. Throw a racial excessive and mention regulations. And we would like to have your support on this variances so we can best serve the community. Thank you. Any questions from the board? On your site plan, I can't see the curb patch to access the garage. Is the curb cut existing? I know. I believe there will be a court one second. There will be a curb patch on that side on the driveway. Okay. So the curb cut would be just hauling towards street. Yes, ma'am. And it's three feet from the nearby property. Yes, actually, Mr. Locke's always that property as well. Okay. No further questions. Any other questions from the board? I know there's an open space issue here. Is there a building for that garage to be a little smaller than it is? It looks like a fairly large garage. Actually, it is the best serve to have at least two hour cars coming in because there is an access home with the garage. Actually, one car. If we see with you, it's twenty feet. But there is a door in the deck that is served for the living of flowers and things. That's why we needed that space for the ample, let's say the cars or that transports the coffins to be maneuvered freely. So that's why we have to have the deck that's inside and the garage as well. Yeah. Can we hear from the BPDA on this? Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Boyk, we agree with you, Ms. Panato, that the addition is just too big for us. Especially with that, I understand now that the owner of the funeral almost owns the property where there is a three-foot setback. But we feel that the addition is too big. Therefore, we recommended denial of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I am coming here. Is there a way of working with BPDA and shortening the garage, another two or three feet? The neighborhood we met with, and they heard these things like they were actually in support because we are bringing the bodies exposed to the weather. They would like to see a more private way of bringing in the bodies. So if we could work with BPDA and shortening the garage a little bit, we would be willing to do that so. Any other questions from the board? Your main entry is in common's highway, correct? Yes. What is the use of a rear that would be most impacted by the three-foot setback? Is it a single family or multi-family residential? Yes, there is actually two family residential that is the Roaks Oats. But the rest is actually our right residential area in the back. So putting a garage there with best service to the community, the business as well, so we don't continue to operate and expose the bodies on the driveway. And your driveway is only one story high? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Hey. May we have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Eric James from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I am going to go ahead and let you guys know right now that it is a good amount so I apologize for the advance but like you testimony. The butter's meeting, so the advocate for H-21 come and highway met with the butter's on November 16, 2022. The residents and attendance voiced a following concern so the residents would like a formal inspection done. If something happens to their property, they would like to have a baseline to say that they were affected due to the construction. The residents also have the voice concerns of the construction itself will cause the same adverse effects on the community at the Cody Village construction, which residents have stated that that construction invited wrote it into their home so they would like that to be cited as well. And some of the associations that were met, they were asked to meet with the Woodhaven Colbert Registrate Association. But at the time the Woodhaven Colbert Registrate Association was the only neighborhood association on that represented that Keshement area. Recently the comments highway neighborhood association has been formed about two months ago and that would be the no-go-d association that has the most difference. They met with the Greater Mattapan neighborhood council. The Greater Mattapan neighborhood council is recommending the following so they are requesting that a construction management plan be shared with the residents prior to the actual construction. They would like detailed follow-up on construction management plan. They would like the applicants to take pictures and videos of all the residents property to prior construction and send those videos to the mayor's office for storage. They would like formal inspection of the site prior demolition and construction. They would like to have routinely inspected and cleaned for road control. This is due to the close proximity of the homes on Hollingswood Street. They would also like it to be subject to a review by the B.T.D. for the parking space and the garage. In terms of the common time neighborhood association, the Hollingswood Street captains do not approve this project at this time. As you know, the project does border Hollingswood Street so they stated that they did not receive any communication or notification about this project even though they live on the street. They also would like the CNA to come inside with neighborhood association like the appetizer to come back to present to the common time neighborhood association which they were not instructed to do during their initial community process. The common time neighborhood association is a fairly new neighborhood association. However, again, they do cover this area of Madapanda as largely uncovered by the other neighborhood associations. So due to this moving forward, ONS will recommend the project within this catchment area be referred to to the CNA. So they would like this applicant to the fur to present to their board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And then George. We're going to get tested on again. Okay. Yeah. Can you say to me, Melagas? And if we tell us if you're in support of opposition to the person? Mr. Looks the applicant. Oh, okay. Sorry. Thank you. Can you say anything else? Well, can we listen to public testimony first? I have no additional way to say it. Okay. Anything you wish to respond to Mr. DeSovler before we proceed? I believe that this particular, just one floor addition, it actually helps. It assists the community with better serving the community by not exposing the bodies to the website. I actually do the meeting before we had Mr. James. And we talked to that neighborhood. It was actually in support of this. Okay. Well, we've heard otherwise. So, okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have a motion? I'll go for a motion to deny without prejudice. It sounds like there's some redesign that could happen to this project and certainly some more community process. May I have a second? Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Yes. Mr. Blaser. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Here are also votes. Yes. The motion carries. Next case. Next we have case. Be aware. 149. 143. 149. The address of two decks to the row is the applicant and all the representative president. I can slide you on. Can you raise your hand? Yes. Are you presenting? Mr. Centrel from Spencer Sullivan and vote the architect will present. I just made up a panelist. Can you unmute yourself? SBS. Thank you. Thank you. Are you present? Mr. Centrel. Mr. Centrel. Yes. Thank you. Are you ready to present? No. This is Jerry's arm waiting for my colleague to join us in the other room. Now I was able to unmute. Okay. I have a question. I have a question. Okay. This project is an addition and renovation of existing structure at two decks to row. You can see in the plot plan and an existing addition exists in the back that will be demolished. And where there is a red footprint is the proposed addition. Next slide. Here we have photographs of the the the locus of the project. The project essentially is in the backyard of two decks to row into the north so that the addition will not shade very much at all. Because it will be in the shade of the existing row house. I don't have control of this. I suppose we can move to the next to continue. Please continue. We've done energy analysis here. This is. We have a we are within the FRA at 1.98. We do need a variance with the building height of just a slight bit. From to we are currently at 36 feet. Six. Where the addition height. Can we have the next slide please? Okay. This shows the the existing conditions with the addition on the back. Perhaps we could go to the next side. Here you see the addition on the bottom left is the old addition to be demolished with it with this head house. Up from the basement. And up in the top center is an extra 3D accident on metric of the proposed addition. And on the bottom right is also a proposed the axon of the proposed addition. More again please move. That's not important. Here are demolition plans of the existing addition. In our proposed addition we will have a storage on minimum height basement that will be for storage only. Next slide please. Continue. Thank you. Continue. That shows the demolition continue please. Okay and these are our proposed this is these are our proposed plans for two next to row. This it shows the basement that storage only but that does have egress out. Next slide please. Here are the floors above. The floor on the below is the second floor and the first floor is above that. And it shows an expansion on renovation of the interior of the existing building for multi family. And the third floor there is a proposed deck. Above the addition so that the most further south part of the addition is a two-story building with the deck on on the third. And on the fourth floor underneath is a small deck to access the required egress egress strip stair. And next please. Thank you. Exterior elevations showing on the building high calculation and essentially. This is an in progress set. This set is dated a bit before us but we have developed some elevations on this since this process. Next slide please. This is the same circumstance that this shows the e required egress stair out of the building. In section. Can we show the next slide please. Is that the last one? Okay so you know this is this is the ISD set that was presented the. And we have a file back on. And are there any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can you please comment on the exterior material on the rear and then what is your proposed material? Okay. We are going to use brick full brick. And we will have a red iron or some kind of guard rail. The roof deck. We will also be having some co-arbling and some access with that are traditional to a New England and especially Charleston for the cornices and. And we are trying hard to be respectful to the neighboring community. Is there a reason why we are not seeing that many windows on the exterior? It's because this is an earlier set unfortunately. This set is not the most advanced. Okay thank you enough for the questions. Any other questions from the board? Hey Madam Jim. Members of the board. Sean bring with the mayor's office and it would services in a bus meeting for two decks of roll was held on August 17th. But it's had concerns about the height of the structure possibly extracting their views. Since that time this office has received zero letters in support and zero in opposition. We would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you Mr. Brings. I have no additional names. Is that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I would like to put for a motion of approval with two provisels that the plans be reviewed by the Department of Parks and Recreation. I would like to thank the board for the motion of approval. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. I agree. Next we have case B.O.A. 150718 with the address of 120 St Andrew Road. Is the applicant and all of their representatives on the present to explain? Lee's assistant Maria same asっちゃ for this graduated. I'll go before you upload with morninglaing michelle remembers off the board. Oh I'm here. My name isated at the right exact representing is done. and change multiplicity from one family and building a two-story addition and extension of this existing house at 127 Andrew Street. If you see this particular project here, the existing house is very small and out of the character with the rest of the neighborhood. Most of the houses in the neighborhood is made twice or three times larger than this one. So what we propose is to change occupancy from one family to two family and build a earlier addition to floor-rear addition. And so that's what we are proposing, which is more in the character with the rest of the neighborhood. Instead of one family becomes a two-family and we have Matt with the neighborhood Orient Heights neighborhood Council, which we believe majority supported it. And we have many residents of the neighborhood in the support of this project. Again, we met twice with Orient Heights neighborhood Council and with neighbors, we just about us, he assumed as well. And we would like to have your support in the various organization of the area and Boston iPod and dementia regulations. That's what we come before you and would like very much your support. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Question, do you have to remove any trace from the property in other people? No, wait, please. No, there is no trace I had this time. No, no, no, no. There is no trace at the property right there. Thank you. The design of the parking is odd. If we don't typically see two curb cuts and two driveways surrounding a house, can you speak to that? Yes, one on the left is already, it's a sheer driveway. One curb cut that spreads to both houses. Because on the other side, we just are requesting now one driveway for this house which is on the right. The other one that exists serves the above, the above, on the left. And we are like this one to serve to the above. They exist the proposed on the right. You can go. Any other questions? Yeah, it seems to me to make more sense to consolidate all the parking on one side as opposed to have an additional driveway serving one house. Mr. Penao, the existing view is very small and it's actually shared with the above is on the left. It wouldn't be very hard to put two cars on that side. Our three, that's, we will show one car, but actually is the driveway on the right that our is going to be serving both this proposed building. Yeah, but it's still family. Yeah, I mean, and typically we don't allow a curb cut just for two cars because you're taking, I assume you're taking street space public streets. Space is a way when you make that curb cut. I know the city didn't allow for one car, but usually they encouraged, I think the public works in college taken two cars off the street. And that's why we proposed the two cars on the right as per the regulation usually of public works. And then it's also the driveway is also would be on a zero lot line. It doesn't allow for the five foot distance between the driveway and the property line. It does, I believe, for the yes, that's why we are here for you. Because we have 17 seats. We have the ground, we have from the house to that, we have 17 seats. And then we have some more space to the right, the fact that. But if you see on the front, on the side, from the house to the property line, the southern food, corn sauce. Right, but not from the driveway. Can we hear from the BPD, on this? Mr. Henton. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jeff Henton, BPD. I wouldn't want to speak for BPD. I think I have been on this board enough to know that the city doesn't like two curb cuts on one piece of property, but I'll defer to BPD to confirm that. Our recommendation on this was to deny it without prejudice. They're creating these zoning violations with this addition. They're creating the three-story addition, rear yard right now. I mean, they almost cut it in half. So we think that the addition is too big, and especially with the new zoning that's coming forward from the Plannies Boston. We don't think that zoning really should be granted because they are creating these zoning violations at their own fruition. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge, Mr. Domingo, weighing on this one. You're on mute, sir. And for 120 St. Andy Road, in my opinion, I do not approve a new curb cut for this party. Come on, I'll see you following me. There are currently some curb cut in place, allowing to cut the part. Also, there's plenty of on-street parking on both sides of this one-way street. Those are Mr. Domingo's comments. Thank you. Not yet. Any other questions from the board? I guess the question, you know, I would throw it to the applicant, which is, are they open to using their existing curb cut and potentially modifying that side entry to allow for the use of the driveway for two cars, but not allow front yard parking? That's a question to me. Yes. Thank you. Yes, we are at this first floor. Mr. Board would rather not see the other part. We would. We just talked to it would be better for the neighborhood to have more of street parking. And that's a spur of the size of the property, if you see. Let me try to stay with the same volume of the other houses. If you see through the neighborhood, and to the left of the right or the other streets, most of the houses are actually at the size of the house with a smaller yard. And that's why we try to blend in with the rest of the neighborhood. This particular house right now, if you see, it does not blend in. And our objective is to stay with the same volume of the neighborhood. And actually, when we met with the rest, with the neighborhood, as we present, majority of the neighbors were in favor because we showed pictures of the existing neighborhood houses and this that we proposed, and they sadly think it's actually more in tune. Thank you. Thank you with me to so much. Let's take public testimony so we can hear directly from the butters. Good morning, Adam. Chair, members of the Board, Manor Navi Agoumanz with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted a butters meeting for this project back in May 2023. The applicant then met with the Oriental Neighborhood Council several times and the group voted to support the project with 33 members in favor, nine opposed, and three abstained. Unfortunately, due to personnel changes at the Office of Neighborhood Services, I do not have details on the butters meeting held or resident comments at this time or office with a different judgment to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Sebastian Farr from Councilor Follett's Office, and I thank you, Mr. Chair, for the coming, and I'll ask comments regarding the support for more than I've never heard of Council. The Council will let people in support of this project as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Sol, the City Council, last Michael Flare, Council of the Long Regents of Board. I have no way stands at the moment. Thank you. Any other questions from the Board? Hearing none may have a motion. But I see a something in the chat from a Liz Bagley who wants to speak on 120 St. Andrew, is it a butter? Okay, let's go. I'm sorry, I was raised. Thank you. I'll just about, I think I just sent it directly to the chat. My name's Liz Bagley. I directly, I can't say what, how great a neighborhood is. His renovation of the house next to me, what great, and 120 has been moving with no complaints that I know from the neighbors. I've seen the plans several times, a few of the neighborhood council, the several of our neighbors also came out in support of the renovation. Most importantly, I know just from while we're being our neighbor now, he wants to keep the integrity of the surrounding aesthetics. There's no safety issues. And the Silver, the Silver, is correct in saying what he's proposing. Or what he's putting in fits in much better than what is there now. So we look forward to seeing the renovations complete. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Bagley. All right, without any final questions from the board, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval with a proviso that the applicant works with and the existing curb cut. And that's it. Sorry. That's just average. And BPD design review, I... Are you that acceptable? I didn't put that forward, but... I think he's asking for it. If Jane, if you want me to put that forward, I found the massing fine. I found it, work was in the context. But I'll include a BPD design review. Mr. Collins, do you second that one? I do. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Thank you, Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Ms. Ruelo. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. How many years is it appropriate to take you? 15 minute break now or just the five or six you get us to 11? We can take a 15 minute break, Van Chair. Okay, let's take a 15 minute break. Morning, stopped. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. The Commons. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you very much. Hello. This is 26 Montrose Street. We are asking for a deferment as well. Hello. With that, with the case, be away. 1, 5, 1, 4, 9, 7, 6. With the address of 26 Montrose Street, would you explain to the board what? Yes, my name is Abraham Hildesson of The Owner of Bethocado Defar, who is also on the call with me as well. After speaking with Connor from the mayor's office, and also talking with our architect, we did the best for us. us to defer this to that November 14th date. For a couple of reasons, our current submission of the design plans doesn't show the dimensions of the parking, and I was a suggestion by Connor. There also is some additional information that we would like to present, but I was unaware that it needed to be submitted seven ways prior to this meeting, and I was informed of that yesterday by Stephanie. So with that, we respectfully ask to defer to the November 14th date. Mr. Ballast, is that welcome? Yeah, that's our command check. May I have a motion? Motion to defer this case until November 14th. Madam Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better Brazil? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. We are in no order. But for what's going on in the world, we'll move on to into the new lemonade on here. Next, the press will be case beowing 1501918 with the address of 40 to 42 follow street. The applicant can or represent the presence of life. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCasse, the 75th Barlington Street in Boston, attorney for the applicant and owner of this property, 42 foulers street in Dorchester. The application before you is a request to change the occupancy from two family, three family, and otherwise renovate this property. It has been taxed as a three family since at least 1985. And my search of the historical records at IST indicated that there are these two building permits one was issued in July of 1988, which identifies the property is not immediately dwelling. Another one in August of 1984, which identifies the property is a three family dwelling. That's the records of IST still respect to as a two family. So we're formally making the request to change it from two F to three F, which is consistent with this zoning sub district, which is a three F five thousand sub district. So the proposed use is three F is not only historical use, but consistent with the zoning and no relief is required on that item. The items or zoning relief include up street parking insufficient, since we're technically adding one unit. We would need to have a parking space for that. But the Google Street view of this street, you'll see that houses don't have driveways, and there's no opportunity to create parking for the confirmed third unit. Additional lot area is insufficient. It's an existing condition, and there's no change to the footprint or no other changes to the building, other than completely gut renovating it. And the last item is usable open space and sufficient. If you see on the site plan before you, where it says lot area two nine go to, that's actually part of the existing parcel. There's a little backyard area that jogs off where the existing dwelling is located, and that will remain open space as a current is, and each of the units have front porches and side porches. It's a sort of modified triple decker kind of looking building. My client acquired this through a foreclosure auction. The building is part of that, and is in need of lots of TLC and upgrading, which is what this proposal is aimed at doing. I think with that, I'll conclude my presentation. I have to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. O'Kam. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Ashley Goldmann, Office of Neighborhood Services, Office Board Meeting 442, Fala Street, August 3rd. I've got one that represents no concerns of the thing that opposition are supporting, since they were already confirming that there was already there. That would give us the board. Thank you. Thank you. More Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Iamidikan Lua, Office of City Council for the Bound of Well, and in regards to the project having received, I would like to thank the board for the support from the budding civic area, and no formal letters of opposition. The council would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional resistance. Thanks. Thank you. Without me, I have a motion. I wish it makes motion for a group. Second, thank you. Mr. Stemberer. Yes. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Also those, yes, motion carries. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B08, 1513689, with the address 135 William T. Marsy Board. The applicant and for their representative, President, through a slide. Yes, this is Jennifer Schultz. And I am permitting council on behalf of the owner and applicant, Beacon Capital. Can you hear me all right? Yes, we can. Please proceed. Please proceed. Please proceed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So we are here to ask for conditional use permits in order to allow for the Massachusetts BioTech Council to operate its biodiversity, which is going to begin at an approximately 3 to 4,000 square foot space within the Old Boston Glow Building at 135 Marsy Boulevard. It will be a life science workforce training center for high school holders of high school degrees or the equivalent GED in order to obtain stackable certificates in order to obtain a career in life sciences and work their way up and potentially with other operators and tenants in the large building. And so when this property first went through, it's initial redevelopment in 2018 and 2019. They received a series of variances and conditional use permits, but did not have tenants in place for the building. That was to support a cord shell renovation. And now that tenants are interested in particular spaces in the building, such as this biodiversity program, we are back to request additional zoning relief in order to be able to provide the additional zoning relief in order to support what we think is an important use in this area. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. And the board, my name is Ross Cochran, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The applicant has completed their community process. Our office was not required to host a meeting for this project. However, the local civic association voted in support. At this time, we'd like to refer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe, the applicant, City Council, famed because office would like to go and recommend support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my servants, the council, ask my authority to recommend support. Okay, Madam Chair, I have no resistance. Thank you. Okay, without may I have motion? Motion to approve. I have a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barraza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Very much. And Mr. Salas, I'm guessing, and we need another break? Yes, Madam Chair. Okay. We'll see you all back at 11.30. Recordings stopped. In the meantime, if anyone's in the attendee section right now, but they need to be elevated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm really glad to have work with DSMW. Want to ask for this. Okay. Do I need to know I'll call again. call again? Yeah, I'll do it just to be safe. Sounds good. Mr. Stembridge. President M. Prasad. President. Ms. We well. President. Mr. Valencia. President. Mr. Canado. President. Mr. Collins. President. Excellent. I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. Before we begin with the recommendations for 11 30 a.m. I will ask if there are any requests for the jaws or the furls from this time. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, Dr. Terry Richard Lins. I have two that I'll be deferring. Make a nice short day for everyone. Hopefully. Where? Where? What was that? The first one is anyone with long. I'll just vote. I understand. It's up towards the end. Yeah. Back. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. 1130s. I apologize. I understand. It's up towards the end. Yeah. Thank you. That would be case. Be away. 134. 1023. The address of 811 with long street. Would you please explain? For the record, again, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boyd, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street. East Boston, behalf of the Tisha. Madam Chair, we deferred last time. There was a notice correction issue that needed to be addressed, which has been corrected. However, we did receive the BPD recommendation on this. We noted that there were some additional items that they were requesting, which were relatively newer based upon our previous conversations with them. We think we can address those as well, and we'd like, for the opportunity to do so. We're hoping we could possibly get this on for October 31st as well, so I'll see if I'm already scheduled for that date. Mr. Salas? Madam Chair, yeah, we can squeeze in that one. I think we, yeah. Good, sorry. Okay, that's fine. No good deed goes on. I'm punished short today, long. May I have a motion? Motion to the floor with case until October 31st. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berberazo? Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. And the next one I have is 74 Forestry. I probably should have done that one first, knowing the timeline here, unless I'm able to squeeze that one last one of October 31st as well. With that, we'll be referring to case B-O-A-1459061 with the address of 74 Forestry. Go ahead and call. Thank you again for the record, Richard Lin's on behalf of the Senator 245, Senator Streetie Sposton. Again, very similar situation. This one relative to Plenty Sposton, some of the recommendations that are being put forth by the BPDA relative to the potential new zoning that will be adopted hopefully in the near future. We feel that we've made a number of changes, but there's a little bit more of the BPD is looking forward we believe, and we think we can address that. So, respectfully in request and for your comment on this one as well. Yes, ma'am, I try to think. Unfortunately, I think October 31st getting full now. I think we have to do November 14th now. I think that's a good question. Yeah, I'm not going to be available in November 14th, so I apologize for that one. I'll leave it to you, ma'am, chair. If you want to put it to October 13th, the net of 31st, I'm sorry, October 31st. I can't. Is there a later date? The next available date would be November 28th. Mr. Lins? I'll have to work. Thank you. All right. May I have a motion? Motion to defer this case to November 28th. Now second. Thank you, Mr. Stumberch. Yeah. Better browser? Yes. Ms. Monroe? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you very much. Mr. Stumberch, 229. There's 233 voting street. Okay. It's that would be case. Be aware. 148. 4717. The address of 229 to 233 voting street. Uh, thank you. Would you explain? You're welcome. Morning. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board Attorney Derek Small. I have a business dress up 51 Dops and Road. We're here seeking a deferral on this matter as we need to go back and meet with the Board and Geneva Main Street in October. Okay. My beer. Uh, I think you still have November 14th? No, November 14th, yes, Madam Chair. November 14th works for us. Okay. I have a motion. I'll make a motion to defer to November 14th. We have a second. Second. Second. Mr. Stumberch? Yes. It's better browser? Yes. Ms. Monroe? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair Oslo votes. Yes. Motion carries. See them. I picked the right day to take over as Chair at 1 o'clock. Uh, well, it's like we're going to have another break. Oh, really? I'm on. Okay. I have one, Mr. Stumberch. That's 43-45 Stanton Street. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's the second case on the 11th. And that would be case V-O-A, 14th. 3137. You had a dress of 43-45 Stanton Street. Yes. Could you explain for it? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law, 75 Arlington Street, in Boston. This project is a redevelopment of a former convent on part of a larger church property that has been closed for some time. Another developer is doing the church and other portions of the property. My client is doing just the convent, but the neighbor dissociation, redefining our community, our OC, and a group of Stanton Street neighbors has requested further engagement with us and the other developer. And we're continuing those efforts. So we requested deferral and the November 14 date of still available would be perfect. Yes, Madam Chair, that's still available. Okay, we have a motion. That would be a motion to defer this case to November 14th. Yeah, the second? Back in. Mr. Stumberch. Yeah. That is better. Prasad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Here are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you so much. Matt. Yes. You're the one? No, well, I will, I just don't just don't work the forward just for planning purposes. The one o'clock in purification is my matter. I had actually spoken to Mr. Salis about that. And we're going to be deferring. I know you need to call it a one o'clock, but just I know you're dealing with a six-member board issue, but we'll be deferring that as well because that may, that matter may resolve itself. Got it. Ms. Panato is so lucky you are stepping in at this time, huh? Nothing is you a bit panato, Ms. Chair, for us, but we'll be. I know. I'm feeling like feeling the right. All right. Well, that that leaves us with just a few 1130s plus our recommendations, Mr. Stembridge. I would like to. Is there another one? Yes. Good morning. My name is Clayton Weston. 75 Maywood Street. Okay. I would like to request the referral to November. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Can you read that into the record? That would be case BOA 1309386. But the address of 75 Maywood Street. Would you, would you speak to that, please? So I'm not sure if you were caught up with it about June. An issue had come up when we was in front of the board. And then since then, a new plan example has been put in place. And the communication has been a little challenging. So just trying to just work through a couple of things. But for the most part, we think we presented everything that we needed. But just want to re-assure that before we come back and further go. Okay. Happy year. Yes, we can do November 28 for this one, Manchain. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to refer this case to November 28. May I have a second? It comes. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This bedrozza. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. Yes. Motion carries. You're welcome. Okay. Anything else? All right. Mr. Stembridge. With that venture, we'll return to the recommendations for the sketchbook for 1130 AM. I will read them and choose new records, read the case and the action for them. And then we will vote all together on all of them. Runbook. We begin with case B O A 149 7572. It was approved with BPD design, design review. Next we have case B O A 146 6435 with the address of 889. Just to have them. That was approved. Okay. Then we have case B O A 149 1061 with the address of 10 East cotton street. That was approved. Next we have case B O A 146 8501 with the address of 55 Manannock street. That was approved with BPD design review. Next we have case B O A 148 3184. I apologize there. Okay. Take it a time. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Okay. B O A 146 8501 55 Manannock street. That was approved. A approved BPD design review. Okay. Case B O A 148 3184 with the address of 80 cotton street. Which was approved. Next we have case B O A 148 4588 with the address of 27 to 49 1 crop road. That was approved. Go on to case B O A 142 8568. The address of 84 100 river street. That was deferred to November 9th. Next we have case B O A 1502177 with the address of 32 Augustus Avenue. That was approved with BPD design review. Next we have case B O A 144 1910 with the address of 25 kneeling crescent. That was approved. Next we have case B O A 149 6409 with the address of 38 circle more street. That was approved with BPD design review. Next we have case B O A 149 2359 with the address of 25 Orioles street. That was approved with 10 tandem spaces for the project. Next we have case B O A 149 2091 with the address of 3 onward road. That was approved with BPD design review. Next we have case B O A 148 0464 with the address of 44 blamwood road. That was approved with no building code relief. Next we have case B O A 144 8246 with the address of 24 common street. That was deferred until November 14th. Next we have next in the last in this category we have case B O A 103 185 1 with the address of 35 rons. That case was approved. And that is all we have towards the recommendation. Thank you Mr. Stembridge may I have a motion? Yes Mr. Stembridge. Yes Mr. Raza. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries.こんにちは Mr. Chairman. chair of transfer to be the structure of 12- shall we move along through the topic. And now I will move to revince to warning too. Toronto chief Bialae. Please don't push to the dictate Arkansas County. and present to each one. Yes. What? Please proceed. Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. First off, my name is Edward Gata. I am the developer of record on this project. And I will be presenting with our architect Chris Johns of Thoughtcraft Architects. And this presentation was to outline all the benefits and details of the project where I am going to let Chris dive a little bit more into the details. But if we start at the top, we all know where 48- So technically the project and I am excited to present is that 48-54 Tori Street technically and address was created for this and our main goals for this project if we can go to the third slide on this presentation scroll up just a little bit. This project is going to be for a home ownership scheme which is going to consist of 14 market rate or 14 condominiums which are 12 market rate and two affordable units going along with BPD and Boston guidelines where we have six one bedrooms, four two bedrooms and four three bedrooms. So the goal for this project is to create and provide the best highest quality living scenarios with green and rejuvenation solar renewable aspects of construction and building intertwined. And we are targeting our passive house building standards as much as we possibly can with high performing windows doors, management of solar energy which we have already started to get performers and ski schematics for creating an air tight envelope balance ventilation which go along with some of the new building codes and looking into or 100% creating an all electric powered building. So the quality living will bring in some private outdoor space for every single unit which was not in there at the first iteration design of emphasis on natural light which is why we're focused on high performing windows and doors to maximize the size of those windows and doors. So bring in that natural light shared communal outdoor space which will be on the ground level accessible units which leads us into incorporating a elevator and high quality finishes appliances, private mail and one of my favorites is the bike storage for one bike storage for every unit that we create. And just the glimpse of community benefits would be essentially replacing a vastly under under utilized lot actually pair of lots so both of these 48 and 54 Tory street consists of 17 car parking base of which there are three buildings five days and one 10 and another and two in the one front. So we're going to have some of the data unusable and haven't been used for a number of years by the previous owners. So along with community benefits we've been designing this building essentially for eight to nine months since talks with the family previous owners and we've incorporated the neighborhood community from the get go. From the concept design two to three privately held meetings with the leaders of the community and then three full community meetings where I presented each iteration this is probably about the seventh iteration which you guys have probably reviewed already. So with that we're incorporating new trees on site with a full landscape design plan after gaining some variance relief and street and sidewalk improvements which also consist of removing a curb cut and moving our access to pretty close to the lot of line on the right hand side of the building but this gives back a public parking space for our access to the building. And addition yeah essentially addition of one on street parking removal the existing curb cut actually making it smaller as well. So if we can go down to the next slide please. This is just a location map where 40-50 it should be 54 Tory street my apologies but right next doorchester high school. You know with the beautiful park about 10-15 minute walk to most necessities or you know very easy. Very easy transportation to wherever you need to go along the washed street up into the city etc. If we can go down one more side and this outlines essentially what is existing on the property and these are broken into the two parcels with. The smaller garages on one parcel in the longer garage and right on the second parcel we are combining the two and we're removing demolishing what is there currently so the curb cut on the left will actually both curb cuts currently will be removed renovated renovating the sidewalk improving the sidewalk and moving the curb cut to where the location of the long garage. So we're trying to give back public spaces and you know if you've seen the curbs there now it would be very much needed so if we can go down another slide please. This is the site plan that we are going to propose so if you want to zoom in a little bit on this iteration after a number of BPD and about our meetings we've incorporated almost all feedback that we possibly could into the final iteration of this project where we've now had a single lane driveway into a side entrance for screen parking. So this is technically open air at grave parking with the mechanicals lobby bike storage and mail room up at the front with a staircase in the elevator and a secondary egress staircase midway down on the left on the right hand side of the building and the screen parking will have seven contact spaces and one hand cap. This is where our trash containment area will be which we've essentially taken over a parking space the square footed to have a parking space to keep it contained not outside and not an eye so for neighbors or create any pest issues down the line which opens up our communal space on the left hand side of the building open space. About 350 or 366 square feet added to the open space that we can provide for this for the community that's going to be living in the building and you know if they make friends with their neighbors great have a moment to this common space which will be finished and landscape accordingly. If we can go down another slide please in zoom in a little bit so these are the variances that we are requesting relief for which consists of the floor area ratio which is 1.66 i'm going to look at it on my screen. Currently for FAR the building height and stories and in feet which is actually after numerous studies with the block and on the street in the neighborhood we're actually not higher than any other building in the area we're just a line at 32 feet with a building about three doors down so we're not trying to overbear any of the things that we're doing. The front yard minimum depth is also based on a study that we've done with the block and the distance that most other homes on this street are at currently. 8 to about 7 to 10 feet is somewhat of what we're looking at but on this particular block we are overwhelmingly within that 8 feet and almost all the other single families and multi families on that street are at the 8 foot mark. The side yard minimum which is on the refusal letter was alleviated we removed that variance requirement by shortening our balconies on the left hand side of the building which is where the variance was coming into play so we've removed that from the sheet the rear yard minimum depth variance required was just to create enough parking for condominium units every. Condominium most likely we want a parking space but we're working with BPD a minimizing that as much as possible and this is where we're at especially with the parking spaces per unit at the point eight six which was a comment from BPD about reducing spaces increase in contact spaces. And in doing so that's that's where we are at now with 12 parking spaces for the 14 units and that's just to kind of glance at the variance that we are requesting really for if we could go scroll down a little bit more. Chris if you would go into the studies of this and how we are really trying to mesh in with the neighborhood. From what you and the team you know that would be great. So Chris John's thought craft architects. So as Ed laid out here we are we're three story building at the front total four stories where we pull the fourth floor back in and further alignment with some of the upper stories or roof lines of buildings along the street. And then we've we've kind of split the building into to again kind of recall the proportions of the structures that march down. So we're going to go to the next. And so the kind of building looking at the triple decker typology and you know this notion of a goal of ours is to try to provide private outdoor space for each unit. And we know it's kind of a ubiquitous thing with indoor chest or with the triple deckers and so to achieve that in a multi family building is is no small feat. And I think it's from what we're hearing in the market and you know given what we've gone through in the last three years with COVID I think people are really appreciating having their own. Space or really a step outside and get fresh air and so you know again this reinforces the environmental. Then to this project and really trying to make a high quality environmentally friendly project next. And so we don't think just about the exterior I think it's it's important to think about the actual homes that we're providing. And so those outdoor spaces become really critical to the quality of the units and the amount of glazing and daylighting that they afford to go next. And this is this kind of a final rendering here from across the street looking at our our new driveway entrance on the right and turning into the screen parking beneath the building. The lobby and entrance are on the left first floor and then you can see kind of the three stories as presented along the street edge with the fourth floor pulled back considerably where it's virtually out of you even when you come back as far as across the street and a neighboring house. So I think that's all we have with that we take any questions or comments. Thank you. Any questions from the board. What's on the ground floor is that is that a residential unit or retail with all the. Yeah so the ground floor unit is going to I mean the ground floor plate is actually going to be the at grade parking in the back. And the front is actually where that when we're the window glazing is going to be the bike storage the lobby in the mail room and buffing where the numbers are on the front of the building is going to be the mechanical room with no windows. Are any of these units affordable? Yeah 14 units. Yes we're counting for two units. I didn't catch that. Thank you. Yeah. What are you meeting income? We haven't established that with housing but based on what we're hearing the averages are between 70 and 80. Thanks for what we would estimate actually negotiating with the housing housing authority. One question I'm looking at parking spaces six and seven have those been reviewed for maneuverability in the garage. Six and seven. Can you scroll up? Yes. Can I ask a plan please? I might have to do some three point turning but in order to continue on with this we needed to add some parking we have not done a full on maneuverability study yet. But based on what I've seen in other buildings especially these Boston where I'm also a real estate broker we've seen very very similar layouts. And with the distance between parking spaces right so it's Chris it's correct me if I'm wrong but it's about 20 feet. So between the rear of one car to the rear of another car would be about 20 feet and that should be more than enough for room to safely back out of a space and and turned to leave the lot. I can other questions from the board. Here in that man public testimony. Yes, good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The applicant has completed their community process. Our office element boat is meeting in May of this year that was well attended with suggestions on green space and concerns over the project but a little to no opposition. The proponents have met with the local civic group a handful of times but it's my knowledge there's no layer of support or opposition on file. At this time we'd like to defer to the board to judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry Ross. I just do have a question about that because I didn't receive community support a letter of support which is attached to our file along with two other butter letters of support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. No additional questions from the board. Hearing none may have a motion. I'm moving to approve with BBA design. May I have a second? That's right, Dr. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes, Miss Berraza. Yes, as we will. Yes Valencia. Yes, Miss Conato. Yes Mr. Collins. Yes, Sarah also was yes motion carries good luck. Thank you. Thank you all very much Next we have case be away 151 e-creshold 46 Official IPF can e Yes, one James Christopher businesses six moderate One Ben Is My senior architects, William Christopher, who will present the plays. Thank you. Good morning, thank you for hearing us. We have a project here proposed for you. Before you is a three-story single, Resident Andrew unit from Goldbrook Street, which is a size street in Clinton, so Austin, the zone violations are FAR, and required a day hours to where 2.4. And the yachts at best are pre-existing conditions. Juneau is an existing base and foundation at the problem that used for storage. So as we go through the building, basically we both have some signs. This is the contextual signs show a location of the problem as it's front on the front of Goldbrook Street. The next slide is a combination of the, no please don't down one of this. It that shows the existing foundation that's the place that we're going to be building directly on top of. The next slide is a picture of Goldbrook Street looking east. The signs are right here, and the white car is on the side. The next slide is showing the json areas around the site. This is a private way. The part of the street is not paved as we go down. Next is the existing slash for both site land that shows the existing building as well as all the drainage situations. There is an onsite drainage system that handles all the old floor and dry water. The next slide is the Goldbrook, because it shows the deck on the third level. Next is the first Goldbrook Lane that shows tandem parking space, the two cars, the Goldbrook Street's G-O-Lat. That the low area is the entrance area that has a stair up to the living area. There's also a personal lift that's being installed and do it. Behind that is a storage area. On the second floor are the two bedrooms. As you come up, the lift while the stair is the master bedroom to the right with the deck in the private bathroom. To the left is a single bedroom with a public bathroom attached as well. Then on the third floor is where we have a living area, where we have the kitchen dining room, living area, a half bath of support, as well as an open deck, the back of the building facing towards the bed. Next slide is a list in the Royalty and Brothers, and shown also the footprint of our building. Next is the elevations. On the left-hand side is the rear elevation of the building with the first floors is really a grave with the basement of the wall. The wall of this is the right side elevation that's showing again the three-story, the first-story being the parking area, so there's no windows there. And then the bedroom and the living area is illustrated. The next slide shows the front of the building, the left-hand side of the garage door, to the first-salt door, to get out of the building. The building will be fully spring-rolled, and the only gas can be brought into the building is a gas line, so they can legally put a grill on their deck would have to be high-pipes while the city should set that. Next is a section that illustrates the volume and the face size of the building and how it weighs out. And then finally we've got three-dimensional imaging that shows the context of the building. That's the building in the front there, as we've proposed it. In the final slide, our two illustrations have contextually how the building sits and fits within the fabric of this day, where the salt lost. If there are questions on whether the floor is fine. Thank you. Questions from the board. What are the required side-year setback? I'm sorry? What are the required side-yard setback? Side-yard setbacks require a three-feet. What do you have? For a four-troll evidentials. As I say, that's a pre-existing condition. Was this property originally one full property that was 464 East Semistry? And are you dividing that property? No, I'm not dividing it. So it's this own property, because I'm looking at the zoning viewer and it's acknowledging 25 co-broke as just one full property under the address of 464 East Semistry. So I just want to clarify. Well, we can go on a journey. You can see that they are dealing several problems. This problem, it stands along not part of any subdivision, but not looking for a subdivision. This project invented for the whole of previously the first two to construct the parking deck and basement foundation as well. Okay. So this is just a note to my board members. Even though the garage parking structure is almost, it's kind of an interesting typography and it's almost like at level one. And there's a level below it. My concern is that you're building up right to the property line and you're showing windows, and typically windows are to be located five feet from the property line. So my concern is just the rights of your, like your butters and their ability to build up. So I'm just putting that as an observation to my colleagues. I mean, just sort of, I'm not asking for any building or relief. So we're working with the 15% of projected openings that are allowed between three to five feet per the building floor. Okay. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, can I put the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a corner new move with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of this board, oh, and that's so soon that the butter is being for 25 corporate street on November 30th of 2022. Over 20 butter were in attendance that meeting. Many concerns and questions were... And it's shadow impact, the size... I'm just assuming you got cut off for a short period. Can you start with a... Sure. So, to be about as being on November 30th, 20 of abouters were in attendance. Concerned some questions were raised around drainage, shadows, the size of the project and utilities. Oh, and this has received over a dozen letters in opposition, including one from the Gate of Heaven Neighborhood Association, which took issue with what the height feeling this would have a significant impact character of the neighborhood. Residents and of abouters were also concerned about co-grouping an unpaid private way and how that would impact water and sewer access and drainage issues that already exists, as well as emergency vehicle access. We also want to note that we received three letters of support as well, which the board should have access to, with that will defer to the board at this time. Thank you. The budget was far. Can I please let public testimony finish, then you can respond? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Members of the board, Anna Cunnet, on from Council President, Flint, office, the council would like to go on record in opposition, based on feedback through the community process, some neighbors and the Gate of Heaven Neighborhood Association, who also submitted an opposition letter to the community, neighbors call attention to the height, meaning consistent with the character of the surrounding community, and the last size being below the minimum to be all done. Moreover, this is an error on pay-fway, and neighbors have express serious concerns. Not only about quality of life during the construction phase, but more importantly, the logistics of our vehicles and staging will go, and it will be a very important issue. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good action. I'm Sharon. I'm Miss Bavora. I'm from councilmember office. I'm from the community process. I'm from Dr. Batters. Thank you. This is Erin Clill. One of the owners of 464E7, and this is an opposition, and so we'll let those stand, but wanted to clarify that 464 is actually the director of Batters, and it's not a part of 25 coal-brock, as far as any legally existing lot to our understanding. Thank you. No additional raise hands, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. may have spoken who are on the record and opposition. Just want to make sure that's clear. Any other questions from the board? And we're here from the BPDA on this one. Mr. Hampton, are you available? I don't know if he's available. Was there anything specific you wanted to ask? Just that they are recommending approval with design review. Did Mimi, yes? Any other questions? Well, is Mr. Hampton available? I'll give one more chance. I don't hear him. So any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I make a motion to approve with BPDA review with a special attention to increasing the open space, the user open space, and attention to the windows on the left side of the project. Is there a second? A second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Berazo. I'm going to go in a record if no due to the side yard. Not having sufficient side yard set back and hearing the opposition for the project. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Carado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. The chair also votes no, but the motion carries. I'm going to run away. Okay, I think we have a break again until one o'clock and as a reminder to the one o'clock applicants, it will become a six member board for about 30 minutes, which may be the duration of the hearing. I don't know. So Ms. Panato will be filling in as chair while I am the member who needs to step away. Thank you. See you guys. Well, did that go on recording stopped?