 The City of Boston is running board of appeal for September 29th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law and the executive order of Governor Acre suspending certain provisions there off due to the ongoing public health crisis. This hearing of the board is being held remotely by the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively and muted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. The fact reason the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by the project. That is those individuals who live closest to that project. If you wish to comment on appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press start through to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state in name and address first and then be called upon to provide comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Before we start, let me take a roll call of board members. Mr. Fortune. Mr. Arleck. Mr. Kendell. Mr. DeVoe. Mr. Slob. Mr. Kendell. Mr. Ambassador is Mr. Kendell present. Tyrone is present. Okay. He's on mute. Okay. Is a representative here for BPA? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Chef Hampton from the BPDDA. Thank you. Okay. So let's get started. I just want to make sure that the applicant for 65 to 69th Atlantic app is proceeding with your appeal. Is Maria Ferdura or a representative? Maria Ferdura is present. Thank you. Are you going to go ahead with your appeal? Yes, we intend to go ahead with our appeal. Thank you. Thank you. In the meantime while we are going through the rest of the hearings, people in support are in opposition to the proposed project. Please send and no, through chat, put the name, your address, and if you are opposed or in opposition, I mean, you're in support. I heard a lot of comments prior and I just want to make sure that everybody is accounted for. Since I do want to make sure this meeting proceeds swiftly, but it is hard. So please put your comments in the chat to everybody. In the meantime, Mr. Fortune, please proceed. Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Yes. This is Joe McGecker, Councillor Baker's office. Can I meet a quick statement? Madam Chair, regarding last week's meeting. Let's wait for the 930th Joe. Okay. We did receive the email from Councillor Baker. And so thank you. Let's wait for the full hearings so that we can hear your statement in context. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the first cases for extension, calling BOA 725-791-224, Wordsworth Street. There's a companion case, BOA 725-794-68 Wordsworth Street. Name and address for the record, please. From warning, Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Richard Benz, 2.25 Summars Street, East Boston on behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, this involves two decisions of the board, rendered in September, filed with as the end September of 2017. There was one extension granted by the board last July, which expired on September 22nd of this year. We have made our request on September 22nd and there's a support for the board for one year extension. The reasons being are twofold. One, we're dealing with some issues involving registered land for this parcel, but also there is a pretty steep slope that requires some review of the engineering for the design. We're hopeful that that can be completed on a very short order. An requirement can be pulled this far. Okay. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to extend for one year pass termination. Is there a second? Second. Thank you. Thank you, Carrie. All those in favor? Aye. Are you opposed? Motion carries for a one year extension. Calling an ex case, calling BZC, 30642-340-360 Boilson Street. Name an address for the recu- please. Good morning, Chair and members of the board. This is Adam Huntley from Guelton and Stores, real estate council for the Dukeert Company. I'm at 400 at Lentek Avenue. I'll speak for just 30 cents to respect your schedule, but obviously happy to talk longer. 340-360 Boilson Street is in approximately 221,000 squirtboard, primarily office development. We've made great strides over just a lot of things from permitting, including finalizing a cooperation agreement, a waiver of further review, a tap amendment. Please tell us, we know that you're you've made a lot of progress. Tell us why you need the extension. Sure. We're actively working on permitting. We have a few agencies left to get through, and then the final program drawings to prepare. So we certainly appreciate it that the board would consider a one year extension. When did this expire? How does it expire? Yeah, it has not expired yet. The first couple days of December, December 2nd of this year. Okay, so may I have a motion, please? Motion to extend for a year pass date 2nd. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. I think. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next two cases. Calling B-O-A 500504, 10-18 Boaton Street. There is a companion case B-O-A 500502, 100-104 Boaton Street. Name and address before the record, please. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. Member of the board, Joseph Feister, my colleague Timothy Frazier is also on the on this call this meeting as well. From the law firm on McKenzie and Associates, 183 State Street, Sweet Six, Boston, Massachusetts. Would you like me to proceed, Madam Chair? Yes, please tell us what weekly lives were on the request for the extension. Well, we're seeking an extension. This was a matter where the board back in November of 2015 granted the variances. In a butter filed a lawsuit starting in 2016 and just to shorten it and in our letter, we talk about all the instances where the butter is filed and the shortest missiles, etc. went to land court and all the way through 2018, 2019, the butter has held this project by various actions until that period of time. So the effort of the project could not proceed. Presently, the court action has ended, except for one matter that's in superior court, the one in land court has ended. But nonetheless, our client is seeking to try to negotiate an access arrangement with the butter and for easement or license. What has occurred here and what? Thank you, Councillor. Yes, so it is in superior court. You're just making sure that your applicant has covered me. I have a motion, please. If I can just speak for one quick minute, to read some wires, ask for a period beyond the one you're just speaking of because it is very unlikely that in a one year period of time that my client will have this project uprunning and completed. And in the event that this gets going much longer and I decide to retire, it could be some issues that may come up as far as meeting your filing of the request for an extension before then. So I would request a longer period of a time for the extension if that was possible. So Mr. Frazier is ready to stop into your shoes. Should you ever retire, Mr. Buss? That is absolutely correct. I would. I would. More than adept to do that Madam Chair. Okay, may I have because this is in superior court to your extension, please? Motion to offer to your extension beyond the data termination. Thank you Madam Chair. Second. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you. Calling an ex-case for G-Card. Calling DOA 109-9197-10-Clamon-Pak. This is the remodeling existing brownstone. All new framing. Just change the document from my four family dwelling to a two family dwelling. The violation is out of Col 32 section. For this is the groundwater conservation overlay district applicability. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LeCast. LeCast law 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the applicant. This appeal seeks to change the occupancy from four to two. All done. This is Katz. Is Christy and Seminella on the line? Yes Madam Chair. Good morning. Christian Seminella-Boston-Groward Trust. We have both the BWSC approval and no harm letters from the applicant. May I have a motion please? I'm going to go for a hint of letter. Thank you Mr. Fortune. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Was there a second on that? Was that Carrie? Will you the second? I didn't, but I can be. Okay. Okay. Doc, all the eyes across all the trees. Motion carries. Your old second Mr. LeCast. Thank you so much. Calling an ex case. Calling B-O-A 109-305-1264. Huntington Avenue. This is the Huntington Theatre renovation and expansion to the theatre building to modernize the front and back of the house spaces. The work joint fluid involves restoring the facade of the building, the demo, and expansion into the arcade area. The violation is Article 32, Section 4. This is G-Card Apple DeGuille. Name and address. Full record please. Good morning. Virginia O'Blavery, Sprawlett Construction, 560 Harris-Nouth Boston-Mex. Thank you. Mrs. Nomenelli. Madam Chairman, this is the boy Christian, Semenelli-Boston-Groward Trust, and we have the BWSC and no harm letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, we also have the letter from Boston-Watering, so we also have it. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Motion to be a please. Second. All those in favour? All right. I post motion carries. I'm going to call the 930. I'm going to call the 930 cases for deferrals with Drowls. If you are deferring with Drow, please give me the address first before you speak. So if there are any deferrals with Drowls for 930 only. Madam Chair, we do have a letter of withdrawal from, I'm going to call it into the record. Peace, B-O-A, 109-2752-582-East Broadway. We have a letter to withdraw, so I'm going to make a motion for denial with all those registered. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Any other requests for withdrawals or deferrals? Madam Chair. That's the address please. 11 Pacific. That's 1130. No 930s only. I'm sorry. Okay, if we're ready to go, Mr. McGrack and Trump, Councillor Baker's office, please put the address on the record and your position, the council's position on that address please. Mr. Ambassador, can you please help? Joe, you're unmuted. Joe. All right, go to seat, Joe. Joe. Yes. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to call it on you for your comment. Please put your name and address on the record, the name of the project when it was hard and the council's position on it. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Joe McGrack, the city council, Frank Baker's office. I'd like to make a couple of quick comments regarding the Board of Appeal meeting last week on September 22nd regarding 820 Marcy Boulevard. I was expected to comment on the council's behalf. For instance, some technical difficulties lost my connection was not able to release his opposition. The councilor is, and he is now sided with the community who got in billboards in George Hester, I think the city is abroad. So we weren't able to go ahead and as our opposition, I'd like to do that today. I thank the Board. Thank you. We ought to receive a letter from the councilor which is in the file. Thank you. Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the first case for 930 calling B.O.A. 102 for 089 303 Maverick Street. This is seeking to change our from a three-family residential dwelling to a four-family residential dwelling and area third-story addition. Also to add a fourth-story addition, extended living space into the basement and renovate. The violations Article 53, Section 56 are three parking is insufficient. Article 27T, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 62, basement units are forbidden. Article 53, Section 8, the MFR is forbidden. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient additional law to area per unit. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, the maximum allowed height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space per unit. And Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side yard. Name and address for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the Board. Attorney Jeff Drago. With Drago and Tuscano with an address of 15 Broad Street, representing City Realty on a project at 3L Tremabird Street. In this project, we're seeking to change the occupancy. Existing three-family dwelling to a four-family condominium building, adding a three-story rare addition, adding a fourth-story unit, proposing to extend living space in the basement with a common utility room down the basement as well. The floor plans, let's see the area of view of the surrounding area. The floor plans have in the basement, two bed, one and a half bath, and then on the first floor, that would be a by-level unit. We are proposing another one bedroom, one bath with an office kitchen dining. That unit would be approximately 2000 square feet. On the second floor, it's three-bed, two bath, 1,199 square foot unit. On the third floor is a three-bedroom, two-bath, 1,016 square foot unit, with a rare pullback of six feet back, a rear deck, and the back of building. The fourth and new unit is a two-bedroom, two-bath, 1,075 square foot unit, with a 10-foot rear pullback, a rear. This project would also include a complete gut renovation of the interior and the exterior of the the the violations to go with them. The use in this area, what's allowable is 3F. This is a four-family building. We are not proposing a basement apartment. This is just an extension of living space in the basement. The additional lot area required to be a thousand per unit. We have 725 square feet. The FHR is 1.0. What we have currently is 1.53, and we're proposing 2.8. A height and feel is 35, and we're proposing 46 feet, four stories. Our front yard is pre-existing, no change, our side yard is no change, and we are not able to create any parking, although we are a shop walk to Maverick T-station, and we are in an i-bought district. I can pause for any questions that would go wrong now. Okay, I'm looking at Google Maps. And this looks like a very standard triple-decker neighborhood. This block for the most part is follows that building pattern, but for the building next door, which has a pitch roof. The buildings across the street also look like they're pretty standard triple-deckers. Can you explain why there's this need for the fourth floor, the fourth floor addition? Well, Madam Chair, there are actually a lot of five-story new proposed new developments that have been approved at 287 Maverick, 320 Maverick, right at the corner that are all under construction, or just recently built. What this new unit will give us is an additional unit, but it is going to be a condo building and a complete gut renovation. We did work on pulling that back in the rear on both our third floor and fourth floor, giving more air and light work on this for about a year, and the community on that. But there are a number of five quarries in and around the area, but you are right. It is a 3F district and had predominantly been 3F prior. How are the plans, Mr. Arlecker? The drones are all at a switch. As you pointed out, it seems to be a little bit out of context. Mr. Dragoli and one of the drones that says that the basement floor will be lower to achieve 7F6, so it's obviously not 7F6 at the moment. My question is, what does that make the height to the bottom of the windowsill on the basement? The current height, Mr. Arlecker? No, the proposed well, both. I mean, just add, yeah, now at 7F6, what will be the height? I know we have the architect, I believe, is on the call at Glassman. Again, who is the architect? Adam Glassman. Mr. Ambassador, can you find Adam, please? Yes, Adam, you're on mute. Adam's here and all of the required escape windows will have no more than 44 inches from the escape window sill to the new finished floor. Adam, you're on mute. And tell us about this. Adam, tell us about the occupancy in the basement. What is proposed? It's a, it becomes part of a first floor duplex. It's not a, it's not a dwelling unit. And so what is the living space in the basement? We have a couple of bedrooms and a bathroom. It's 930 square feet, Adam, share with a common mechanical room, the separate staircase. Okay, and then, okay. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Lina Tamelli, the mayor's office of the new services. We would like to go on the recording support. The office of the new services is Tadana Barrios, meeting on December 17th. Would the address most of the concerns expressed during the community process? Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. The card of the trunk from the office of the city council, Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on the record. And support of this proposal. She was a proponent to continue working with the abutters on any concerns they might have. And to work with the instructional services department, there are a number of construction projects already underway in the area, which is having an impact on community. So just working with ISD to minimize the impact of the construction. Thank you. Any but else to speak, either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, our secretary here. We have 15 letters of support. Thank you. Madame Chair, I have two raised hands. Thank you. Vinnie? Good morning. I am Vinnie Claremont. I want 13 college students and I am in support of this project. And I have three of them. Thank you. Marina? I am Marina Galato at 139 Everett Street speaking in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. No other raised hands, Madame Chair. Thank you. Given that information and understanding the building form, did the BPDA want to go on record on this? Thank you, Madame Chair. We received the plans and time to make a recommendation to this. Our board met over a month ago. But to echo your concerns about the traditional feel and look of triple deckers throughout the city. If the board were to approve this, he would ask for a design review for the neighborhood context. Thank you. Given that information and you have a motion, please. I am going to make a motion to approve with two providers, one BPDA design review for context. And the other no building code relief to ensure that the ceiling height in the basement and the window heights are appropriate. It's our second. Second. Is that Mr. DiPo? Yeah, all those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? For the record, I will put my opposition on the record because it is extending the density on the street and expanding both upwards and into the basement, which seems contrary to the building form of that street. But motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling BLA 109-2261-273-Border Street. This is a change of opportunity of Unit 1C from the office to beauty salon. The violation of Article 53 Section 8, a beauty shop is conditional use. Name and address for the record, please. No. Hi there. I'm Madam Chairman of the Board. This is Holly Malone at 1-20 Washburn Outper Beer. So, tell us what's being proposed in this space? So we are looking to put a here's one in the small space here. So, how are the plans, Mr. O? The plans are fine. Okay. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of the proposal? We do have a letter that was sent by people. I thought that was not told on the applicant. Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Anybody from the board's office? Anybody from the City Council's office? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. Record a control from the Office of City Council. Lydia Edwards, the Council would like to go on the record and support this proposal. Thank you. Anybody else? And I noticed that BPA has a recommendation for design review and signage and exterior work. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve if you need a design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. It was probably your easiest project. Top. Yeah. Following the next case, calling BOA 100-6765-407 Saratoga Street. This is the extend living area of unit one into the basement by building an interior wall petition, according to proposed plans. And large two windows in one door opening to meet the basement egress. The violation is Article 53 Section 9. The Floodier Ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Chairman of the board. My name is Bonnie Tan with the BTR-6585 Washington Street, Quincy, Mass. The owners will seem to seek a basement extension in the with two bedroom. The original existing first floor has a one bath two bedroom unit looking to seek an additional two bed one bath in the basement. The existing door floor is four bed one bath. The existing second floor three bed one bath are also remained existing no change. Okay, so I'm looking at the plans from the street level. This is a three family? Yes, existing three family. Okay, so again, please tell us the number of bedrooms in the third unit. The existing third unit is four bed one bath. Okay. The second. Second unit is three bed one bath. Okay. And the first floor's wash basement, what is it proposed to be? The proposed first floor unit will be two bed total four bed two bath. Four bedroom and the harmony bedrooms in the basement. That's including two bed one bath in the basement. Okay. Four bed two bath. I don't know. Yeah. Tell us how the basement space is connected to the first floor. There will be a new stairs inside unit one of first floor that goes to the basement. Okay. The second means will be going all the way outside. Okay. And is there a kitchen in the basement? There won't be a kitchen in the basement. The kitchen we main on the first floor. Okay. Miss, and what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? The proposed ceiling height will be seven feet. Well, actually, they are looking to dig it down to seven six. Seven six? Yes. Okay. Mr. Arleck, how was it? The plans are problematic. On a three, at least the plans that I have. First of all, there's no elevations. So there's no way of knowing what the heights are. The comment by the applicant about seven foot six is the first that I've heard of what the high listen to would make me to take down the floor, lower the floor. And secondly, on a three, the proposed basement plan, it does to show what's being described. So, does she own new tiers? This thing, perhaps, and then three existing storage rooms, no bedrooms. Actually, that is not the proposed layout. That is the existing layout. I believe the climb I have submitted the wrong sheet. I'm sorry. I can only go by what I am given. So, if you submit the wrong sheet, there's a problem. Mr. Arleck, too, is the basement are, can those are the same people's sides as I have the previous application on on Maverick's street. It's exactly the same building. I'm sorry. Can you say that again? The building form is exactly the same as the one on the square Maverick Street. Okay. So, it will be pretty much real basement to having space. Okay. Well, the Maverick and had elevations and a proposed basement that reflected what the applicant was seeking. These plans do not. There's elevations. And again, apparently there's a mistake made on a proposed basement plan. So, I don't know how. So, they're not adequate. I'm sorry. I believe the sheet has been submitted, but I don't know why the board doesn't have the updated of the visions. I don't know. All I can tell you is what I was given. Okay. I want you to get, Madam Chair, I want you to just deferring this until the full set of plans are available to review. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion deferred. Is there a second? All those in favor? You opposed the date, please? We have a date of November 17th. Okay. Thank you. What time are you in the support? 1 o'clock November 17th. Thank you. Until the applicant, please not only include the proper basement floor plan, but include elevations, please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling VOA104-7745-492-Sumner Street. This is seeking to confirm, Arkansas's a three family dwelling and change to a four-family dwelling in Renovate. The violation of the Article 53 Section 8, a four-family usage forbidden. Article 53 Section 56, off-street parking and loading. Article 53 Section 9, additional law dearies insufficient. And Article 53 Section 9, the floor deary ratio is excessive. Name an address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board Attorney, Jeff Drago, and Drago and Tuscano with an address of 15 Broad Street. I could stop you for one moment. Madam Chair, Ed DeVoe, IEM, going to recuse myself from this case. Okay. So Drago, we then need to inform you. You have a five-member board. Everybody needs to be in support project for your proposal for it to carry. You have an option to proceed or ask for an administrative deferral when we do have at least six members who can vote on this project. I'm going to go forward. Thank you for that information, Madam Chair. Okay. Let's proceed then. The proposal is to change the occupancy of an existing three-family building, residential building, and to add a basement unit converting to a four-family. It would also be to renovate the lower level of the building and the exterior of the building with an facade. There would be changes to the existing three units in the building. This new unit in the basement would be approximately 65 percent above grade, which you'll see during slope of the lot. A lot size is 2,634 square feet. The new unit is proposed two-bed two-bath at 896 square feet with a ceiling height of seven foot six. It has an egress, the front entrance of the building with a staircase, and then as a full walk out through the back of the building, we also are adding egress windows as well. There would be a shared mechanical utility room that has separate access for the tenants, for the residents above. The other units would not change. They're all 900 square feet. It looks like this is one half of an attached building. Is that true? So it is attached, correct? Okay, so what I need to understand is that it looks like there is maybe two feet between the side of this building and the abiding building. There's three foot three. Okay, so can you explain how this egress windows will work? And it looks like there might be a mental gap between the two? I believe so, but there's also, I know Adam Glassman who's the architect, may also, if he could speak to this, but we also have the full walk out in main entrance in the front. There is how many people? No, I mean, I am picking up on the fact that you mentioned that the windows will have access. I apologize in what I just said. It's just for right now. I apologize, Madam Chair, that is my mistake. There is two footings of egress that did I apologize for that? Okay, so, oh yes, okay. Okay, Mr. DeVoe is, oh, because it's interesting, I'm looking at the map. Okay, let's just take it. So, Mr. Oh, like, how are the plans? I live in the question of density. The plans are adequate. All of the boxes are checked off in terms of egress and the various other things that are needed for this. So, let me ask you, if there's a fire, somebody goes into the backyard, where do they go off to that? Well, there's, I mean, we have a large backyard. We have a rear setback of 43 feet, seven inches. So, I mean, there's also the side on the left hand side of the building on the right, sort of in the back, if you see, there's a large yard spaces, so which is climbing up and down that corridor. But the building will be fully sprinkled as well, Madam Chair, which it is not right now, and these would be converted to condos. We do have an egress path on the left. Okay. Okay. Um, how are the plans? Just, like, as I said, we'll talk the radicals. Okay. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, we do have one letter of support to Secretary here. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support the property? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Lina Tameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to run the recording support for this proposal. During the community process, this proposal receives strong support from Dia Bars and also from the Jeffries Point Neighborhood Services. Yes, neighborhood associations, sir. I apologize before I had technical issues, and I want also to know that the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services is in support of two, seven, three, four. Thank you. We missed you. Anybody else to speak and support our opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, report a Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lidia Edwards. The Councilor would also like to go on the record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Karen Foley, Councilor Sadijouj's office. I'd like to unrecord and support this project. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, anybody else to speak on this project? No, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mayor. Have a motion, please. Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Second. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling your next case. Calling B-O-A-105-675-9-42 West Eagle Street. This is a change of October from a three to four unit residential building, drawing the violation of the article 2017-5. This is in the East Boston applicability. Article 53 Section 8, the MFR is the bid news and a 2F-2000 sub district. Article 53 Section 56, Austria-Pakny's insufficient. Article 53 Section 9, the Florida E ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, we're to the left. 245 Sumner Street East Boston. On behalf of Mario Martinez, who is the petitioner on this particular project. Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing four-story structure located in the Eagle Hills section of East Boston. It undergone a complete renovation under an ELT long form back in 2017 and 2018. And it's then spent converted to condominiums. This particular proposal used to complete the lower level portion. I thought we had sent over our slide that showed the actual exterior of the building. Madam Ambassador. Call it. As that's being called up, Madam Chair, I'll run through just briefly what the program looks like. So the lower level of this is a complete full walkout area. It's not even below gray basement. And we are proposing to convert that to the global space. This was included with the presentation when the entire building, including the adjoining right side had gone through a zoning process for renovations where the life safety had been upgraded to both sides of the building. And the both owners of full-time the building agreed to create a more streamlined and contiguous appearance in the building. I was hoping to be able to show that as part of the part of the elevations. So I'm looking at this on Google Maps. It looks like this four mailboxes are already there. I'm assuming these are all flow-throughs. And the unit in question is the part that has the break the side on the first floor on the ground level. That was correct, Madam Chair. The condominium documents presently show only three units with the right of the declaring to go ahead and convert that fourth level after the board but feel it proves it. It is unfinished. It remains unoccupied, obviously, depending on the decision of the board. The total size of the unit is roughly about 800 square feet. The ceiling height is seven feet six inches. The building, as I mentioned previously, is already fully sprinkled, including a lower level at the the clouds for the bedroom windows that are being shown with the building code requirements of a sill height as well as a clear opening space for the window. Is it two beds? Two beds? We show it as two beds, two beds that is correct. One of the things that I also point out is when this project was going through the renovation. We were able to create a total of four parking spaces. Three of those spaces have been assigned to the existing condominiums. So one space has been reserved in the event that the board grants relief. So each unit will still continue to have one parking space assigned. And did this project go before this board in the past? It did only for renovations for the upper levels. The conversion of the lower level was something that would be done in part of phase two. So why did it come for piecemeal approval rather than contextual approval? I don't have a good enough answer for that Madam Chair. I believe at the time that the renovations were ongoing, the focus was on the rear portion of the building and the upper levels. How are the plans Mr. Oleg? Well, it's a little irritating again. As Mr. Lin said, there's no renovations. So all I have to look at is a 101, which is a very small floor plan for the basement. It does show the cell height, but there's nothing about the ceiling height. So you know, I would just to Mr. Lin, and for all the applicants, please make sure that you give, keep providing it to the information. It has to be comprehensive and thorough. Otherwise, we're making decisions with one hand time behind our backs. Mr. Oleg, I apologize if you look down and the lower right corner of A 101. It does put a note in there for the finished ceiling height of the ceiling. It does, but you know what, an elevation that shows great, you know, you said this fully walk out. I don't know that. I take your word for it, but that's why we have drawings. Yeah. I collect. Can you please pull back and show us what the proposed basement plan is? Would you say it was 301? It's a 101. It's the bottom. Okay. The last line. Bottom works. Yeah, there it is. So Mr. Lin is correct. Under the notes in the bottom right, it says finish ceiling at 746, and up above it shows the the window elevation, but there's no elevation to show that it's above below. Yeah, great. Anything. And, you know, it's, it's um, try to do it. I, I, and Mr. Oleg, I, again, I apologize. I did include my slide deck actually included a more comprehensive view of the building. And I, I tried to include that and sent that in last week to the board to be included for, for review. And I will be sure to include, make sure that a section of the basement, as we propose these going forward is included as part of a, part of a drawing. Um, I understood that the notes being included with the plan, sand plan, worst sufficient. I do apologize for that. Okay. Thank you. So the, the, what I'm looking at right now, is that the first four? One. At grade level, Madam Chair, that would be behind what you saw in the picture on Google Maps is the brick area. Okay. So this is the, so this is the, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um, so this, okay. So, um, is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Lina Tremelli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on the recurring support. The Office of Neighborhood Services had an about a meeting on March 11th. One of the about a express support for this proposal. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, the card of the Trump from the Office of City Counselor, Lydia Edwards. The Council would also like to go on the record and support of this proposal. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councilor Saby George's office, we'd like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support our opposition? Madam Chair, I have no raise hands. Thank you. And from what I understand, it is the only plans that we have on record. What, you know, Mr. Mons, just to make sure that your architect, I mean, I mean, Mr. Chu has proposed, just to your regular, as board, you know, with all the different applicants, you know, we just need to be more fully informed. And to the applicant, you know, this, this piecemeal presentation, that really, really doesn't work for us, because it, and I don't think it works for the neighborhood because they don't really get a sense of what the density impact is on the enabled when things come in piecemeal. Now, I've said my piece, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Do you want to hold plans up, Mr. Olic, so that your fully informed? Yes, I would like to make a motion to approve, but the whole signature. By the way, I should ask Mr. Hampton in the BPDA, we're talking about no building code relief. Why, why was that? I don't see the need for that, but I'm curious. The same reason that you and Madam Chairwoman had spoken of our hearing that we also receive the same plans that you've looked at. And even though the note does say it will be 7'6", it doesn't show it. Yes, okay. So what is the motion again? So the motion is to approve with BPDA design review but to hold signature until the complete set of plans are submitted. And did you want no building code relief? Well, if the complete set of plans show that it's 7'6", then there's no need. Okay, is there a second? Can I say something Madam Chair again, to shift it to the police? If you look at this building, I don't think there are any external changes. I think this was a blanket cover vote from our planner to be honest with you. I think an attorney lens can probably state this. I don't think we need to have design review on this. Okay, so Mr. Oliq, I'm thinking that we need to hold for signature and we need no code relief. Does that make sense? That's fine. And is it our second? Can I just ask Madam Chair, I apologize. So I second. Mr. Lens, no hold on. This is a board discussion at this point. Is there a second? Second, Tyrone. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So a section, Madam Chair, for the for the basement as once required. Yes, a section or an elevator? It's actually, it might be nice to have an elevator as well, but certainly a section. We'll do. Thank you. Calling your next case, calling VOA 111217365-69 Atlantic Avenue. This is a first floor storefront, expanded from an existing restaurant, the Daily Catch. 1700 square foot to an abutting premises of office retail, Aliza Salon, Salon, 650 square feet, with three existing egress. Two bathroom ventilation, sprinkler kitchen hood, will all remain the same. Remove the demising walls to create an open floor plan. The Violation Dutical 9 section 1, extension of an onconforming use in an MFR, MFR sub district is conditional. An Article 34 section 9, accessory use of outdoor seating for 80 persons. Name an address for the Reckon please. Hello, good morning, members of the board. My name is Attorney Michael Brangwin, and I'm here on behalf of the applicant, Calmari Waterfront Corp, doing business as the Daily Catch at 65 to 69 at Atlantic Avenue in Boston. With me today on the hearing is Maria Ferdora, the president of Calmari Waterfront Corp, and Basil Ferdora, the general manager. Also with us is architect David Hodgeon. The applicant is operating currently operating a restaurant in approximately 1700 square feet of space on the ground floor of the building, the existing building. This application is to expand the space approximately 650 square feet into adjacent space that is currently utilized as an office retail use with a laser salon, all on the ground floor at Atlantic Avenue. The change really that we're seeking today is essentially to remove a demising wall to create an open floor plan and allow for more seating at the restaurant. The board may be familiar with the Daily Catch. They've operated locations, currently two locations in Boston, and they had operated an additional location in the seaport at one point. That location was transferred to the Atlantic Avenue location recently, and also locations outside of Boston. It's a family run business with the Ferdora family, and they strive to be a responsible business member of the local community and also provide fresh chisellian-style seafood and pasta to residents of the north end. As part of the process, I should say that initially it was contemplated that the applicant would be seeking or applying for outdoor seating. After discussions with Mr. Diamato and ISD, it was decided that they would not be pursuing that. At this time, the applicant doesn't anticipate perhaps in the future pursuing outdoor seating, but that's not part of the request that we're here for today. So as I'm looking at this request, the violation, which is Article 54, Section 9, accessory use for outdoor seating for 80 people is then removed from the application, and the only violation that you're requesting relief from is Article 9, Section 1, extension of not forming use. I understand it's for 650 square feet. No, I am sorry. I apologize for that confusion. We are seeking to also use the courtyard for seasonal outdoor seating. However, the discussion between our landlord or frill tea trust and ourselves as their tenants was that it would be offered to us for use for outdoor seating if we were successful in expanding into the current laser hair salon. So you're in the entire first floor. So Maria, let me just see if I get this right. I apologize. So today you're requesting the extension of not forming use for 650 square feet and a few to date. And to suffate requesting outdoor seating for 80 people, is that what I'm understanding? Well, it's the horse in the cart. We can't do the outdoor seating until we occupy the remainder of the first floor as one tenant. So all I know is that for this board, we need clarity about what we are walking on. If it's just 650 square feet, that's a different story than if it's 650 square feet plus 80 people. You know, so you just need to be clear with us. What it is that you are requesting of us today. Today I am requesting the expansion and re-zoning of the 650 square feet for us to expand our back of the house restaurant operations. Okay, so that is the only thing that's on the table is the 650 square feet. Well, we also did include the outdoor seating. Are you going to proceed with that or are you going to draw that? Yes, we also want to include that. Yes. Okay, so we did sit for enduring this pandemic. We have had to pull that. Well, no. So to clarify and further, I could, the applicant is going ahead requesting relief from both Article 9, Section 1 and Article 54, Section 9. So given that information, can you, can the attorney for this case tell us about how many square feet is anticipated for the outdoor seating and where it's anticipated for? Well, I think the best person to speak to that maybe our architect who's also on the line. Mr. Hodgkin, do you want to answer the questions regarding the outdoor seating aspect of the plans? Yes. I'm certain he was able to get on because I don't see his name. Okay. Um, the exterior wall of the existing 650 square feet faces the private courtyard known as commercial work way and it would run the length of the building. And which is that and how many square feet is that? Um, I'm trying to find that right now. I apologize. I didn't anticipate that question. I'm sorry. It is eight and six is 14 or 14. 14 feet deep and the light runs. The rate the length runs. Mr. Ola, can you have put that approximately the courtyard would be approximately 600 square feet, which is the shaded area on this drawing that we are looking at right now. Okay. Okay. And what would your hours of operation be? Our, um, transfer of our beer wine and cordial license is from 11 in the morning to 1am with the understanding from our neighborhood meetings that were held last fall that the outdoor dining would cease at 10 p.m. on the weekend. Okay. Okay. Okay. How are the clients Mr. Olaic? Oh, clients are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in front of this proposal? Madam Chair, uh, members of the board. This is John or Mount of the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, we'd like to go and record to support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lillia Edwards. The council would like to leave this at the boards this question, but she would like to encourage continued conversation between the proponent and the abutters regarding their concerns on the ventilation. So, Ricardo, can you please amplify what is the issue with the, with the ventilation? Yeah, I think some of the abutters have kind of, I'm starting, my understanding is the noise that's going to be created by the, the new ventilation system or the new location for the ventilation system. They reached out to our office to express those concerns. I know there's been some conversation between the abutters and the applicant on those concerns in the council. I'd just like to encourage those conversations to continue. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support? Yeah, Madam Chair. Good morning. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, is Karen Foley, Councilor Saby George's office, and we would like to go on-recate supporting councilor Edwards. What councilor Edwards has to say would like to see the owner in me with the abutters regarding the gas system. Thank you. Madam Chair, if could I address, I had meant to address before we were taking questions, the issue with the abutters, and I could speak to that issue briefly. Thank you. Tell us who you are again. I'm sorry, please. This is, this is not, sir. No, that's, this is Attorney Michael Brang went on behalf of the applicant. Okay, go ahead. So as part of my initial presentation, I wanted to mention that we did meet with the North End Waterfront Neighborhood Association of the North End Waterfront Neighborhood Council. And we received support from Noonik, but we did receive an app resolution. I'm honestly not interested because we will hear from everybody what I need to hear from you. If you're going to take time on the on the on the skull is about how the the noise is going to be addressed. Yes, yes, Madam Chair. And that that was what I was getting to. I think that the issue that as I understand it and Maria can also speak to this issue, but was had related to cooking the cooking fumes or the smell of cooking as part of the ventilation system. And this was brought to the applicant's attention at the waterfront neighborhood council meeting. And since that time, the applicant has worked and Maria can speak to what they've done to try to address this and they're working on changing the filters and taking whatever steps necessary to mitigate any of the issues that were raised. And I think Maria has submitted some things to ISD and to the board and she can speak further on what has been done. Maria, can you can you quickly respond to the steps that you are taking to decrease the sound and the ventilation issues? Yes, Madam Chair. I actually don't have any information or any complaints that were submitted based on a noise level. This is strictly where the Louver Vent from our PCU unit exhaust onto Hanover Street. This was installed in 2016 and has been operating under the two previous tenants that ran restaurant operations. I've been informed by the neighbors are butters at the principal building that they are suffering to some extent on different days from older that may or may not laugh through the air to their upper balconies. And this was brought to our attention at the Louver meeting on the temple of September. We have been in contact with our captive air vendor who is the manufacturer of this state of the art exhaust system and they have recommended to replace the third level. There are three stages of filters in our ventilation system that is existing. One is to mitigate the grease filters. There's ten of them. Another one is for the vapors which is ten of them. And then the third one is the third stage are charcoal filters that are of carbon. And cap of air has recommended and has ordered and is in shipping to us right now ten new filters or our 50-50 blend that they feel confident will mitigate the current impact of the virus. Okay. So, empty. We certainly was not all done. So, given that information that there is something in the works familiar with the current exhaust the odor from the exhaust system. Can I hear from people who are in opposition to this project for an opposition? Madam Chair, before the decision, this is Secretary here. We do have one letter of support and I know you're going to go right to opposition, but we also have two letters of opposition and the opposition basically is explaining the same thing in regards to the ventilation. Thank you. Madam Chair, before you take the testimony, I'm, it's, and I correct an understanding that the complaints about the ventilation are from another site, not the one under the proposal. May I answer that question? Yes, please call ahead. The premise that we currently occupy 1700 square feet consists of a 20-foot cooking line with a 24-foot duct that loofers it. The rest of the road will continue to operate with the existing ventilation. It will not change with the additional 650-cerus square feet. So, I think what we need clarity on is, we're the complaints about Atlantic Ave or was it a complaint about a different location that you might be running in the neighborhood. I believe the I can mention handle the street. So that was the reason as well. No, all we're looking at is a Atlantic Ave. Please. That is correct. 55-foot. What? Take 65-foot leather to Gavin. Yes, that is correct. So, that is the place where you receive complaints about odor. Yes. Okay. So, let's stop right there. Let's go ahead. Is anybody here to speak in our position? Madam Chair, there's people that want to speak in favor. Do you want to speak here? Yes, please. Please let's get from in favor and then we'll move. And how many people in favor do you have, Mr. Ambassador? I only have one that said they're in favor, but there's at least eight people that want to speak. So, I'm going to take the one person in support and I'm going to hear from three people in opposition. Anybody else who is in opposition, please send us a note via chat. Jennifer, can you do that? Hi, I am, I'm speaking in opposition. We're at 63 Atlantic Ave. I'm going to right now. We'll leave the vote on those. Jan? Jan? Jan? Hi. Hi. Hi, I'm in support. I want to go on recognize being in support. I am the... You made an address, please. Jan, O'Lendello. I reside at 33 while we're driving Linfield, Mass, but I'm a trustee for commercial, off-wrest and the Welfarelty Trust. I want to say good morning, Madam Chairwoman and the members of the board. We respectfully acknowledge the concerns of the opposition and the daily catch is currently working very hard to mitigate their concerns. We have been good neighbors with the Prince Building and the Brothers for over 50 years. We are in support of this hardworking hands-off family. They don't sit back and let someone else manage. They're in their work in every single day. They bring a lot to the neighborhood. They are trying to make their business work during this very difficult public health crisis. And they have improved the space. They've even commissioned caregivers to make the area that are much more plountable to everyone. Thank you. Thank you. You took an extra space. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can we go ahead and hear from the opposition? Yes. You're welcome. Gerald, you're on. You're welcome. Go ahead. Talk. Good morning. My name is Cherry Olenoff. With me is Kathy McDonald. And what's your request, please? What's your request? 63 Atlantic Avenue. Tell us what your opposition is based on. Well, first of all, this is I've never heard before anything about the outdoor seating, which has been operating for over two months on seven days a week. So I am totally confused. Is it licensed to operate or unlicensed? So to answer you, so to answer your question, that is what they're requesting today. They're asking to formalize that outdoor seating because I guess under COVID situations, they were doing outdoor seating. But I need to know exactly what your opposition is based on. Our opposition is from the intense order that comes from the daily catch. The Prince Building is seven feet away from the exhaust. It's it shares a common law with 55 Atlantic Avenue. We've been talking about this order since October last year. This is nothing new. October last year. Okay, so thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Call your emuted. In your envy, I'm Anne Devon, tell your Pharaoh, I'm not on Zoom, I'm on audio. Okay, let's go ahead. I live at 63 Atlantic Avenue. The previous restaurant never had any more, not even 20. They're talking about 80 people outside and I don't know how many people inside. They're shocked that they're talking about the exhaust system on hand, all the streets at six tables inside their building. I've been here for over 25 years. This is totally opposed to this ventilation system and the exhaust system and the odor. Thank you. Do you have one more in opposition? And please use your time to give us new information. Jennifer, you're on mute it. Hi, thank you. This is Jennifer Crampton at 63 Atlantic Avenue. I think the angle that the board needs to hear is that the ventilation system has been in use for the past restaurants, but I think has not been put through the volume that it daily catches fortunate to have. And the ventilation system seems insufficient. We have our letter that we submitted. A record includes information from an engineer that we engaged. Hold on, can I just ask you, we've heard enough about the ventilation system. Can you tell me about the opinion about the outdoor seating and the extension of 650 square feet for the kitchen use? Because yeah, past said they will be dealing with the exhaust issues. I'm assuming you guys will be in conversation, but here we are looking at the outdoor seating and the extension of 650 square feet. Got it. I think that the extensions that they're talking about may not be smart without fixing the ventilation system. And I don't know that what they're proposing will mitigate the issues. And that's our concern kind of, you know, allowing the expansion, which will push the ventilation system to a further stress, which it may not be able to handle. So your opposition is really focused on the ventilation. Okay. If anybody else is here to speak in opposition, please put a line in and charge to everybody so that we have it in the record. Madam Chair, Catherine O'Donnell, McDonnell is present and is the trustee at 63 in Land Together and wants to go all record about the system. I'm not aware. Fine. We've had enough opposition. Is there anybody here from an elected official's office? If not, anybody who has comments in opposition, please put it in chat. In the meantime, given this information, may I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for approval. Would it provide you know that the applicant and so a state of the ventilation system? Um, and, um, the, um, the food businesses, the condition, use that, that, uh, service, shop, the care, uh, the, uh, who can just do this? I'm sorry, were you responding to me? I, I, I, I, I, as a possible, uh, second provider, that, uh, service, stop at 10 p.m. Okay, that's fine. Is there a second? Second, Sarah. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. I know. Any opposed? Motion carries. Please, um, Maria? Yes. You've heard the issues that we are hearing. Please continue to be in touch with the neighborhood, with the elected official, and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, so that everybody is aware of the steps you're taking, um, to deal with the exhaust and the odor issues. Thank you. We met up, chair. Thank you very much. Thank you. Call the next case, calling BOA 102554922, Braddock Park. This is the confirmed auction. This is a single mailman, expecting new red deck and roof deck, also extending space into the basement and proposing red patio and two live street five. The violation is out of place, 32nd floor, existing to G card applicability, an article 64, section 9.4, townhouse, rowhouse extension, naming address for the record place. Um, should we obtain so the record belongs as to Caw. 10 post office, free, um, I represent the Wilson family, um, and they're seeking to be able to complete their renovations when they're family home. I'll continue to find the railroad. Around the car. My co-counsel, Kyle Smith, we have the architects of the neighborhood, Joseph and I have some staff and the construction team. Put them in the ready and my gang a, a building of a plant, a footprint, and a dream of winter months, three thousand night, and after that first meeting, the victims advised their plants significantly. Mr. Ducca, I want to make sure that the plants we have, that just are, um, what, um, are the most recent plants. It's the best to bring all this to you. Okay, so hold it from side to the Christian. Do you want to go on, Dr. Kid? Chris, you on? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the Board of Christian Seminelli, Boston, groundwater Trust. We do, we have both the BWSE approval and no harm letters from the applicant. Thank you, Madam Chair. Secretary, here we have the letter as well. Thank you. So now let's go to the extension of the, the Ro-Houth townhouse extension. Tell us about that roof deck and access to that roof deck. Any more, the flames were revised. We're in the relief of SPR, the deck which is on a later level. And that is comparable to that of others on that side of the paddock park. And then there's a green to with the neighbors at a meeting which first was Shadeef inducted some weeks ago on a zoom platform. So that's the only relief being sought is for that deck, um, to prepare of the property. The roof elements were eliminated by us to the, uh, the relief needed for the roof. It was a very long and necessary as a result of the revisions made from the second set of plans. And again, Mr. Canard, Mr. Steffanoff can review them. They are available. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. Um, can you please tell us about the dimensions of the roof deck and the dimensions of new rear deck. And then for cypher, Chelsea. Here you sit. I'm sorry. This is taking the applicant this long to get moving. Mr. Oli, can you fill in any information on this? Mr. Oli, go ahead. Go ahead, Mr. Oli. Okay. The plans are fine. The roof deck is accessed by hatch. It's set back a little bit from the front. Since it's a slope roof, it actually, the facade of the front covers a little bit of it. And the grade is, the unit is at grade levels. So the concerns that we typically have are not concerns here. It's a good result. Okay. Tell us about the rear deck. Okay. If you look at, here I'm trying to pull up my plans. If you look at a three-oh, there's a building section that shows pretty much the rear deck. And grade level and it shows the roof deck. So this should give you a pretty A3.0. Yeah, that one came out. There you go. Okay. And this is the south end. Right. So does it conform with our standards for the south end? Has it gone through landmarks? Is it, Brock, it's supported is what we need to know. Right. I'm just wondering whether it is. Is there any, any issue with the south end landmarks of commission is the proposed? It's working out right now. The rest of the windows, anything else is okay. So we need to know because we always ask for back support in the taxes that we're asking for. Who are all the things you I know? I thought that the architect was going to be on the call. And I don't know if you're ready to donate who are the adoption team. Maybe available. Okay. Anybody who supports these things can go on the wreckage. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Faisal Grief at the mayor's office. I held on a butter's meeting back in November 2019 for this proposal. It looked very different. So at the time there were a number several dozen neighbors that came out. They were opposed to both an addition and were felonets and different things. They are. We've had another meeting in July of 2020. They are generally supportive of the reordact addition. Only again, a reordact that's only extending six feet. We just want to put that on the record. It shouldn't be further than six feet that's bracket supported. The normal standards that this board and landmarks also have for this up on. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. All right. Thanks. Thank you. Madam Chica. Madam Chica. Madam Chica. Madam Chica. Madam Chica. Ieisha, did you get what you got to say want to hear me? Now, we heard you. I just don't know. I think Madam Chia want to maybe have some difficulties. I think she might be having some difficulties just for all the wine. Ieisha, Ieisha, Ieisha, I've been. There's a notification over her screen that says there's a low bandwidth issue it looks like. So hopefully. Hopefully she can resolve it a minute or two. Okay. Thank you. And I just hold the line. Okay. I just got a text from the chair. I just got a text from the chair. So I think that that's a wise suggestion. I would compose that we take a. This now 11 o'clock unless the journey's 1110 and hopefully she can resolve the issues. Why don't we go. Why don't we make it. Well, she doesn't have a power out as we don't know how long it's going to be. So why don't we do 1115 at least. Okay. Well, if it's I mean, I think 10 minutes shall know. And then maybe we can trigger out an alternative. She can. Well, let's let's reconvene in 1110 and just see where she's at. That's not good. Don't miss a beat. I know we're in testimony. I think we're getting that. Yes, please. Kevin. I'm going to go back into the right. Okay. Going to 108102. 524922. I'm going to go back to the right. Can I have a. Can you please opportunity. Continue with your. That's sorry. I'm sorry. Please give you a testimony again. My apologies. Good morning, Madam chair members of the board. My name is face the street with mayor's office of new services. We would like to go on record with the board that our office held. We are going to have a report on the resource where we've proposed adding an addition, you know, a head house and different items that are now removed from the proposal, the current proposal, as it stands, we do support. We had the butter's meeting in late July of 2020, and what was proposed basically was a rear deck and a roof deck with a hatch opening. extension on and I think thank you. Thank you. Anna are you going to put up speak on the rocket? Yes, I'm Marangal Deshima and Bersoff the Boa and Calderon from Councillor Fling's office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support of this proposal. We've reached out to neighbours and our bothers and her in a conference. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak on this project? Madam Chair, can you talk about the sticks to a thing under the seat? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. No. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. But I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Madam Chair, I have to mute Lawrence because there's too much issues with his audio. We recommended deferral because we had confusing plans. We had more than one set of plans submitted to the BPD. I'll position it. I know it's always been the boards position that any rear deck, spending into the rear yard is a maximum of six foot and must be bracket supported. We support OIS's comments on that. It seems a little confusing on the plans and I see it almost looks like this deck is post supported and that we do not support. So if this were to be approved, we'd ask for a design review and that the deck be bracket supported in no bigger than 60. Okay, Mr. Kepren, if you look at drawing a 1.2, it shows 10 feet from the edge of the, from the back of the house to the deck to the back of the deck. It's a little confusing because there's a bump out with sliders are so it's actually less there, but it's still more than six feet. But I just want to clarify Jeff for the rear yard. We can request VPD a design review. You know, usually unless it's seen from a public way, landmarks really doesn't touch the rear decks they may have in this case. However, you know, if you were to approve it, I'd ask for the six foot brackets supported deck. Okay, one. Okay. I'm going to ask a quick question. To Mr. Erlich's point earlier about whether we were asking landmarks to review this. We're 100% on the same page as BPD. We did see conflicting designs. Sometimes it looked like it was extending seven feet or more. We just want to be on the record that the only, you know, we're asking for a proviso from the board that it matches that standard day. You normally approve. Thank you. Thank you. So Mark, I suppose we could do a design review. Yes. Okay. And with entry emphasize six foot. Okay, go ahead. Okay, I make a motion to approve the BPD design review specifically to make sure that the deck is no more than six feet and it's back and supported. Madam Chair. Yes. Pardon? Did we take testimony? No. We took. We took. We took. Okay. I'm sorry. That was premature. Okay, go ahead. Hi, Mr. Nielsen, you're on mute it. Hi, everyone. This is Pete Nielsen, the owner here. I just wanted to clarify on the. The. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So. Everybody. So. We're on mute it. This is Joseph can art the architect. I would like to know what this is taking far too much time. We have a motion on the table. Right. Let's have a second to that. Okay, second to miss the motion. Second. All right, some. Traver. Aye. Any opposed? Most carries. You're all set, but that provides a good luck. The last two cases of 930 calling B.O.A.109286616. Preble Street. There is a companion case B.O.A.10922818. Preble Street. This is for 16. displays, and Muller leaves the the side got as insufficient. An article 16, section one, the height is excessive. May I have an address for the record please? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway. It's a positive. Madam Chair, is my audio okay? It seems there's some audio issues today. Can I be heard from enough? I'll click. Very good, thank you. I represent the development of David Winnick and David Mateo. 16 and 18, Perville R2 rental buildings. 16 Perville is a nine unit building. 18 Perville is a six unit building. These two replications are to erect a private roof deck on the roof of each building. On 16 Perville, it would be approximately 13 feet by 16 feet. It would be for the exclusive use of an access to through unit seven of that building. And at 18 Perville Street, the roof deck is approximately 15 feet by 15 feet. It would be accessed by and for the exclusive use of unit five of that building. These buildings, each building has an existing headhouse. The access would run off of that headhouse. In the case of 18, there'd be a relocation of the stairs. And because there would be a new stairway connected, that gave rise to the FAR violations cited with respect to 18 Perville. Because the risers create a floor area even though they're only stairs. 18 also has a side yard violation. That relates to the side of the building that is connected to 16 Perville. It's 16 and 16. Mr. Ransink, hold on for a second. What these addresses before the board of appeal and the recent past are in the past. Yes, yes, the buildings were approved in 2015 and 2016, just about one year apart. My clients did one building, I believe they, I don't know the order, but they did one building and then the owner of the adjacent lot essentially saw the progress of that. And offered to sell them the next door parcel and they purchased that. And I was approved by this board about one year later. And were there any other appeals in the meantime? No, that's that's it. It was just the approval of both buildings. And did they come in originally with these with the roof decks and with the headhouses? No, there was no roof decks planned at the time because they were rental buildings. I believe that the community wanted to see evidence that the buildings were going to be well managed. This is in the Andrew Square neighborhood. And the head houses are existing. So let me ask you again for clarity. What were the head houses approved when we approved the project in 2015 and 2016? I don't recall, I looked at the decisions, there's no proviso for striking pentals or perhaps. I understand, but it might have been in the plans that there were no head houses at that time and the plans that were approved. I don't require a clarification on. I don't recall the both buildings went through BRA design review. They received BRA design review approval. 16 purple is building with an elevator. So it requires roof access just for anything to service the elevator override. 18 does not have an elevator, but it does have a penthouse. I don't, I didn't go back and look at my testimony or look at the 2015 or 2016 hearings. As I said, I did verify each decision that neither decision speaks to penthouses or roof decks. And neither one has a proviso but for the EPA design review. Okay. Okay. So the basically 16 purple has an elevator. And so may have has a penthouse for access to it. 18 purple does not have an elevator. And so it's likely that that head house was constructed. It's just constructed post structure and post approval by the, by the, by the BTA right now. China. Madam, she had this Jeff Hampton at the VPBA. I'm pulling up old plans that we have in our system and there's no reference to any sort of head house on their plans. I like to double check maybe double back on this, especially with the boards feeling about head houses. The plans I'm looking at right now show no head houses at all. So I like to double back to see if this indeed was done at the request of whoever may have done the design review at this point. I don't have plans that show head houses. Jeff, your plans enough that you're curious myself. You looking at the stamp design review approved plans. I'm looking at the ones that were submitted to the Board of Appeals. Data, October 27, 2014. Okay, but not that the BBA approved. But why would the question be becomes why would BPA approve 10 houses when they were or head houses when they were not in the plans? Exactly. In what? Madam, Madam Chair, I mean, it's one thing that is you point out. It's one thing to have a head house for an elevator because it serves a function. It's another thing to put a head house when there's no elevator nor a roof deck. It's absolutely no reason for it at all. And as you, I mean, the only reason would be as you pointed out in anticipation of later coming back to us for a head house. So I don't think we should go forward with this until Mr. Hampton can determine if they put the head house up in violation of anything that we approve for the BPA in an entire view. And I don't see why we should reward them with a roof deck. And I can talk to the issue is if we approve plans without head houses, exactly. And the BPD approved plans with head houses, they might have been exceeding their authority in doing that. Mr. Hampton seems indicated that they didn't. So I would make a motion for the furlough until this can be straightened out. But if it's, I've done it, I've done it right now. If the fact they built a head house without the approval, then there should be no reward for this. So may I have a motion for the furlough? So moved. Is there a second? No. Federal. Thank you, Tyrone. All those in favor? I have. And he opposed the date, please. Deceva, first at one o'clock. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, can you determine, can you make a certain nation about what was approved and what was it? I can try to get that answer from the board, hopefully before the hearings end today. Okay. Madam Chair, I'm going to call the 1130s for deferrals with draws. Can you please give me the address before you speak? I'm calling for deferrals for 1130 only in withdrawals. Are there any raised hands? James Christopher? Hi, yeah. Good morning, Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board. We'd like to request 11 Pacific Street. Okay, for the record, calling B-O-A-993-501-11 Pacific Street. Name and address for the record, please. My name is James Christopher with the business address of 415 to Ponson ad with a project direct attacks. At this time, we'll request a deferral to continue working through the community process with the abutters to make revisions to the proposed project. May I have a motion, please? Motion deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those for favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please? You have a date of December 1st at one o'clock. Thank you very much. Are there any other raised hands? I had raised my hands to the Attorney John Bet. It relates to 11 Pacific Street. I'd raised my hand, but Mr. Christopher addressed that already with the board. Thank you. Mr. Clark, I see no other raised hands. Thank you. I'm going to call the first cage for 1130. Oh yeah, just, sorry. Oh yeah. We have two minutes. I'm sorry. One minute. Oh. Mr. Mr. Fortuneyard and mute. I don't know if you intend to be on mute. No, Madam Chair. I didn't realize it was only 1128 when I asked for 1130. So my apologies. And Council just told me so. We're just waiting for the 1130 to show up. Or my clock at house. All right. I'm going by your clock. We're going to call the first case for 1130. I'm sorry. Yes, for 1130. Calling B.O.A. 1-0-0-3148-50-Lm Street. This is installation of a driveway and in the company curb cut for two parking spots. The Violage.10 section one. Limitation of our street parking. Not to be located more than five feet from the side lot line. Name and address for the record player. I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador is the applicant on the line. I don't see her on the line, but liaison for that. The liaison office has a raise in. I don't know if he has anything to tell us. If you don't mind, if I can unmute him. Please do. Quit. I don't know if anything to say. I'm just here to speak. From the point of view. Thanks. So tell us what your opinion is. What's your opinion on the line? Your office was an opposition to the proposal. We did hold a meeting late last year. A lot of people attended that meeting on the street. And we're opposed to this project as well. Specifically with the curb cut. Taking away resident parking, but the neighbor next door as well. The driveway was too close to his house. Okay. Okay. So let's thank you. Let's move on to the next case. Because it looks like the 1130 agenda isn't that long. Madam Chair, I will hold that case. Madam Chair, I will hold that case. I'll call the next one. Probably be away. 999-497-7 Smith Court. This is a constructive addition on the third floor for new family room and bathroom constructed new roof deck. The violation of Article 15, Section 15-1, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. An Article 20 section for the rear yard and the H districts. Name and address for the record please. I'm my name is Jeff Miller of 7 Smith Court. First, I have to check the budget. I'll check the business address of 1-40 straight. Berkeley, straight and awesome. Jeremy, you're kind of fading out. Can you please tell us what's being proposed? Sure, Jeff would like to make one initial statement if that would be okay. Let's please keep it brief. Yep, so my name is Jeff Miller. I'm the owner of 7 Smith Court together with my wife Amy. She's a women's cancer surgeon in Boston. At Mass General, we have two daughters, two and a half-year-old and eight-month-old. We're proposing a new room and bathroom to the roof of our home in place of a dilapidated roof deck that currently stands on the spot. To allow us to stay in the home neighborhood in wider city that we love. Today, we have letters of support from Craig and support. Okay, hold on, hold on. We will hear about your public process later on. Can we just go ahead with your proposal? Mr. Buck, please speak to that please. Yes, if we could go to the first slide there of the first drawing. It's a photograph actually. Just to give some context for this. This is the house there with the American flag. It's the 7 Smith Court next to it is number five, which is a three-story building. And then beyond is a four-story building that fronts on South Phillips Street. A color, color, please. Could you back up to the, to the view, the street view? Yep, this is. Okay, this is the plot plan of the property. So we didn't want to do the count on these two kids. It is a 548 square foot lock. It's quite small. Yeah, okay, so, okay, so we see the African meeting house. We feel the marble building at this once to match the marble building. You know, it will, but it's set back. So you can see there's a mock-up there that we've done for the neighbors, some yellow table. That would be the roof line. So it's set back six feet from the existing front wall of the house. And is this historic district? Yes, it is. We're in the Beacon Hill historic district. And has Beacon Hill looked at it yet? No, they asked us to get a zoning first. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Olyck? Um, the drawings are okay. Mr. Burke, the usual set of questions. What's the basement high floor ceiling? That's an existing basement that's at seven feet. Okay. But the extension is proposed for the for the top floor. That's correct. You can see it's going to be, um, it'll have a eight foot ceiling at the top floor. Okay, and the roof deck and looks like it's being accessed by hatch, correct? Well, there, there is a, uh, we show the existing plans now. There's a roof deck there now through a hatch with a lattice around it. And we're proposing to remove all that. We originally proposed to roof deck at the rear. You can see on the lower left drawing of the proposed elevations. But working with the neighbors, we agreed to remove that deck. And that's where we have an eight foot rear setback. 10 feet is required in this neighborhood. This size locked. And, and, and, and how is it access? Well, the, uh, deck that you see in the drawing is on the neighbors house at number five, Smith court. And I want to show that our, our addition is no higher than their existing deck. And we have agreed not to ask for a deck. And, you know, when working with that neighbor. So they are one of the owners of five Smith court that room house, um, are one of our letters of support. Thank you. Okay, but you still have to ask my question. The access to the deck. There'll be no deck on our building. The railing you see there is the neighbor's deck. Oh, okay. Okay, I'm sorry. Okay. And is that as access through a hatch? Got it. Got it. No, no. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? When? I think this would be Shanice. Oh, yeah. Quinlan has his hand raised. Anybody just speak and support? Madam Chair, the secretary here. We have about 30 letters of support, about 10 letters of opposition. Okay. Um, may I help anybody in support? I have one raised two couple of members. Madam Chair. Long time you're here. My name is Lauren Sherman. Um, I actually would like to speak within uh, uh, as an voice of opposition. So let me know if this is a good time or I should Yes, please go ahead to put your name and address on the rocket. Yes. My name is Lauren Sherman. I'm the owner of 38 South Russell Street, apartment number three. I am a direct about our two the building, uh, across the alleyway from seven Smith court. My husband, Peter, Sauer and I, uh, are in strong opposition of the variance and exception request for the property. We oppose this, uh, request for the following four reasons. First, the construction of the third floor will significantly block the natural light and air coming into our apartment from the Smith court side of our building. We live on the second floor. Talk on the other eight South Russell Street. Excuse me. Can you please not read to us, but just highlight your points for us, your four points. So the first one was a light light space. What's the second point? Our team is going to substantially change the views from our apartment. We live, you know, on the second floor and all of our back windows from our bedrooms and bathrooms look out onto seven Smith court into the, into the road and the construction of the third floor, where you have the, um, where they're changing the lattice structure of the roof deck and then proposing to put up solid walls is going to, you know, significantly block and change our views. The third is that I feel by allowing the variance for the, for the property. It's the smartest is going to simply set up precedent for the neighborhood. You know, these owning laws in my opinion are meant to protect our community and, you know, to set up precedent for the rest of the neighborhood of other types of invasive, you know, expansion project. That will be detrimental to the directive butters. And finally, I really believe that the noise and air pollution that's going to be caused by this construction is going to have a lot of destruction for my family, similarly to the owners of seventh and fourth. I also have two small children, two toddlers of school age. And I'm concerned about maintaining the privacy. So I respectfully ask this forward to oppose this. And I think that it's important to take into consideration the strong opposition that the, the people within three, that's the street as direct a butters have to this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak and support our in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, she needs to come to the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This proposal went through an extensive community process. And has received a ton of letters of support including from direct the butters and the museum. However, at the time we could not go on record and support, they did, they were opposed by the Peac and Health Civic Association as well as many direct butters have submitted very detailed letters of opposition. We just feel that the community process should continue at this time. So the mayor's office would like to do our work in opposition. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Akal DeRong, from the Council of Flings office. The councilor would like to go on record opposition to this proposal at this moment. There was a good discussion and dialogue between the proponent and a butters, but at this time we're not able to support the proposal to do a overwhelming opposition. We also received a letter of opposition from the big concrete neighborhood association. Thank you. Madam Chair, go ahead. I have a couple of my hands. Let's go for it. Gerard. Hi, can you hear me, Elkette? Yes, please go ahead. Yep, I'm Jared Cole. I love Unvegan Hill, pretty nearby. A few streets over. What is your place? What is your place? It is a four good one place. And I want to speak in support of the project. Just to simply say that I do think that we need to have a smart and assistant plans to kind of be able to do small changes like this. I know that it affects direct butters in certain ways. And I'm sure it will change the view from their windows and things like that. But at the same time, you know, a part of the city and being able to keep a dynamic city in a crazy world like today, I think we have to be able to adapt to change. And we have to understand that the city won't stay the same in order to thrive and be connected to the vibrant community. So that's why I would like to strongly support it. Thank you. Anybody else to speak? Hello? Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. I'm Rob Whitney. I live at 17 Phillips Street. I am the chair of the Board of Directors of the Peakin Hill Civic Association. Our 23-member board voted unanimously in opposition to this proposal. We are strongly opposed both because it will irreverably harm and damage an important wooden house at number seven Smith Court that's over 200 years old but also because the vast majority of immediate butters to seven Smith Court have opposed this proposed addition as it is directly detrimental to their enjoyment of their properties. I wanted to also note that the Boston Preservation Alliance specifically submitted a letter in opposition to this plan as has the National Park Service which is the administrator of the African, not Boston African American National Historic Site of which number seven Smith Court is an integral part in their opposition letter which the board has. They express their great concern about these alterations and if the changes to the property had the potential to adversely affect the overall integrity of the Smith Court Land Street Skate. This home is over 200 years old. It's one of the few remaining wooden houses on Beacon Hill. It directly abuts as you saw from the picture. The African Museum of African American History. It's significance to the history of black Americans. Thank you. Thank you. I cannot be under as much as I'm a master. Mr. Whitney, we're done. Anybody else to speak? Given this information, may I have a motion to this? We look excuse me. We're just using that. Please take a moment to rub out. I'm just receiving messages from a number of our supporters who say they are trying to speak and not being able to. So tell them to put in much information in the chat that they should just put information in the chat because we and have it go to everybody because we do see that. Okay. Thanks. So in the meantime, may I have a motion please? Can I just say just before the motion, just as a point of fact, the only public vote ever taken at the Beacon Hill Civic Association's own zoning and licensing committee was about respectively in favor of our project. Everything else that has emerged from the Civic Association's executive board was in contravention and behind the back of that body's own vote. And I think the board, of course, today really needs to understand that that from the nature of this process. And that is also what does it take here? Excuse me. I'm here. I just want to on behalf of the Civic Association's executive committee. I want everybody muted please. Everybody. Okay. Okay. So I would just ask Mr. Book, what is the total square foot of that edition? Can you? Yes. It is a 307 square feet. It's 307 square feet and it's set back from the front of the building. Okay. You can't. Okay. Okay. So given that information, given all the discussion, may I have a motion on this project? I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. I think there's an opportunity to come up with a solution that can satisfy all parties. Second panel. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Please. So we will. So that is the decision. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-9-9-2-8-4-9-1-90-Kell-E-Meth Street. Kell-E-Meth Street. This is the extend living space for Unit 1 into a portion of the basement. The violation is Article 59 Section 8. Splew to your ratio is excessive. I need an address. Full the record please. My name is Timothy Burke. My address is 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. We are protected for the project and with us today is also the owner of the house, Sean. So how many units in this building and it looks like it's extension of living space into the basement. Tell us what is going to be the use of basement space. Is it a bedroom? Is it a toilet? Not the floor to ceiling height. Also, let us know whether the utilities are going to be in a separate space. Thank you. The this you see in front of you the existing plans and then the next sheet goes the proposed plans. They are proposing to have two bedrooms at a to the basement. It's a two family building now and it will remain a two family. So each unit would have four bedrooms. The mechanical services for each unit are directly accessed. The unit 2 is from the rear door there. You can see a set of steps on a mechanical room for unit 2. And then the unit 1, the mechanicals are within their unit. And what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? It will be a finished ceiling of seven foot six inches. Okay, and are these condos? No, these are rental units. Okay. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Oleg? The plans are adequate. The violation. Any questions on the board? Mr. Bar can you speak to the violation? Yes, the violation is for FAR. It's the one that we are exceeding due to the additional space in the basement. The it's a .7 FAR for this district and the upper level is at .6.9. It's precious us to I believe it was .8.3. I don't have that exact number in front of me. It is on the plans here. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, she needs to put in tell with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This proposal was opposed by the Mission Hill neighborhood housing services and the community alliance of Mission Hill. However, the applicant has submitted about 11 letters of support and direct letters. We feel that this minor change or interior renovation is not enough to oppose this proposal and we would like to go on record in support at this time. Thank you. Anybody else speak on this project? Any other raised hands? No madam part. Okay. So the question becomes and the question becomes should we be allowing these bedrooms in the basement? They're not they're not they're not forbidden but they do increase the density in the neighborhood and so and these are rentals they're in Mission Hill. Who have they been rented to in the past? The owner only rents to young professionals or graduate students. They've told the community that they will not be rented to either graduates tend to be more than problem of noise and disruption. I don't think there have been any problems with you know the existing residents of the house. Also the basement has actually fairly good windows because of the drop off of the grade especially the back room would have a very good size window. Okay, given this information may I have a motion please? Yes, I can I just ask the question Mr. Park or we can so each of these units will have four bedrooms now? Yes, that is correct. And they'll be you you can probably you've been counting on the faculty before on related people right? I'm not sure the experience I don't know if the owner Sean is on to speak to that. That's very likely if it's been rented to professionals. Yeah, it could be it could be more you know it could be more than four unrelated but yeah so we have motion. Yes, I guess the make a motion to approve but someone reluctantly. Okay, and Sarah second to that. I'll second that motion. The secretary. All those in favor? Aye. Any any opposed? May I hear a voice voice voices from their remaining three members? I was muted in favor. In favor. Okay, everybody else in part? Yes. Everybody's in support. The of the motion. Okay, I will go in on record in opposition to the motion. It's because of the entity issue but the motion carries it's been approved so good luck. Thank you very much. Calling in next case. Calling BOA 978 496 95 to 99 free port street. This is proposed to change our concerns who include ten apartments. The violation doticle 65 section 21, a multi-family residential unit is the forbidden use in its zoning sub-district. Name and address for the record please. Good evening Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Derek Small. I have a business address for the ones up to the road and bring to you mass. Yes. For the record Madam Chair, the purpose was stated wrong. It's for six residential units and not ten. Okay. The doc changed your violation in any way? Not at all. Okay. Okay, so we're here today sticking to change the occupancy of the building to include six residential units. The zoning sub district is light industrial and the one violation is that the residential units are a forbidden use in the top district. The six units will be in the weir on the second floor and they range in size from 370 square feet to 700 and that 90 square feet. We have two studios and four and one bedroom one-back unit. Two studios and how many one bedroom one bath? Four. Four and six units. So I'm looking at this on so the building is at the is is it because it's an L-shaped building. Does it have a frontage on Kimball Street? The frontage is on the front street but it does have a frontage on Kimball Street as well as that is the entrance for the beauty school. Okay. On the first floor. And so on free-port street, so tell us what's happening on the building that is on Kimball Street. The Kimball Street side. Let me just pull it up here if you have it. The Kimball Street side encompasses the first floor. It encompasses the beauty school. There is a air beauty school. There on the first floor is also an adult daycare on the first floor as well. On the first and second floor and there's a restaurant on part of the first floor as well. And are there any occupancy on the upper floors? Yes, the beauty school encompasses part of the second floor in the front and in the rear as we are proposing to put the residential units. Okay. And that is six resident units. Okay. That is correct. That is correct. I'm promise what's already there on the frontage on free-port street. That is the part on free-port street is part of the parking lot. And we have 29 parking spaces total for the building. So the frontage on free-port is just an open parking lot. That is correct. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I can see it. I see it. Okay. So Mr. I like how the plans. Not too good. If you look at the elevations on A2, you really don't get a sense of it's very little detail. There's really unclear what the building is going to look like. It's really hard to make any determination. And then but I'm more concerned about the size of the units. Mr. Small, could you walk us through you said from the smallest to the largest? Could you say would say what each unit size is going to be? At addition, just so that we have clarification if the host can let my phone in, because he is the architect that I know he's on the line as well. Yes, let's go. Okay. I hear you. I need it. Good morning. My name is my phone at 204 Adams Street, Dorchester Mass 02122 for the record. This is six units total and the smallest units would be 340. That's a studio and 3. That's the second unit. That's a studio. And the one bedroom should be 740, 759, 580 and 798. I'm sorry. So what did you say 580? Yes, 580. The unit number six. Okay. And one studio was 340. What was the other studio? That the other is a 370 square feet. He's a very small unit. Yeah. Mr. Funk, could you have any better drawings of the elevations than what they're showing on A2? Yes, we did a renovation for the whole entire building for the beauty school. And the daycare center on the first floor. On the first floor. We didn't submit that because we thought that it did need to. But we do have the drawings. The whole entire building. I wish you would just minute them with this opportunity. I'm sorry. I said, I wish you had submitted them with this application. It's frustrating. So just to be clear, the lot is an outshaved lot that goes from three-board over to Kimball. And this is for the building that is has the, may have a three-board address, but it faces Kimball. That is correct. The function. And the, I don't think so. So, so if you have all this space, you know, I think there's opportunity for you to have some quality units in there, rather than these, you know, very, very small units. Did you, did you explore any other options for this property? Before the application, the application originally, we apply for 10 units. I think if you apply for 10 units, all these one bedrooms would have been 300 square feet. I'll do it, you know. And so this is a slightly better solution, but we are looking for an even better solution. We got the number of units was reduced due to meetings with the community and the butter meetings and the meeting with the community group. And so that's why it ended up at six and not 10. And both of which have supported support, support the project. I mean, does this project have merit? I'm asking the board. You know, I mean, this is the standard for the DND and BPDA on minimum size for studios is 500 square feet, unless it's compact living units. But if it's compact living units, you're supposed to have all the other amenities to go with it, which is where we're not in there. Any more motion for denial with denial because we don't want to see this configuration again, we need to see something that's different. So may I have a motion for denial? So now, can we please just a review and allow our prejudice that we give us a chance to come back? You can come back, but not with this drawing, because you can do that. Just don't want to see this, okay? So then if that would our prejudice will allow us to come back on after we change the plan. A denial without prejudice will let you come back with this plan within a year. I want a straight denial so we don't see this plan again. I made a motion for straight denial. Is there a significant all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling your next case. Calling VOA 1019761 21 Fenton Street. This is the bill day two family. The violation of Article 65, Section 9. The lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the floor of the area ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the bill and how is excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the usable open spaces insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 65, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Yes, please. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Is the applicant here for Canton Street? No. I only have one raise hand but he's he's he's there is right here and raised for last hour Okay, we'll hold that one to the side The lawnsdale. Yes, Madam Chair. I'm gonna call lawnsdale into the record calling B.O.A. 981 I'm gonna call I'm gonna call lawnsdale street now case B.O.A. 981052 31 lawnsdale street This is the construction of a new unit on the third floor the violation is article 65 section 41 Ostipioking loading is insufficient article 65 section 8 User regulations the third unit per legal equity never was built article 65 section 9 lot of areas insufficient Article 65 section 9 the Flood Air ratio is excessive Article 65 section 9 the bill and how is excessive in stories Article 65 section 9 the front yard is insufficient and Article 65 section 9 the side yard is insufficient name and address for the record place After new amount of chair members of board attorney Derek small business address of 50 long times as well for a tree mask We are here today seeking to change the legal occupancy of the building from a two family dwelling We three family dwelling I'm erecting a third story edition The zoning suggestion stop district is a two-part five thousand A lot sizes of bus to me the 3600 square feet Madam chair, this was approved five four two years ago And then the Time to pull the permit expired and the opponent didn't have a chance to do that The violations are Lot area 5,000 3600 square feet FAR requirement is point five We are proposing 1.8 The building height Two and a half stories 35 feet we're at three stories, but we are at 33 feet So we are below the high requirement with regard to the number of feet Requirement is 15 feet and we're at a modal setting as the Existing and that's a preexisting non-conforming violation and the side yard stepbacks are Requirement minutes check and feet we have five And we have 12 feet on the side with driveway is Um an exand that's existing preexisting not for And so the plans have not changed since we approved it then Um, I don't think they they have I think mine did the uh my is the architect on this one as well So I think he could shut him in on that Um with regard to the plans from before and these It did go through a design review No, it never made it that far okay With the design review but the all are never acted on the approval and then it lapsed Okay Tell us the unit the size of the the proposed unit The proposed unit is approximately 851 square feet Okay, how are the plans Mr. Ehrlich? Don't you have any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Adam chair to the board Haley down speaking in um in place of Patrick and uh the mayor's liaison like to go make it in support. Thank you Madam chair jelmy gackeren city council frame break his office. We'd like to go on reckoning support Thank you Anybody to speak in opposition May I have a motion please Motion to approve. I don't think there's a need for design of you mr. Hinton you Uh Mr. Ehrlich I agree Okay, okay, I get the title Okay, all those in favor And the opposed motion carries Mr Secretary I understand that fenton street is now on so can we go to fenton I will madem chair For the record calling B.O.A. 101 9761 21 fenton street This is a bill day two family the violation of article 65 section nine and a lot of areas insufficient article 65 section nine the fluid air ratio is excessive article 65 section nine the bill of the height is excessive in stories article 65 section nine the usable open space is insufficient article 65 section nine the front yard is insufficient and article 65 section nine the side yard is insufficient name and address for the record please 21 fenton street Your name again. I'm sorry we missed it. Uh-huh win Okay, so tell us what you're proposing to do Uh, well, I live a 23 fenton street. Um, I'm proposing a two family so we can stand over could you need room for a family? Okay, is this going to be a prefab or are you bringing building it from scratch? Building it from scratch ma'am Okay, um, tell us the size unit Um, I have Mr. Maifeng the architect um, the tell me with this Okay, thank you. Ma'ay You're welcome. Ma'ay are you on? Ma'ay are you on mute this morning? Um, can you hear me? Yeah. Okay, good morning. My name is Maifeng at 204 Adam Street, you are just a math 02122 for a record. Um, yes, it is going to be a, uh, proposal to families um, you know, the, uh, the requirement is 2,000 and a lot size of 3200. Um, so ma'ay, just, you know, this is what strikes me immediately that this is new construction and you're already proposing basement living space. This is not something we have kind of thrilled about at all. Um, yes, we've probably done that in the past as well. If, uh, you know, the, uh, basement is not the, um, you don't like the basement. We can't re-arrange into bedroom. It's going to be upstairs and the, uh, the, uh, some of the family rooms are down the basement and no bedroom in the basement. We have no problem with that. Okay, um, tell us about the parking. How is the parking going to work? Um, did the two off-speed parking that will be in the room? The building and I believe the last time that, you know, we, um, um, um, the architects of the board have asked for the, um, easement of the, uh, the property in the lab, the, the lab, which is 23-hundreds, that's where the only occupies well, you know, all this while too. Uh, we submitted the, uh, the site name with the easement, uh, ready to be sorted. It is approved over the board. Okay, um, any, um, how are the plans, Mr. Oh, like, any questions from the board? Is anybody here just speaking support of this proposal? Anybody from the mayor's office? Madam Chair, we will be able to miss, but George, uh, when should be on? Okay, um, can I, can I hear just from anybody who, uh, who wants to go on the right, could either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, this is Joe McGeckon with City Council of Frank Baker's office. Um, we are, um, opposed to this project. And we'd like to go and recognize such. Thank you. What's your opposition based on, uh, Joe? It's regarding the deed restriction. A deed restriction that is associated with this property. Is, uh, can you clarify? So I believe it was one of those lots that, uh, was sold to the butter. And, um, the council has instructed me to, um, oppose the project. It's on hat. It was a deed restricted lot. We believe so it was restricted to either, uh, parking or, uh, to open space. Is that what it was? I believe so I don't know exactly, Madam Chair, but it did have, that was one of the requirements or one of the restrictions when it was given to the, um, the owner. So thank you. Thank you. Anybody else in an opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. It's in board. Uh, the maintenance is George Quinn from the mayor's office. We would like to go on records in opposition of this proposal. Um, it is deed restricted by D&D. Thank you. Anybody else? Um, may I have something from, um, the applicant? Um, I, can you clarify just the, is the applicant aware of this fact? Um, hi, ma'am. How are you? Um, yes, ma'am. Um, I spoke with Jim McDonald from, um, out, out at the city. Jim McDonald has told me that if I get support from the neighborhood, um, association, they're going to lift the deed for me. If I give one unit up for, um, housing. So that's why I went for it. Okay, I think we have an issue here. We have nothing more documentation to that fact. And I think that is important to the representative from the mayor's office and to the city councilor. That's the first thing is that we need documentation. And second, I think that the part that's important, if it's new construction, that, you know, we have to, um, it's okay to have people have bedrooms in the basement. Those will become an issue at some point. Um, so I think, um, may I have a motion for denial without prejudice, but that the applicant can do the stuff that he needs to get done to bring a multiple project to us. So move. Is there a second? Second. Opposed and Traver? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I'm going to go back to the first case in Elm Street because I'm going to be recusing myself on Chestnut Hill. Chestnut Hill Street. So I'm going to go back to the first case, which was called, case BOA 1003148 50 Elm Street. So master is the applicant here for 50 Elm. Madam Chair, I see no raised hands. I do not, let me just trouble chair for one second. Yes. And I do not see Kristen on the line. Madam Chair, I make a motion for denial without prejudice. Clacken. All those in Traver? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I'm going to be recusing myself for the next two cases. Mr. Mr. Mr. Do you want to go to the right? But you will read them into the racket before you recuse. That's actually a pleasure. I can do that. Yes, please because it's a situation today. Okay, I will do that. Case BOA, calling next two cases for 1130, case BOA 98105231. I'm sorry. BOA 1047724130 Chestnut Hill Ab. And it's a companion case BOA 1051356132 Chestnut Hill Ab. This is for 130. This is demolition of 64, washing, housing, authority units, the J.J. Carroll Apomans, and new construction of approximately 144 apartments, approximately 11,000 square feet for a pay center, medical clinic, ground floor, common space, and neighborhood, orientated, retail. The violation is article 51 section eight. A multi unit dwelling uses the the the new medical 51 section 8 retail uses the bed news. article 51 section 8. A medical clinic used use is a forbid news article 51 section 9. The fluoride ratio is excessive, article 51 section 9. The height requirement is excessive in stories. article 51 section 9 the height requirement is excessive in feet article 51 section 9. The front yard setback The bill is in sufficient. Article 51, section 9. The radiated setback requirement is in sufficient. In Article 51, section 9, the side-yard setback requirement is in sufficient. The bridge crossover. This is for 132 Chestnut Hill. This proposed development of 130 Chestnut Hill have, including the closed pedestrian bridge to an adjacent existing building at 132 Chestnut Hill. The one 30 Chestnut Hill has permit. It has a permit application. The violation of Article 9, section 1, extensive and nonconforming use is conditional. In Article 51, section 9, the dimensional regulation, the side-yard setback requirement is in sufficient for the bridge crossover. I am in address for the record, please. Madam Chair, I will be recusing myself. Thank you. Before the applicants put their name and address on the record, I need to inform you that with the recusal of Mr. Fortune, you will have a five-member board sitting, which means that every member needs to be in support of this project for it to pass. Your options are one to go ahead with a five-member board, two to defer to a date where we have more than five members. So what is your pleasure? Madam Chair, this is Rachel Belanger representing two-life communities. We choose to go ahead with the five-member board present today. Okay. Please then put your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Thank you. This is Rachel Belanger of two-life communities were located at 30 Wallingford Road in Brighton. I am joined by team members from two-life, Elizabeth Hire and Zoe Weinrobe, Boston Housing Authority, Caitlin McGonacol and Dana Doherth, Vast Design Group, our architect, John Evans, Stanttec, landscape and civil, Chris Fee, as well as Klein Hornig, our attorney, Joe Lieber. The first two-life sponsor were a nonprofit affordable housing provider. We've been in Brighton for over 50 years and we have about 760 apartments in the adjacent properties. The JJ Carroll redevelopment that we're proposing today at Win30 Chestnut Hill App is in partnership with the Boston Housing Authority. This project has already received unanimous support through Article 80, the Public Improvements Commission, Boston Civic Design Commission. I just, you can use your time truthfully and tell us about the development, the proposal. The JJ Carroll redevelopment replaces the 64 Boston Housing Authority apartments, which are outdated and inaccessible with 142 apartments. All of those will be affordable to William Households. The relief that we're seeking today is both for the use, multifamily housing, the clinic and retail and dimensional relief to build these 142 affordable apartments. The building will be between five and six stories. That's the view from Chestnut Hill App. So, Carol was for elderly residents. Will all these 142 units be for elderly or will it be a combination? The current properties has 13 apartments that are for households with disabilities with a priority for the elderly or sorry with the priority for those who are below 62. The rest are reserved for the elderly. So all the new apartments will be for the elderly except for 13, which will have that same requirement for those with disabilities and some under 62. Yes. Does that mean that formerly homeless people could not could use these units than one of these 13 units? Yes. Formerly homeless people who are disabled and under 62 may qualify for the 13 apartments. The remainder of the apartments will also serve could serve formerly homeless individuals through various preferences and priorities that will be part of the affordable housing restriction for the building. Okay. And so this you said was five to six stories. What's the zoning district? One at five thousand. So this is one at five thousand. And tell us about that retail use because it feels like the retail use that's there. But just a little bit further down the street. I'm not sure that it's always been a capacity. Will this help the situation or will it just increase increase the retail use on that street? Sure. So the space we have proposed is about one thousand square feet. It's in the ground floor, which we envisioned as a publicly accessible village center. So in addition to the health care use, there will be a number of spaces with that entire ground floor serving as a community space. So the retail use that we envision, we don't have a tenant on a lease yet, is to have a small sort of convenience store with fresh foods. And that would be a great interest to residents will have about 900 apartments on the site. So the combined two life properties after this project is complete. So over a thousand residents who would be built customers for that use. And we would welcome others in the neighborhood to use it. So we're confident that there's adequate demand in the community. Medical Clint uses also for big news is the medical clinic open to the community or is it purely for the residents of two life either here or in Wallingford? It will be open to the broader community. So the police is different from other medical clinics and that it's a kind of membership program that's an insurance products and day center space where folks can come for primary care. So we imagine that many of our residents will become peace participants, but outside community members who are eligible for peace would have the option to enroll as well. So those participants would come to the day center at very specific times around 9, 30, 10 a.m. and leave mid afternoon with a drop off. So it's a very structured program rather than in compared to other clinics where people come and go for appointments throughout the day. So I just ask you how is the parking working on this site? Because it's I know because it's affordable housing the parking ratio is different. So tell us how many parking spaces you are proposing. We're proposing 70 parking spaces on the site. And for our existing residents in Brighton, in recent years about one in six apartments has requested a parking permit. So we're confident in that number to serve the residents. And how about the parking required for the pay center? How many staff or for the commercial use? 20 of the 70 spaces are intended for the peace use the clinic. And will there be any synergy between this center and the project on Wallingford Road? Absolutely. So two life has four existing properties. You went house at 30 Wallingford, 11th all house at 40 Wallingford, and one third at 38 Wallingford and one third at 132 Chestnut Hill. And all of those properties are connected internally. Residents can walk between them. We have a really vast array of programs and services. And staff who support our residents who are based on site. And this new building will be connected to all of that both physically through the bridge to one brick house, which then has a bridge to one of the house. And we have a lot of access things without going out. Sorry. In terms of the overall operations and property management, it will be fully integrated as well. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. O'Leak? That drawings are fine. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support with this proposal? Yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Of course, it's encounters, from you at the end but I need to make sure I'm here from the City Council's office, the Brighton Alps and Brighton City Council's office. Is anybody here at the Fairbank Office? Madam Chair, this is Councillor Liz Bredden from District 9. Go on record in the supporting of this project. It will really provide some vital needs subsidized housing for seniors in our community. I'm also very excited about the addition of this 11,000 square foot pierced centre which will provide medical support for senior residents of the neighbourhood but also the two-life community to line with you to lift community. I also support the addition of the pedestrian walkway which will provide access to a bit of the building on-site. Thank you for your consideration. I support this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's Kevin O'Connor here. In Mr. Fortun's absence, I wanted to let you know that there are eight letters of support and one letter of opposition. Eight support in one opposition. Thank you. Anybody else to speak either and support our in opposition? Is anybody here at the B.A.I.S.? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Karen Foley, Boston City Council and East Ruse Happy Jewelry's office and would like to echo these sentiments of Consul Brayden in support of this project. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, the meeting with the Mayor's office, not sure if the B.A.I.S. is on but the applicant did go out before the Brighton Austin improvement association and did receive support in that civic association. Sorry. Thank you. I'm Miss Ambassador. Any more raised hands? Yes, Madam Chair. Stephen, come here. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Stephen Dunnevin. I'm a housing development officer with the City of Boston Department of Neighborhood Development or D&D. D&D is providing funding to this project and on behalf of D&D, I would like to state our support for the project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, looks like we've covered everybody. Just one last question, Rachel. What are the units? I quote the breakdown. The breakdown in terms of unit type is 118 one bedrooms and 24 two bedrooms. The unit sizes are consistent with state requirements for unit size. One bedrooms are between 660 square feet and two bedrooms are between 800 and 800. And so between 800 and more. Okay, and I just want clarification. So all of these 142 units, minus to 13, they will be opened for affordable housing generally or will they be open to people on the BH is list. It'll be a combination. There will be 114 apartments that will have project based vouchers through the BHA. Those will serve first and foremost to the current GJ Co residents who have a right to return and have also been engaged extensively in this process. After that, the priorities and the BHA's administrative plan will take into those include people with homelessness and those displaced from other properties. There's 27 apartments that do not have the project based assistance and those will for those will hold a lottery in partnership with the city. Would you have to have an open application process for those? Okay, thank you. May I have motion please? Motion to approve of BBBA design review. Second. All those to favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. It is now 1230. We will have about half hour break and return at 1 o'clock. Every applicant who is interested in a deferral or withdrawal, please let Mr. Bassett know so we can be efficient about calling you up in sequence. Thank you. So I'm just going to do a quick roll call. Mr. Fortune. Here, Madam. Mr. Arleck. Mr. Cudell. Mr. Cudell. Mr. Daveau. Mr. Locke. Here. Are you sure Mr. Cudell? Mr. Cudell here? We'll see. Please go out there. Mr. Headhake heard their name I'm a request this name. Mr. Toddson. Now the Cudell isfore. Amoling me有沒有äла to give me the address 37 Beach. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chairwoman, members of the Board, Richard, lens 245 Summars Street East Boston. I'm here on behalf of the position I'm requesting a deferral of the matter that's on for 1 p.m. Excellent and note what's the reason for that? I believe there's still ongoing conversations with affected parties and interest relative to this proposal. I know there was some efforts to do that but code that's limited that somewhat. So we're asking for a brief deferral so we can complete those conversations. Okay, may I have a motion? Please. Motion to defer. Is there a second? I'll second a motion. All those in favor. Aye. What's the date? Please. We have a date of December 8th. December 8th at 1 o'clock? At 1 o'clock at December 8th. Thank you. Thank you Madam Chair. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1 o'clock? 59a Strathmore Road, please. Will the Reckier calling B.O.A. 101411259a Strathmore Road. Name and address for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the Board. Dr. Ago with the address of 15 Broad Street representing the petitioner. We are seeking a deferral on the matter. The mayor's office as well as the city councilor received some last minute calls over the last few days with concerns from a butters in the rare of the property. Some of the buildings in the back that would like us to go back and have another meeting. Obviously, COVID has made that more difficult, but I think a short deferral could get us there relatively quickly. May I have a motion please? Motion to defer. Second. Second. All right. Aye. Any opposed? The date please? We have a date of December 8th at 1 o'clock. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1 o'clock? Okay, let's go. Call in the first two cases 1 o'clock calling B.O.A. 1 1 0 0 0 9 7 3 O. Curse Street. There is a companion case B.O.A. 1 1 0 0 1 0 7 5 O. Curse Street. This is the 3 O. Curse Street. Does it erect a new 3 story 3 family dwelling by a late article 60 section 9, insufficient lot size. I have a 60 section 9, insufficient lot, insufficient additional lot area. Article 60 section 9 excessive FAR. To meet this. Yeah. Article 60 section 9, insufficient front yard setback. You know that this guy about. Article. Can we meet please? Doctors come you either Webster. Article 60 section 9 is sufficient. Ray add setback. Article 60 section 9 is sufficient side. Add setback. Article 60 section 9 is sufficient open space per unit. This is for. Five O. Curse. Directed to three story dwelling. Three family dwelling. The violations are the same. Name and address for the record please. I have not listed the stake. I can't get an answer. That was奶. Never alluded to that for work. I've done both but it's almost a flyray better healing. Thank you. Sorry to find who. Is yeah. Thank you. Hey, I'm sure your work. Yeah yeah no. Okay, Let's or head. Name an ad you ask for the record, please. We have to do a matter of chair members no board attorney Derek small I have a business address of two dogs in the world where two men also needed I could check our exact words that it's going to need to be unmuted for this as well. Manager we're here seeking relief directly family dwelling on each of those lots. The zoning subject top district is three out five thousand and we have approximately three six hundred square feet of piece we have ten parking spaces which will be under cantilever and I'm at the architect going to more detail about that. The zoning violations are as follows FAR required FAR is point eight we are proposing one point four from yod setback is 15 feet we have we're proposing five and it's in line with some of the other buildings on the street so yod setback is 10 feet we're proposing six rear yard setback requirement is 30 we're proposing 10 and so I'll turn over to our exact person who is the architect of the project and he can go go through the site plan and go through floor plans. Iecia can we unmute our exact person thank you he's unmuted okay thank you can you hear me? I'm addressing the record and tell us what's being proposed yes my name is there exacter send the architect of the project I address is one load low street in Charlestown as Derek was describing the project is two separate buildings on three and five occurs each of which has a first floor unit a second floor unit a third floor unit each side or each building has five parking spaces three of which are covered under the building and two which are tandem behind the end of the tests the army bedrooms each each unit has and the square footage okay the first floor unit in both buildings is a two bedroom one bathroom that is 825 square feet the second and third floors are three bedroom two bath with 14 unit 1400 square feet on both buildings so we have four units that are three bedroom two bath and two bedroom two units that are two bedroom one bath if you think of it as a whole as one whole project okay now Collette can you please continue going down so we can see what do you have a rendering of this building can you tell us what she's she that's on I don't know if you have the the rendering of it we have a couple of them that we presented the name for the associate yeah they're on the cover here and you see there's quite a bit of discussion to try and bring in a slope roof a bay window to try and evoke the similar a frames that and tables that we see up and down this side of Oak Street and how is the parking supposed to work is there a shared driveway between the two buildings down the center of the project and will will that be registered at the registry yes yes and this is stick belt yes to first how are the plans Mr. Oleg I'm assuming there's no residence in the basement no there is no there okay oh it's just slab okay is anybody here to speak in support of this for the soil I'm chairman does it the boy can you hear me yes please go add this is what niece last central mayor's office of neighborhood services I did hold in a better's meeting for this proposal and this proposal had also had multiple presentations with the with your after-the-the-the-the-association and that association has sent a letter after discussion and back in for with the proponent they've sent a letter and support the office of neighborhood services is going on record and support thank you thank you madam chair members of the board called Jean Lewis on behalf of city council on Jay Campbell we'd like to go on record it's the board thank you mr. master any raise plans yes hold on one second call muted I will say that this one thank you thank you the other right hand madam chair is having tactical difficulties I do not believe he is wants to comment on this case however okay may have a motion please motion to approve bpda the sound of you thank you is there a second thank you tyrone all those in favor hi hi any opposed motion carries thank you madam chair members they won't have a good day you too calling a next case calling b08107 9502 5 gleason street this is a change of October from a two family to a three family dwelling by adding an addition and constructing four new bedrooms on an existing house footprint one new bathroom made new windows violation is article 60 section 40 on three pachnes insufficient an article 60 section 9 the rea is insufficient name and address full the record please colla you are muted we're after the madam chair and members of the board please speak up tell us what you're proposing to do we're proposing to convert two families or three families in the original footprint of the house that are five feet and three we have to the third base plan and we have adequate parking of six off she parking step back from the this and adjacent property about 15C we have 135 seats so tell us tell us where you're anticipating having that unit under on the third floor on the on the third floor we cut off the roof and because of leveraged space we're going to really vertically go on to have adequate headroom okay okay and what's this post square footage of that unit the post square stood up to you it's about 1400 seats out of the school and yeah a hungry bedrooms three bedrooms madam chair okay thank you how are the plans mr. Oleg adequate okay um any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal good afternoon madam chair members of the board my mission telling the barbosa with the mayor's office that neighborhood set with since and a better meeting was hosted on March 16 of 2020 where the applicant presented this project no opposition was brought to our attention the mayor's office would like to go and record and support thank you no raising of the madam chair and have a motion please motion to approve bdda's I agree all those in favor opposed motion carries calling the next case calling b o a 109 9089 17 rent them street this is for a curb pack for parking spaces all my drive in this driveway the violinist article 65 section 9 the side data is insufficient name and address for the record please okay all right my name is cahill uh ten v o uh uh located 17 rent them street gorgeous the Massachusetts 02124 i'm here to propose for a proposal my uh parking space uh uh up the house okay uh one spot and is there parking on the outside streets is there on street parking uh yeah right now we only have on street parking and this is a public parking okay yes go ahead so uh we uh we pay uh 3600 for the uh for the uh parking park and recreation uh to have the permission to remove the tree on the on the left side of my house and um we got the approval from the curb application uh but uh now i got reject from uh from the zoning department is that you know the size i need not is sufficient but i see that this is uh ten feet uh in uh with okay uh and is this the one family or what is that single house family okay drop on the plans mr uh like um they're okay the uh the uh driveway and it's narrowest is nine and a half feet from the side of the house the curb cut is ten uh ten foot uh six and uh and it's not front yard parking it's set back chlorine up so uh it looks okay and have we heard from mr. Domingo at all mr. fortune no mademite here there is nothing here from uh mr. Domingo but we do have one letter of opposition okay um is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this project you got him chairman the board passed a send on air by our neighbor we'd like to go on about the report um this is slightly suggested area for parking uh and the applicant is sufficient to be the outreach um so that would like to go on support so i do think clarification is there parking on this side of the street on street parking mr. Mondale and now um i believe there's parking on both sides of the street okay so he's taking one street one parking space off the street he is basically eliminating one space on the street then and replace it with two potentially in the driver no he said one mark it could be two yeah okay um anybody else to speak here there and support our in opposition mademite here jelma get credit city council frank bake his office we'd like to go on reckoning support thank you mr. ambassador are you any more hands madem chair there are no raised hands uh and bpda has recommended approval with uh design bill for screening and buffering um there have a motion please open the approval of bpda design here second all those in favor hi any opposed motion carries your all set good luck thank you so much call the next case call the next case selling bla 104 4194 34 Brookville street this is constructing new rare and upper level addition and change occupant from a single family to a three family and to include extend living space in the basement and roof deck the violation of article 9 section 1 reconstructs in the extension of a non-conforming buildings article 65 section 8 a three family is forbidden article 65 section 9 dimensional regulation article 65 six and nine insufficient lot with article 65 section 9 insufficient lot with frontage article 65 section 9 excessive FAR article 65 section 9 number of allowed stories is exceeded article 65 section 9 insufficient front yard and article 65 section 9 insufficient side yard name and address further reckon please good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is john barry with the law office located at 400 grain at av in milt and massachusetts 02186 as part of the development team on this project with me today is james christopher the principal of rc alc this this proposal was to change the occupancy at 34 Brookville from a one family to a three family the original the original proposal to extend or to add an addition in the northeast corner of the structure was designed away during the community process so that is no longer part of the proposal the extension of the living space into the basement and the roof deck still is part of the proposal that is before the board they will break down this is in a one f six thousand neighborhood indoor chesters within a quarter mile of ashmont train station the unit down unit one is a two bedroom two bath that's approximately thirteen hundred and sixty eight square feet the the extension of the space into the basement is included in this unit but this space in the basement is solely a living room there's no bedrooms that are being added to the basement space in the proposal living room and there's mechanicals down there unit two is a two bedroom two bath that's approximately nine thousand sorry approximately nine hundred and thirty six square feet in unit three is identical is a two bedroom two bath that's approximately nine hundred and thirty six square feet was so access to the roof deck related to the violations that were cited the article nine section one as part of the edition that was designed away there's no longer an extension of the non-conforming use of the building or the non-conformance of the side yard as far as the other violations the lot size the insufficient lot with the insufficient lot with frontage those are all pre-existing not conformances the lot size here that's required required at six thousand here we have a four thousand six turn and fifty one square foot lot a lot with that's required is sixty here we have fifty point five same for the lot we were with frontage it's sixty feet that's required here we have an existing fifty feet or fifty point five feet the front yard insufficient is a pre-existing non-conformance the requirement is fifteen feet here we have eleven feet nine inches and the side yard that's listed as insufficient is the right side yard ten feet is required and they feet nothing not are originally was a pre-existing non-conformance of the original single family it was originally point six eight our proposal does increase that to point seven eight the heights does go up to three stories although the real height of the actual building is 31 feet three inches and tell us how the parking is walking because it looks like you have a dry way with the butter with the butter that is correct okay and so sit cross-dead it yes madam jerry this is jerry Christopher by the c a the the easement splits at the property line and turns out to the the butter's property and then on to 34 broke bail so be able to accommodate the parking off of the with the driveway splits on to 34 broke bills property okay um can collect can I see the plans because i'm looking at the photo and it looks like it has a side deck a slide sunroom and then a dormer can we see what it's supposed to look like so it looks like the the feel of the street looks like it's one and two families at this end um can you talk talk to us about neighborhood context here uh sure madam chair woman the original proposal here was for a a will would be more similar to a triple becker style house can i just tell a repeat to you once i mean i'm you may you know you but because you might not know this but we don't really care about what was originally proposed baseline is the zoning um so we want to know how you deviate or how the proposed project that is before us today deviate from that zoning and how it supports or does not support neighborhood character so as far as the structure that's being proposed before you the the plan that's before the board today we would argue does not deviate from what is the common structures of those that are on broke bail street okay and um so um to you're going up essentially three stories with a roof jack on top of that and can we see the basement plan and just see how that living room is connected to the basement please uh collect okay so um let's see so the living room and the dining room would be on the first floor two bedrooms oh the sunroom would be converted to a bedroom and um the family room with a bathroom in the basement come with the plans mr uh like um there uh well there's a hatch to the roof that which is good it looks to me like on a floor and the elevations that is only seven foot one uh from the uh floor to ceiling in the basement which is not sufficient for a uh a multi unit um um all right three in a project so i'm curious about that what ask apple can um about that who's gonna respond to that uh yeah it does look like that head height is seven one um um if uh if you know that's going to be seeking building code relief so we would potentially have to lower that portion of the basement well no not potentially well after correct i said if the project were approved oh okay well it's not going to get approved if there's a chicken and an ink thing here we'll not get approved um yes it works and what's next because there'll be a building code by license any other questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal is anybody here to speak in opposition madam chairman of the board passed a fendell may result in a word there's uh mr. what your full community process including two on-site abouters meeting uh made a presentation on the law and all specific associations um the majority of their butters had concerns about the scope of the project being a three family um structure and the neighborhood uh and the law and all the presentation of code uh we'd like to honor that in opposition but if this was a approved just ask for continued dpda to add to the uh thank you madam chair members of the board joh mi geckeren city council frank paykers office we'd also like to go on wrecking in opposition to the project thank you may i hear from the bpda please uh yes madam chair uh members of the board joh can't get bpda uh we recommended it now without prejudice the neighborhood is primarily one in two families and the addition although it's been brought to our attention is no longer on the table uh we have reviewed the plans with the addition and the massing is inappropriate to the uh to the street thank you madam chair secretary here we had one letter of support in six letters of opposition and the opposition is basically what was stated to the mayor's office and bpda okay um may i have a motion please do you want raised hand for madam chair oh yes are there raised dance yes buddy okay you know i'm in your muted hi my name is Norman Farah and um i live on Patterson which is part of the one family block one one uh one one family uh block of Brookvale and my concern was um you know already we don't have enough parking and there's not any parking going along with this unit and adding three units more i feel it's gonna already um add to add to what's already kind of stress for parking okay thank you may i have the next person shania unmuted hi yeah thank you this is shania davidson from uh 30 Brookvale um i'm the one who has the uh shared driveway um i think there's a little you heard a little bit about it but those pretty strong opposition from everyone in aborhood um everybody on this side of the street is all simple family homes and people have raised their kids here um and it's would be a giant change of zoning as well as change the sort of feel of the entire family uh structure um and i think uh also they're talking about destroying the backyard and making it into parking and right now that's a view point for about six different houses have a view into that backyard and now it just be a giant parking block um as well as it would be that's for very much so for the two of butters next to it um and when we did give our complaints during the time they changed a couple things but mostly they just want to keep it a big giant three unit thing and i would also say that you know people in the neighborhood have changed their houses somebody you know made a little kitchen a little bigger than norm is making it in his basement a little bigger but this person just came in bought a house to flip it and as a development project to make it a big giant new kind of place which doesn't fit with the the the the zoning or the neighborhood um community thank you um um i'm assuming Emily is related to you man here from Phil taco um Alice uh Phil's having issues with his his uh thing Alice you're unmuted um Alice can Alice can Alice can Alice you're unmuted okay okay i think we've had enough um me i have a motion please tonight is there a second second so although thank you mr. mckel for those in um in support hi hi hi and he opposed motion carries calling your next case calling BOA 109 0 426 582 freeport street this is removing stairs and replacing them with a deck the violation of article nine section one reconstruction extension of an unconforming building a three-family and a two-have sub district name and address for the wrecked police good afternoon Zach Icarity by 82 3 4th street so jealous what's being proposed and being by 8x8 to the existing parking lot that I have on the property it's not moving any closer to either of the uh butting members this one family or two family it's a three family it's a three family was this property before this board in the past say that again was it what was this property before this board in the past I don't believe so no okay okay so um collect can you scroll down a little bit we can understand how this works you have the driveway you have the house um and so you're proposing is this a uh rear can we look at the rear deck please okay okay how are the plants so well as you can see there's sort of hand brawl and uh but you know but it's a relatively minimal project so it's okay okay any questions you're just speaking support of this proposal I'm chairman of the board after can't down there about the neighborhood service that would make fun of it or the applicant I have notified his daughter butters and it's a relatively small project we'd like to honor thank you madam chair members of the boy Joe McGeckrin city council break bakers office we'd like to go and reckon and support thank you it any any other breaks down no madam chair may I have a motion please motion to approve second all those in favor all right any opposed motion carries calling the next case calling B.O.A. 1 1 0 2 2 0 9 99 to 105 famon avenue this is a recta mix used four-story building with 47 residential units two commercial spaces and 33 parking spots the violations article 69 section 29 go after parking and loading article 69 section 8 47 residential units is forbidden article 69 section 8 the general retail business use two is forbidden article 69 section 9 the maximum allowed a 40-year ratio is excessive article 69 section 9 the building height is excessive in stories article 69 section 9 usable open spaces insufficient article 69 section 9 the building height is excessive in feet and on it 69 section 9 the side yard is insufficient name and address for the record please good afternoon madam chair members of the boy attorney john Hulgey tenth look the road and entry on behalf of the applicant with me this afternoon is Joe Decippio who's the owner developer together with Rick Schmidt who's the team architect so tell us what's being proposed sure um this project uh went to an article 80 small projects review and as mr. fortune stated the site is 29327 square feet the zoning is 2F 5000 however it's surrounded entirely by neighborhood shopping too um it is directly adjacent to the famon avenue bridge and next to the famon uh commuter rail train station and the proposal is to remove and repurpose the existing structures and construct a full-story mixed-use building and that only there would be 47 units uh residential units two commercial retail spaces six affordable units would be included in that a minimum of 33 parking spaces and 47 bicycle spaces um the the so when you say repurpose does that mean those buildings are coming down yeah so buildings are coming down um there's four two family buildings are on that they will be down come down if this project is approved and everything will be repurposed as part of that the when we started the community process madam chair we started with the tenants of the building they will be um uh plate they will be transitioned someplace out for sure period while this distraction goes on and when they're coming back it actually some of the tenants actually had written letters to support for this proposal as well okay and told us about the unit breakdown sure the unit breakdown is there are 17 two bedroom units uh they range size from nine hundred and sixty to nine hundred and seventy square feet is 29 one bedroom units and they range in size from six hundred and sixty five to seven hundred eighty square feet and there's one studio unit which is five hundred and fifty square feet and the commercial spaces two thousand five hundred and forty which we envision would be subdivided into twelve hundred and fifty square foot uh retail stations so there are no uh three bedrooms in this building then there is none are there roof decks proposed there's not a tradition roof deck there's a kind of roof deck on the foot floor that's if you're looking at google maps you can see that there's a commercial building that used to house the female grill looking at this building to the right um there's this uh a deck on that side and it looks like the parking is underground or at the lower level on maple it is actually corrected is underground access off of new way in maple right at the intersection which is where the commuter uh there's commuter train stations parking so they'll get it okay and how many of these units are going to be handicapped accessible um a rich mitt um could the tvn video this is rich mitt i'm the architect i live at uh 78 walk out road in Brookline um and in this project it will be designed to uh work with group one and group two required to have the mass architectural access board so uh we just we've indicated which ones are um adaptable okay okay okay um how are the plans mr oh like the drawings are fine any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal that would add them to your members of the void jail cop with the mayor's office of neighborhood services we would like to go on record and support of this proposal i went through article 80 small private review was approved by the bpda board and it'll also provide much needed housing units the high park included six income stricken units thank you i have raising of madam chair thank you oh hey cava well after home madam chair members of the board they just find up a raise per percent in the carpenters union and behalf of haunters union carpenters want to go and record and support of this project thank you Candida i have to new members of the board um my name is Candida shepherd i live at 286 famon admin high park i'm in support of the project thank you madam chair and they're in a way to raise hands madam chair secretary here we have one letter of opposition thank you and there are three maps you're not to interrupt there are 38 letters of support which were floated to um iostey as he yet um may i have a motion please option to approve uh bpda designer there sir second second all those in favor hi any phones motion and carries thank you very much i'm your next case calling b o a 107 2124 295 kit rich street this is a change of arc from one family to a two family at a deck for additional egress replacing non-compliance dear the property is in a two f two thousand five thousand zone and then divide it into few two units the violations article 67 section 32 austrian backing is insufficient article 67 section nine additional law of areas insufficient article 67 section nine the usable open spaces insufficient and article 67 9.3 the location of the main entrance name and address for the record please mr. chair call there that's i okay i yeah i just got unmuted so i am here yes please tell us what you're proposing to do what we are proposing to do here is to effectively correct the long standing violation where we have a we have a a building which has been used as a as a two family uh the the current owner purchased it uh from prior owners who have had it that way it's been that what several for several ownership cycles uh we are looking to bring it fully in compliance with the with the code um and we we are where we have these different viola we we are we are where we have these different non conformities and we would like to apply for relief to address those and bring this uh fully legal and and up to up to code up to up to the building code and up to the zoning code so tell us how those units are laid out in this building the the primary unit is on the first floor which is the main floor uh it has access to the downstairs garage area and then the second unit is to the rear of that also on the main floor and the lower floor partially with access to a loft slash attic space the rear unit which is the one which is unoccupied at the moment uh is is really more or less a studio apartment we are looking to make a number of renovations including improving the access in the egress to that unit uh adding a deck so that there's no sorry ginger op can you tell us about the proposed square foot feet of each of the units the proposed square footage of each of the units is um give me a moment to pull that out so so oh like that i don't have that immediately handy um um you can can you please calculate that we just go on with that process um because okay um how are the plans mr. Arley um well they're unfortunately they're not all together they're they're they're done in several pages so it's a little confusing but i guess my question was the same thing what's the what's the square footage of the um uh of the studio apartment you know the other one the main one is not a mission um the square footage of the studio is um i'm afraid i don't have that handy at the moment i'm looking for it i don't see it on the plans well figuring it out um magis ask you a question is that garage i'm looking at the street view here is that garage used for vehicles at all uh it is yes it is okay um and let's go and see is anybody had to speak and support this proposal good afternoon madam chair members of the board Joe cop and Joe with the magis office neighborhood services we'd like to go on reckoning support of this proposal uh the it can fly at the embodies and uh since that time between that and now we have not received any comments from the neighborhood um we believe this is a small project is correcting uh correcting uh uh use and we would like to go on reckoning support thank you go by any chance did you have a chance to go out and look at this proposal Joe did i know okay uh anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition okay okay mr. jimk uh anybody else to speak and support our opposition anybody from the city council's office there okay um i think give you the i can give you the square footage right now okay it's it's approximately 850 square feet um that includes the the attic space the the living space on the on the primary floor where the living room bedroom kitchen and bath are is about 585 so there's a section above in the in the attic which is which is finished but not used um as uh as anything other than perhaps an officer storage space and what's the floor to ceiling hide in that attic it is less than the the legal minimum that's why it's not used as a bedroom or anything else and tell us about the other unit if this is 815 what size is the other unit the size of the other unit is is um it's a roughly equivalent to me one second um it is approximately 565 square feet okay that's the lien that we were interested in so it's five five 65 and eight fifty square feet right that and that does not count the garage it better not count the garage okay so um let me just look at this i because i've i've been looking at the street new and um it is a very modest house um and it um it's very modest and it looks like it needs the property owner needs to really do some work because it looks like this front yard parking in there um all the front yard is basically um uh as faulted over things like that so it looks like there needs to be some serious um bringing up to speed on this that's that's exactly the intention of what we're trying to do is to really bring this unit into uh into the 21st century if you will uh make it you know make it much more presentable uh but also make it in addition to making it legal make it presentable and marketable because if we can if that second unit would be legal then we would want to market it as an apartment or rental unit and to make it attractive and half tax has been paid on this is two as two units are as one unit because it's hooked to me like um like zelo tells me that it might just be a one one unit um and said i'm just trying to figure out what's really going on um i would have to i suspect it's been created as one you i have to defer to the owner who is also on this call um her name is juliet Turner and and that's a question she might be able to answer better than i can okay okay so um i okay so i'm looking at this and i feel like this is a very small piece of property a modest building that would work really well as a single family um but um the the pda is in support yes and the community isn't support or the mayor's office i don't you know i'll have the community process um but i believe that it needs significant design review because all the other violations of frank yard parking um and everything else need to be cleaned up so may i have a motion please i can do a proof maybe it is how to do thank you is there a second second thank you all those in favor hi hi any opposed motion terry uh madame chair uh what kind of design review are you looking for in this particular case because as you said yeah i paved over there really not too much addition to the existing structures so you know the issue that i have is one to verify those unit sizes as five sixty five and eight fifty i look at the attic and it's a serious pitch that i i think it could be um that i don't think much of that space is actually usable um and finally to figure out and clean up the front yard because it looks like there's a front yard parking right in front of the main door um and all the front yard is essentially paved uh in front of the garage and adjacent to it okay so just let's let's let's do right by the neighborhood this one thank you uh is that are you ready for the next case yes madame chair calling the next case calling the away one zero seven zero eight zero seven one fifty river street this is a new construction of a 30 unit mixed income senior housing building violate article 10 section one no off street parking is required in the front yard setback area limited limitation of parking area article 60 section 37 oz street loading isn't sufficient article 60 section 41.1 the front model alignment article 60 section eight a multi-family dwelling unit is of a bit new article 60 section nine the flurry ratio is excessive article 60 section nine the height requirement is excessive article 60 section nine usable open space is insufficient and article 60 section nine the rear setback is insufficient name and address for the record place good afternoon madame chair members of the board attorney john philgini ten books wrote together with today is uh we have johnathan garland who is the team architect john Alexis president of the Caribbean integration and bill rogan who's president of the planning office for urban affairs as i'm a clerk uh for which i'm read out we are here seeking bearing just for the construction of a new multi-unit mixed income senior housing 150 registry this is a city-owned vacant lot that the applicant along with the Caribbean integration community development bid on 2018 rfp dnd in collaboration with the madame pentat neighborhood association selected our proposal and the proposal was approved by the bpda bouvard on february 13 2020 the parcel is 42,120 square feet there are 30 units there are three studios approximately 400 square feet 27 one bedrooms approximately 540 square feet and they will all be with income restricted um six then will be a 30% five and 50% 12 at 60% and four at 70% there are 12 parking slaves' faces including do handicapped in a drop-off era and there'll be a 6,000 square foot community garden available to the public uh and that'll be done to a restricted deed a shared porch laundry room community room and can be country kitchen um i'll address the violations um multi-family dwelling because this is a 1 up 6,000 zone that has been used f-3-r and allowed f-a-r here is 0.6 we're at 0.6 floor iqql amendment is um third two and a half stories of 35 feet this building is three and a half story of 42 feet usable open space is 1800 square feet per unit we're at 645 square feet of usable open space and ribby odd zoning calls for 40 we're at 38 feet in four inches and confirming what building alignment um this property is set back um the proposed minimum front yard we're at 115 feet um i went through uh i was like dating a went to an article the 80 process um it's and was approved by the CPA board back in a February this year okay um how are the plans mr. oloc uh the ones are very good um i guess one of the cards are from mr. puget this you said this is a single family uh uh district that's correct um mr. oloc it is a single uh family district however if you um look at what is there um just to put this property in context the parcels on ribbustry diagonally across the street from the standard street apartments down the street from the Boston housing authority um and which is their apartment building the fully senior residents is yeah a Boston public health commission and mattapan campus as well as the Boston medical center this uh that's why i was surprised because i was single family because i've been neighborhood as uh dancing in the large units the drawings are fine any questions on the board it's anybody here to speak at the part of this proposal what is anybody just speaking support madam chair members of the board call gene Lewis here on behalf of city council on jay Campbell we'd like to go on record and support thank you members of the board Joe cop and Joe with the mayor's office of neighborhood services speaking on behalf of my colleague root needs to last in uh we would like to go on to the district thank you thank you i have some raised hands madam chair thank you um my my my lunch here members of the board mine operates with a carpenters union we want to go on record and support it is for you thank you i tried he was that yes i'm madam chair and um board joella set on behalf of the river street civic association going back it on support thank you thank you we would like to offer our support for this very important senior project and we are You're also offering financial support. Thank you. I have no other raise hands. Madam Chair, we have two letters of opposition. And what is the opposition based on? Desciting? Decciting. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion to go, BDDA designer to go. I don't. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling for that scare. Calling D-O-A-109-879-828-Wateman Road. This is to add a dormer addition for a master bedroom and bath. The violation is Article 55, Section 12. A side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Michael Chasen, 1505, by Park Out. Good afternoon, members of the board. We're just looking for relief to put in a shed dorm on the right hand side of the house. We're proposing 1948 for the land. Is this a one family, two family? What is it? One family. It's one family. Okay. And is it owner occupied? Owner occupied. Yep. Julia Brestliner is also called into this meeting. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Erlich? It's a pretty small proposal. They're fine. Okay. Any questions for the board? Is any here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Joe Copp and Joe with the Mayors Office of the Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support of this proposal. They distributed the notifications to the buddies about the project. We believe it's a small home improvement project. That should not affect anybody in this round here. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else to speak on this project? Okay. Have a motion, please. Motion to approve BPD and signage me. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling your next case. Calling the 08104-7748-3992-3996 Washington Street. This is the Razie existing structure and erect a four-story building with 18 dwelling units, one commercial space and 18 parking spaces. The violations, Article 67, Section 12, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 67, Section 12, the high requirement is excessive in stories. Article 67, Section 12, the high requirement is excessive in feet. Article 67, Section 12, the front-end-side step back requirement is insufficient. The Washington Street, Article 67, Section 12, the re-add-step back requirement is insufficient. Article 67, Section 32, Ostride loading is insufficient. Article 67, Section 32, Ostride parking requirement is insufficient. In Article 67, Section 12, the front-end-side step back requirement is insufficient on Ostride Road. Name and address for the record place. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board of Attorney Jeff Turego. With the address, Greg on discounted with an address of 15 in Broad Street, representing the petitioners at Boston, the district, and they also have got Trinier who is the architect on the proposal. As was mentioned, this project is proposing to raise an existing commercial structure, which is an out-of-service auto repair shop at 3992-3996 Washington Street. Turego up to four-story condominium building with 18 units and a small retail space on the ground level with 12 stacker-artoon spaces, a mix between ground and stacker parking. This project went through the Article 80 small project review process at BPDA was approved June 11, 2020. So, Councillor, so the lot size of this is 7,282. What's the zoning district? Is this a local convenience or an RF, what is it? Local convenience, Madam Chair. Local convenience, okay. And then, tell us about these units. Tell us the breakdown of the units. Sure. If six one-bedroom units vary between 630 and 810 square feet, and 12 two-bedroom units that range from 865 to 923 square feet. I can go over the layout of the building as well. The first floor. Any roof deck required or proposed here? Yes, there's a common roof deck, 1,041 square feet. It has two stairwells and elevator access required by code, because of the size and height of the building. So, you know, probably I'm assuming you did a site visit, and it looks like this is just very different from what's that they're on Washington Street. So, can you tell us about community context? Sure. So, it is a local convenience in working with the community. They definitely wanted to see something, because there are a lot of projects being built. You can see one directly, two down from us. More residential housing. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There's sounds a lot less to expand. No, no, we have no other expulsions. There's opportunities every day. Huh? Council, please go ahead. There is a newer project. There's condos on Whipple Street for a story right at the corner. There's a housing authority, mixed use building, and there's a number of residential three and six units up and down that corridor. In working with the community, they wanted us to also keep that small retail space on the first floor, but to make sure we got rid of that sort of industrial use of the auto repair shop. And we thought we did that with this project. Um, can you collect? Can you please scale through? So we can just take a quick look at the ground floor. Um, and then we would like to see the, um, the roof deck, please. Is there any residency in the basement? So there's nothing. There's the parking, the stacker system, which you can see in the front of the building would have the lobby and then the commercial space, which is 845 square feet. Uh, the lobby would have a message transportation board for MBTA routes because we are directly in front of bus stop along Washington Street. Um, Collette, can you roll up just a bit? Um, can you show us the rendering from the ground floor? Uh, repeat that. I know there's a bus stop right there. Um, so if you pull up ground level, madam, she'll right there with that sort of tree area. We actually added an overhang on our property and put public benches that the public can use, uh, that the community wanted to see as part of our give back as well on transportation improvements. But the bus route pulls right up in front. Uh, so that's it. What is that five assignment to panel that's on the roof? Um, I, I know Scot Trinair, who's on the call, would be better to answer the design questions. Good afternoon, sir. Would you name an address on the right, kid? Sure, ma'am. Uh, my name is Scott Trinair and I work out of, um, Quincy at one Billings Road in Quincy, uh, going through BPD, a preliminary design review, uh, I had initially had a fiber panel on the building and they had requested that I change it to something a little bit more suitable for the building. Uh, that was, um, the metal panel. So the note you actually see on the headhouse, uh, is just, uh, I know that had not been updated and modified. That will be metal panels well to match the, uh, siding below. And who's the, who's the design review person at BPD? Uh, Steve Harby, I believe recall that that's the question. You students got an architect. He wouldn't be doing the design review. It was Michael, can you so I believe was on this project? At the top. Okay. Um, let's see. So I got the, I got the retail. I got the parking access to the parking will be off of Archdale. All right. Stackers, tell us about that, um, that rooftop, um, that rooftop space. So that's a common deck. Madam chair. It's a thousand 41 square feet. Um, it will be elevator access and also by stairs through staircases. Okay. And besides the, um, the, the space, the headhouse for the, uh, elevator, what is up there? That that that would be it. And a couple of condensers. Hey, just a common elevator slash stair lobby that is concentrated in that same area with, um, the elevator up in the, okay. Um, how are the plans, Mr. Oleg? Um, they're okay. Although I have to slightly push back and what the architect is saying, you've got an elevator at a house, which you need. Of course. Um, but the other headhouse is significantly larger than it needs to be. It's not to simply matter back to us. Uh, why is it so big? The Washington Street. I had house. Is that what you're affected? I'm looking at two headhouses separately. One is for the elevator and the others for stairwell, correct? Correct. There's a stairwell, I still wrote, which is just a stairwell itself. Uh, the, uh, the other headhouse, uh, that has, um, a elevator lobby, which is, uh, about, um, almost seven feet in width, which runs across the front of the, uh, the stairwell access in the, uh, elevator access and the only thing that's excessive beyond that up on the, the roof would be the elevated machine room. And that's because of the, uh, the limitation of space down at the ground level to accommodate the bike parking. Okay. So let's look at eight, two, three, post elevation. You got two headhouses there. Um, the one on the right, which is, what, which is the, I assume the one on the right is a stairwell, right? Correct. That's the one that's over toward our trail. Okay. I don't understand why it's as big as it is. And I don't understand why, why the roof is a slope. I mean, you could, you've got a, you've got a very busy roof line up there. And on the other side, the elevator one, I also don't understand why it's as big as it is. It doesn't, it doesn't need to be. I, it seems to me that you could dramatically reduce the size and therefore the visual impact. And the headhouses on the roof. I have a question since this is a two in company project. Can I see what the garage looks like? I would be on the arched else side. I'm not. That's. Mr. Erlich, we can certainly work on reducing them with the PDA. And that would be incredible. Well, if we, if we improve, you can better believe that's the new part of the recommendation. Okay. I want to sit the garage, please. The rendering and let's just so we can see what the view is. That's eight and two. I believe. That's correct. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe Cockatill with the Mayor's Office. You've heard services. This project went through the article any review, small project reviewed through the Boston Community Development Agency was approved by the agency. This also does increase the city's housing stock and will include. Two affordable, I believe two affordable units for the neighborhood. That means that we would like to go and recommend support. Thank you. Anybody else is calling in or who would like to speak on this project? Everyone raising them. Madam Chair, members of the board, Caitlin here on behalf of Councillor Royo, the Councillor would like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. I assume you use it 29 as minor. Okay. Given that information, I am thinking that this needs a significant design review. To make it contextual with the neighborhood and that the roof structures be minimized to just the elevator shaft and enough space to step out. Is that what you're thinking, Mr. Olic? Something all goes on, too. Okay. So can we have a motion? Well, I'll just motion to that first. Okay. So it's for design review, significant design review and roof, okay, roof structures minimum. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Motion. Calling the next case. Calling BLA105453125-29. This is a change of art from a bobby shop and beauty salon to bobby shop retail and nine residential dwelling units. Construct a three-story addition above the existing first floor and construct a new rear stairway addition. The violation of Article 67, Section 12, the Flood A ratio is excessive. Article 67, Section 12, the building height and feet is excessive. Article 67, Section 12, the building height and stories is excessive. An Article 67, Section 12, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Todd Martin, 2529 Poplar Street, Rosendale, 02131. Good afternoon, Malin, here. You know, all members of the board. Please tell us what's being proposed. Yeah, this is Charles Bradley, the architects, and we're proposing to the existing one story retail building. Three floors of residential. Each floor is going to be about. Two thousand six hundred square feet each. Residant units are going to be one story, one family, one bedroom units. This three per floor, one each one is five hundred ninety six square feet. And six hundred and thirty one square feet and one six hundred fifty square feet. For floor. The violations are basically that the FAR is excessive. The required FAR is two. And we're adding basically we're adding to the retail, which is two hundred two thousand. And 19 square feet were having seven thousand in respect for the residential. And we're adding to the retail building. What gives an FAR when you look to buy ten thousand six hundred nineteen by the three thousand four twenty six for the for the lottery. You get three. So going from FAR from two to three. And so that part can be provided for this building. There's only on street parking. It's an existing footprint. The front in the size. See if there's anything. So that's for our family in the decision setback. Which we have not changed is ten feet. I'm not going to in a collection, you show us. Card. on the. The. The. The. Do you have anything that shows how it would be, how it would work, contextually so it's not. One of those boxes that we just see everywhere these days. I'm. Okay. Thank you. Okay. How the plants Mr. like. Well, actually to your point, the elevations are just kind of boxes. There's not a lot of detail. There's not a lot of sense of what the design would look like in, you know, they're, I mean, they're adequate from a technical point of you. It's a big jump up in density. I mean, I think it's a good idea to have second floor residential in a commercial district. I mean, because there's all these studies that show that there's eyes on the street and all this other sense of community. When you have that, I know wallpaper city, I think is adding two stories. I know we approve two other projects up the street, but I don't remember if they were adding two or three stories. And so, and the question I have for the developer is why of these one bedrooms, which tend to be. A place where people do not stay very long. Was there any thought to doing a combination of one and two's? There was a five. Madam chair, there was a thought of doing initially, but I thought it would make sense to do one bedrooms, all one bedrooms that are in people and opportunity to come to the neighborhood to, you know, of course, mature, matriculate to larger homes, maybe in the neighborhood. Yeah, I guess it just depends on what the price point is of these units. Absolutely. Yeah. Because, yeah, because, okay. Madam chair, it's different working. This also was four stories years ago. It was a fire some years ago. So we're actually, you know, attempting also to put that was initially there. Thank you. Thank you. The architect, the drawing on the basement. The proposed basement floor. Will that be storage? Where are all those rooms for? Yeah, that'll be storage and we're also going to have a store, a bike wax, a bike wax storage for 10 bikes. Okay, because I see a lot of petitioned off rooms with doors into them that are separate. Are those storage, a scientific specific units? Yes, yes. Okay. Okay. There's nine units. Yeah. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe Coppin, here with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We would like to go and recognize the portal to the proposal. Todd met with the committee two times, two virtual community meetings. But people, you know, people to ask questions and share their comments on this proposal. I did receive a couple comments about talking being in the issue with this. But we did support a number of other similar proposals in the area. So just turning them to be essentially a part of the character of the neighborhood. So we'd like to go and recognize the portal to this proposal. Thank you. Anybody else to speak on this project? Madam Chair, no resans. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve BPA design review. Second, Madam Chair. All those in favor? Any opposed? The, let's see, Jeff, the BPA's recommendation was of deferral. You make sure that since this is just a placeholder box, that it goes through significant design reviews. So that in fact, it is complimentary to a present-day village, which has made great strides in the last few years. Yes, ma'am. And you know I'll be checking on that, right? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. So motion carries. You're all set. Good luck with that proposal. Thank you, Madam Chair. It's calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-108-865131-TAF-TIL-TERRIS. This is a demo of the existing three-story deck leaving the roof structure intact, rebuild and structural and architectural drawings. The violation of the Article 9, Section 1 reconstruction, extension of an on-conforming building, and Article 67, Section 9, the side yard, is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair. Can you see Michael Griffin? No, I do not see Michael Griffin, and I do not see... Please leave him. No, Michael Griffin, Madam Chair. Can you see Michael Griffin? No, I do not see Michael Griffin, and I do not see... Please leave him. No, Michael Griffin, Madam Chair. I hope to see anywhere he sees either. Okay. Madam Chair, I'll go to the next case, and then we'll come back to that one. We have one case left. Calling a next case, calling B-O-A-105808-1525 Lincoln Street. This is a rectus six-story building, and totally approximately 135,000 square feet, consisting of 80 residential units, ground floor, flexible community space, residential amenities, and parking garage at ground level. The violation of Article 51, Section 17, the floor A ratio is excessive. Article 51, Section 17, the building height is excessive. In Article 51, Section 17, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Section, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Paul Rufo. I'm an assistant officer with Desmit Doug and B-O-Rufo, one-on-one arch street in Boston. With the air of NG-Wall, or Oxford, and it's part of the development scene in Andrew Cavalotti. Also, our development team boils to properties, and assisting us with the technical as Peter McColley. This is a project proposed in a neighborhood sub district, NS1's own in Austin, and it's proposed to be 80 units, six stories tall, 69 feet, 10 inches, and the lot size of the cover, which is kind of a unique shape here. That's surrounded on two sides by Lincoln Street, and it's Lincoln Street connects with Camper Street. This is just after Camper Street goes over the massages its term pike in a... What was this a parking lot for many years? It's still a madam chair. It's still a surface lot, and that's how it's being used. They directly across the street, 510, Lincoln Street is a light industrial building, and actually we're going to use some of the parking, not to jump ahead on that as part of this project, if overflow parking is needed. But the program calls for mostly four bedroom units, 59 four bedroom units, 11 three bedroom units, and 10 studios. This concept is called a co-living. It's a concept of rentals, which will address in a moment, but just to finish with the program outline being a four bedroom unit. So average size of 1260, three square feet, the three bedroom units, the average size of 90, maybe one square feet, and the studio units, and the IAGS is to do, approximately 413 square feet, those 10 units. So it was a lot of an oscillating process. Let's just jump ahead and ask, how many parking spaces are you providing? So there are 30 parking spaces on the lot. There's the ability to put another 30 parking spaces with stackers in that same location and an additional 16 spaces across the street. And I would note to the data space for 278 icicles. As I was saying, this will involve an extensive article 80. How many stories is this? There will be six stories, 69 feet, 10 inches. The land slopes quite a bit on Cambridge Street there, so it presents as a six-story building from Lincoln Street, and from Cambridge Street, five-storey stories. Now, tell us about co-living. I think I don't think we as a board have seen co-living in, I don't know, 20 years, a lot, a long time. Tell us about that. I think it's a Benji Mole. We'll speak to that, Madam Chair. Sure. Co-living is sweet-style units where the bedrooms or where the units are typically rented by the bedroom rather than by the unit in total. The goal is to create a new type of affordability within the city. And so, ultimately, 20% of our units are income restricted, which will be funded between $800 per bedroom and $200 per bedroom. And the rent is inclusive of all of your utilities, furniture, cleaning, and it's a great way to keep our young people in the city as well as street. Hold on. Here's where I'm getting concerned. Is this executive suites or is there something else coming in as real residential living? I want to make very clear that this is not- It is real residential living. It will be so short-term. Hold on. Hold on. I just want to make sure that we get the understanding that these also will accommodate families that it's not, for example, a three-bedroom unit with three random people being in there that they will have long-term leases. And so, just speak through that for me if I a little bit. The minimum lease on this slipmatch air will be one year. Okay. I want to make sure that they're not short-term. They're not short-term. They're not effective suites. Yeah, that just saw down the street. They're all from one year term. Family could rent it. But, frankly, it's designed for because there is- All the amenities are included, including cleaning and providing basic necessities, like toilet paper, paper towels, etc. That's how they're designed. One day after that, Benji, it opened. So, we approved some of the things that inked off. That's the only place I can think what we've approved it. But that was in the context of, you know, more regular units. So, this is interesting. How are the plans, Mr. Oleg? The drawings are quite nice. I have some questions about- First of all, what's the great room intended to be used for? On the first floor? Yeah. So, on the first floor, Mr. Oleg, we have about 552 feet of a amenity space combination of clogged ground, fitness center, residential amenities. And we've talked about actually creating, actually breaking that up. Well, even further, creating some work from home spaces. Okay. And then on the- on the- on this question of affordability, are those- the 20% that you talked about, are those affordable, are those- de-districted into perpetuity or is that run out after- with two questions? Well, that run out after certain period of time. And secondly, on the issue of turnover, will there be prohibitions against sub-leasing? Yes, there will be prohibitions against sub-leasing. Mr. Oleg, everybody will have their own, at least directly with the- the management coming- common, I believe, and they are- they're very experienced in this throughout the country. They answer your other question. These will be the usual deed restrictions, which I believe expire after 50 years, and that they're removable for additional terms. So they- they can go on a question. And there's a sliding scale with regard to the affordability, that 20% of the- of the units will be restricted. That's 70% of AMI. And- And- And 100% of AMI. 100% of AMI. 100% of AMI. 100% of AMI. And- Can you speak to the rental policy? Because we're seeing a lot on development in Austin and Brighton. And- and there are a lot of universities in Austin and Brighton. I'm just going to prevent these from being rented to either- to grads or even grad students. We- we made a- in our agreement with the DPDDA through the large project review, made a commitment to not allow undergraduate students here. And- we will accept graduate students from the local universities, as tenants here, as we view that- this is a- a perfect type of- type of idea to house them in our city. Okay. Any more questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, pardoning with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, who've grown record supporters proposal. It was a very few- proof-ful community process. And IG really worked well with the applicant and kind of getting different ranges in affordability and also getting it up to the 20% which is unique for the Austin Brighton area. We think this is an interesting proposal that kind of fits well with the character of- we have a lot of young tenants in Austin and Brighton, who would follow and fit well for this. And as a result, would not be competing with families for the existing housing stock out in the neighborhood. They weren't meant with the Austin Civic Association, received support from them. They received a number of letters of support to let them run into support of this proposal. Thank you. I have some raising as you know, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Sapi, Jojaj's office. Welcome to Go On Record and Support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair. It's Tony Dezadora on- can I have him on, please? I think Councillor Liz Bruegan was trying to say something. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Councillor. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Liz Bruegan, Councillor for Austin Brighton District 9. I'd like to go on the record of supporting this project. As you've heard, it's the first co-living project in the neighborhood. And offers another affordable option in a high demand neighborhood. The proponents have participated in a very thorough and prolonged community outreach and gate for the residents from an early stage of the development process. And I really appreciate the mitigation for increased steps in this project with a 20% of IDP units. That's a really important step forward in our district and our neighborhood. So, Councillor, I just have a question because, you know, I used to be the planner many years ago in Austin Brighton. And I'm just trying to figure out what's the difference then between this and a dorm. Because the sound that appears that they are looking for families, they're looking for possibly four unrelated individuals in these 59 four bedroom units. Good question. I think they're given us assurances that they're not going to be renting to undergraduates, which is a very important thing. There's nothing to put through for adults, you know, older folks to rent a suite and lift your co-living together. It's a new concept in the neighborhood and it's just another option. So, you know, I think we've gone through this pretty intense community process. And that question came up many times and I think the developer reassured us that it would not become a dog. Okay, thank you. Anybody else speak here? Yes. Call your own. My name is the board of mine. I'm representing Carpentrazina. I want to go and record on support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Dizaduro representing the Austin Civic Association. I'm not going to repeat what has already been said. Madam Chair, this lifestyle is clearly directed more towards young millennials who would like to stay in the city, probably occupy their units for just a few years. And hopefully move on to a more stable situation. The affordability issue was very appealing to them. The fact that as the councilor said, the hope and connoisseur, the hope here is that we can we can get some. And we can get some of the things that we can do. We can get some of the things that we can do. People out of what is traditional family oriented housing and free up more housing units where families can actually live in a afford and raise their families in Austin. We continue that struggles on with the major concerns that works. But it really started off as a generational debate when we first started this a year and a half ago. And I think that's the first. The concept is very new. You mentioned the 78 block project. Unfortunately, that project is not going to be open until Q4 of 2022. So I believe so we really don't have an example of how well this is going. But the concerns that works for us by people that did express concerns is does this type of living still have the appeal given the pandemic situation? And all that goes along with a social distancing and what have you? What's the issue of undergrad? You raised the issue all the time. Concerned and we've been reassured that this project would not be used for student housing. Undergraduate student housing. Yeah, because you know how Cahillis apartment and Union Square condo, the Union Square condo when students. And I'm supposed I'm supposing that the bulk of the construction down Cambridge Street will go student. So I was just curious how this will will break that mold. But thank you. Yeah. So I want to say that overall the ACA does support this project. Madam. Thank you. Anybody else to speak on this project? Yes. Madam chair. Secretary here we have over 242 letters of support. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve BPD design review. All those in favor? Motion carries. I'm going to give that second to carry. If that's okay. I'll give that second to the second. Okay. Okay. I hear that the applicants for top till I hear. So let's get to the last case. Madam chair. I'm going to call in for the record again. Call in the case B.O.A.108. 865131. Tafteel Terrace. This is demo of an existing three-story deck leaving the roof structure intact. Rebuild structural. Reconstruction extension of an on conforming building. An article 67 section 9. The side yard isn't sufficient. Name an address for the record please. Hi, this is Joseph Dan. Box and exterior remodeling for one tap till Robin. So please tell us what you're proposing to do. So there is a three unique. And Robin Dale, we are just going to be replacing the backpack and put the staircase on the exterior part of the deck. But this project before the board in the past was this address on before this board in the past. Never. No. No. Okay. How are the clients Mr. Oly. It's a very good. It's a very good. Okay. Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. I was going to support the. Why is it just. But I think this is a small project that we believe won't affect those around. Thank you. Opened you you've had a busy day today. Yeah. Yeah. May I have anybody else to speak on this? Kevin. Madam Chair, Secretary here. We have three letters of support as well. I have one. Thank you. Call your unit. Madam Chair, I'm from the port. I'll be after the council. I'll have to make a sweary council to go and recommend support. Thank you. And that and the BPD a recommends approval with design review. May I have a motion place? Motion to approve. It's on here. Okay. Is that a second? Second, Tara. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. With that, we've reached the end of a long day. Thank you, everybody. And we will see you in a couple of weeks. Thank you.