 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you do you you people makes you it impacted by a project that is those who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comment. In the interest in the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay. Mr. Shepard. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Valencia. Good morning. Mr. Stembridge. Good day Madam Chair. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board and community members. Thank you. Ms. Panado. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board and attendees. Thank you. Ms. La Libye. Good morning everyone. Good morning. All right. Mr. Stembridge I will turn it over to you. Thank you Madam Chair. The first item we have on the agenda is for the approval of the hearing minutes from January 10th. All right. May I have a motion? I'll move to the group. Second. Hey Mr. Shepard. All right. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. La Lov. If I'm saying the wrong things correctly La Libye. Ms. Yes you're saying it correctly. Shaville La Libye. Yes. All right. Thank you. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Next item on the agenda is extensions with 9.930 AM only. At this point we will ask if there are any withdrawals or the pearls at this moment for this time. Right. Okay. Then go though and the first one on the list is B O A 940 063. An address of three askable well-grown is the applicant or participants on the team present. I am Mr. Secretary. This is attorney Mike Ross from the law firm at Prince La Bell. Thank you very much. Yes. Mayor Brutfully just the reason for the extension and when are you expecting to meet it until? Okay. Well good morning. I'm Chair members and board. This would be the second extension of this matter. The first one was in December of 2019. Kind of right in the beginning of the endemic. And right now what we're facing is the reasons would be really based on financial and construction based. So you know I mean the weather this kind of this period of interest rates and where they're at. We would appreciate as long as extensions you're willing to give. But we do have to request a second extension today in order to to navigate that if you would. Okay. Okay. Do I? Sorry. Go ahead. I'll go ahead and make a motion. I'm sure to extend for one year from December or from today. When does it expire this? This? It will expire at the next at the next meeting. So I mean respectfully we would request that you extend it for one year from today. Okay. I'll make a motion to extend for one year from today. Do I have a second? Okay. Thank you. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Miss Olivia. Yes. Yes. Sure. Also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you for the mistake. Next on the list we have case B O A 8 7 4 2 6 9 with an address of 80 to 88 wells. Avenue is the applicant word and the team members present. Yes. Good morning. Madam Chair. Mr. Secretary I want to say welcome to all of the new board members. I wish you well in your endeavour. I represent the applicant of 80 to 88 wells. Avenue. This was a board granted this the variance is back in January of 2019. I like the previous extension requester where my client was affected by the pandemic as well. And there was two extensions that have been granted for this particular project, the less of which expires on March of this year. March verse 2023. The reasons for that Madam Chair and members is very similar to the previous matter. One was the pandemic, two is the financing, three is in turn to the construction. Now my client is presently in the planning process. The planning process has taken longer than anticipated. Well hopefully would be breaking ground soon but we need this extension to get past the March 1st, 2020 third date. Any questions? Do I have a motion? There's no proof. Second. I need an extension period. Today. One year from today I like that. I have the one year from the March 1st state which we have extended into March 1st, 2020. Would that be okay, Mr. Collins? Yes, that's okay. One year came to an original date. March, who is it? March 1st? March 1st. Yes. One year from now. Do I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Research that bridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next on the list is case VOA 773 858. With an address of six Evoan Street is the applicant for the participant of team member president? Yes. Yes, some persons. So now the need for the extension and the extension period that you're requesting. Requested in the one year extension period from today to allow us more time to work with the building department to submit plans. We had a delay due to again, similar to the other applicants rise in interest rates and the market conditions in the market. So we would like to request a one year extension from today, please. Thank you. May I have motion? Motion. Motion. We've got to make motion to grant the extension for one year from today until February 28th, 2020 for. Thank you. May I have a second? Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Canado? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. The next, the next case is B-O-A 803-885, which is an address of 24 Westminster Revenant. Is the applicant for representative president? Yes. Good morning. Good morning, my name is Chair Members of the Board. My name is Greg Maynott. I am representing Turn 4 Westminster Avenue and requesting a one year extension to allow us to complete our financing application with MOH. We had some litigation with the abutor, which was resolved, which caused a delay. Oh, that's been cleared and I'm glad we were requesting the one year extension. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to approve a one year extension from today? May I have a second? Second. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Panado? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next on the list we have a B-O-A 803-589, which is an address of 73 Robinson Street. This is the third request for extension which expired February 11th of this year. If extended, the new date will be February 11th, 2024. Request was requested before the expiration date. Is the applicant for representative president? Yes. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the Board. My name is Timothy Burke. I have that address 142 Berkeley Street in Boston and I'm the architect for the project. We are been trying to work to get things going. We've had some struggles with contractors and financing, but we're hoping to get that ready for this summer and so this would be I think the last extension we would request and would appreciate that very much for one year to February 11th, 2024. Thank you Mr. Burke. May I have a motion? Motion to approve an extension to February 11th, 2024. May I have a second? Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. LeBier? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next week. Next week. Next week. We have to be 081027055 with an address of 655 Saratoga Street. This is the first request for extension to expire March 10th this year. If extended, the new day will be March 10th of 2024. Hi. Good morning Madam Chair. Chair, Executive Director for the project. The owner was unable to join us this morning, but asked me to ask for an extension. Basically when this was approved about two years ago, he was hoping to build the project himself. He had owned the building for a while. Was unable to find the appropriate contractor and then has spent the last six months or so finding a buyer, secured a buyer, is transferring the property to a new buyer who wants to build it. The new buyer would respectfully request a two-year extension so that the current store owner can finish out his lease before they do the construction and add two stories about the existing store at 655 Saratoga. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to approve to March 10th, 2024. May I have a second? I say aye. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Sorry, did I hear Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Okay, Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Miss Alive. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next on the list we have case B-O-A-101-9-2-2-0 with an address of 6.45 River Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes. Francis, do you see this person? Demetrius. It was born here. Okay. Okay. Yeah. You see him? Demetrius. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Yes. My name is Demetrius. During and I have Christian Louis-Core owner. With me, we get a self-to-emiss. We hired a company called Contracting to represent us to pretty much actually he thought us he could get the project move very fast within six months. Here we are within a year. As a year. Nothing helped. And we've been trying to talk to him get updates. Find out where we are. He wants to give us a straight answer when the project is. We set credit with him as a last mark because he was he was probably much not qualified to do. The people. Demetrius. For what period do you need the extension? Until next year we would like to get a full year of extension that way we can get us really within your GC. See if we can get. Okay. Madam chair, Madam chair if I may. Yes. This is the first request for the extension. Would you do to expire on April 23rd this year so that the Wenger extension would be to April 23rd 2024? Motion to approve the one you're extension to April 23, 2024. Thank you, ma'am. A second. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck with that. Thank you, Mr. March. Next we have case B.O.A.109. 3253. Press of 97 to 101 for the street. Yes. This is the first request for an extension. With due to litigation this will bring the expiration date to end October 8th 2024. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes. Good morning. Madam chair members of the board. Richard Lins on behalf of 974 LLC. As the secretary indicated this was a matter that was approved by the board back in 2021. Decision filing date was actually January 13th of 2021. Francis can you mute Mr. John? Thank you. Sorry Mr. Lins. No problem. I don't know how much of that you heard. I hope it's okay. We just need to really understand when you take extension into it. Yes. So we're actually, Madam chair, this is actually a confirmation of what the expiration date would be in light of litigation. That litigation was pending through October of 2022 when the judgment is disposed so I was ultimately filed with the court. Therefore based upon the math and tolling under the Belford Decision we would like the board to confirm that the actual expiration date is now October 8th 2024 essentially taking into account the period for which the litigation was pending essentially stops the clock on the two year limit to make use of the variant so that is our request for the board this morning. Thank you. Madam motion. Motion to approve an extension to October 8th 2024. Madam second. Second. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Miss Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck with your list. Thank you very much. We will now proceed to read discussions for 9.30 a.m. Are there any referrals or withdrawals requested at this point? Okay. Hearing none. Hearing none we move on to the first case in this time. 3 million 7應該 be paid by staff on 2 month and the next one of them are modes of assure douchebag victims. Data well. the board of Attorney Jeff Grego. And with Dre going to scone with the business address. 11, three. Okay. Good question. I'm sorry. Are there two companion cases with this? There is a time period. Just. Oh, sorry. Okay. Yes, Mr. Stembridge, if you want to read those into the record. Yes, I certainly will. Madam Chair. Thank you. The second companion case would be the OA 125 8613. With an address of 93 Union Street. And the third companion case would be case B O A 125 8616. With an address of 45 shepherds. Great. Thank you. And Mr. Drego, you know we have a very long agenda. So property is key. Just focus on the the variances needed and your proposal briefly. Thank you. We'll do a matter there. So when you're looking at a surrendering of a proposal to combine and then re-subdivide three logs and to erect three unit residential condominium building at 45 shepherds street that you're looking at in this rendering here. The unit will contain three units, as was mentioned, all condo and five interior parking spaces that would go along with those units that are all housed on the ground level. The particular sub-distriction if you go to the next slide, Madam Baster, is a 2F 5000, our watt is 5,000 14 square feet. You can see some of the surrounding buildings. There's plenty of multifamily for three east to residential condominiums and rental around us. If you go to the next slide, please Madam Chair. Just to get quickly into it. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. Yes. This is actually with a translator. Okay, so we need to... Mr. Gregor needs the boss. Yes. So Terry. Thank you. Thank you, Frances. Thank you, Madam Chair. Okay, this is the case we're talking about today. It's a case of three, one in the case of eight hundred nine union street. Another one is the 93rd union street and the 45th Shepherds street. You can see on the screen on the screen. This is the three-way street. This street is the 5,000-way street. Okay, go ahead, Jeffrey. All right. Jeffrey, you're the next slide, please. Mr. Gregor, can you confirm, I'm sorry, because you said three units and the listings are six units with nine parking spaces. That was the... To the project, Madam Chair has really been modified over time. We started at knocking and went down to the x, had went down to four. And now with community boxes, our F3 correct and the plans that have were submitted. The final set will be reviewed by IITC. I'll show the three units with the five parking spaces. Thank you. Come on. Okay, and... Excuse me. Terry, translate. Thank you, Madam Chair. So, actually, the owner of the door, we have nine units. Why is the three units in the store? Because this project is called the name of the store. It's a nine unit. Then, we have six units. I asked six, not nine. Oh, sorry. Six units. Nine units. Nine parking spaces. We have six units. Now, we have four units. Then, we have three units with the ISD. Thank you. So, the slide you're looking at now just shows the slide of the next slide. Show the empty parcel that we're proposing to put the building on. We'll go to the next slide as well. This is the place where we can see a red carpet. This carpet will be on the floor. And this slide gives a good idea, sort of the composition of the buildings in the street. Apartment complex to the right, three to the left, one family behind us, and two across the street and some threes. You can see here, there are many different buildings. There are some buildings, some houses. In the back, there are houses. And there are also the buildings of the park. And we can get into the next few slides and start talking about plants. So, again, this is three units, all three bedroom, three baths and unit one, four baths and unit two, and three baths and units three. These are, this is family buildings, this will all be housed by one family site, who owns the parcel. This is the picture of one of the three buildings. There are three rooms. One is the three floor, the one is the unit one, and the other is the third floor, the other is the floor. The third floor is the third floor. This is the owner, called Sai Yi. This is the house of the house. If we go to the next slide and the next one after this, we now get into the parking area. So, you can see five parking spaces three full two compact with a 20 foot turn radius and an elevator on the ground level. This is the parking space. You can see there are five parking spaces, two big parking spaces, three small parking spaces. And I think this is all three. Sorry, the other way around three full two compact area. Is it three full? Yeah, three full. Some go hi, Dai Ge, Teng Che Wai, or Leng Go Hi, Sai Ge, Teng Che Wai. And I think it's just, sorry, Mouch. I think it's just important to show in the slide, because as we work with Councillor Braidon's office in the community, we really modify our rare setback to have 11 foot four inches and 21 feet on the left side of the property, which gave all of that area his room's space. So, in the background, we have 11 feet on the right side of the property, and we have 11 feet on the right side of the property, which is the room's space. And if we go to the next slide, it just starts to shoot at the upper levels, and we run through these very quickly. The second level house is in 1665 square foot, three bedroom with a front deck. This is the first single-room, 1660 square foot. There's a front, a half-room, and a back-room. And then as we go up to level three and four, those are by-level units, and those house bedrooms are level three with a deck, and units three is bedroom with one deck. And then finally, as we go up to the top floor, we actually through the process removed to the roof deck, and so level four just as a walk-out terrace area, and that house is unit two and unit three's opera level, which house additional bedrooms, those terraces. And then we see the roof deck, and so level four just as a walk-out terrace area, and so level four is the roof deck. The roof deck can be removed from the second floor, and the third floor can be used. And I'll just quickly go through the violations, Madam Chair. This is a two-f district. We are proposing three units, although as I showed at the board, there is plenty of examples of multi-family threes in the area. And then we will talk about the violation of the violation of the roof deck. There are plenty of multi-family threes in the area. The FAR allows the series to point a, we're proposing 1.27. The FAR is to point a, but our plan is to propose, O2, 7. Mr FAR, Mr. Rago. I'm sorry. Mr. Steve. It's 1.27. Okay. The FAR is 1.27. For height, we are at four stories at 42 feet, two inches. We actually lowered that height from our higher point. It was 46 feet and going through the process. Okay. We are at 42 feet, two inches. Now we are going to the highest point is 46 feet. We are also doing this process. For a side yard, a 10 would be required. We do have five on the right side, but we have 21 feet on the left, which you are asked to provide to add additional rain space. On the right is 10 feet. On the left is another 21 feet. We have some outdoor space for the greenery. Finally, we have two more areas. The 40 required red 11, which is very close to the buildings in the area, if not more. We actually working with countless office and the mudders have agreed to provide full screening and buffering in the back, where it's side to the project with landscape, as well as fencing. The back is 40 feet. We are also working with the two-way office. We are also working with some of the roofing, which we are also working with, which is a little bit of a dark area. We have some greenery that we can see here. And then finally, parking, we are close. We have five spaces for three units, but 5.25 would be required under the code. I can pause, and I also very exactly, some would use the architect to design this plan to fire the tanks. We have five parking spaces, three single-way, five-point, two-point, and five-point. This is our new plan. I will stop here. Thank you, Mr. Drago. Mr. Collins, have you reviewed the plans? Thank you, Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins, do you have any questions or questions about the plans? I do not have any questions or adequate. Thank you. Is Mr. Domingo on? Mr. Domingo, please come in. Any questions on the parking? Madam Chair, I just want to confirm the parking. It's accessed through a front yard curb cut. Is that correct? And a couple more questions. Are these condos or rental? And can you go over access to the roof deck? So there's sorry. Let me try to translate. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. So the garage is accessed through a curb cut. They would be created. I'm in the front of the building. Next to the main entrance, the roof is open. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. This is the roof. The second question about the terrace. We took the roof deck off. So this is just a walk out from the top floor, from the bedroom, through the access floor. And, pardon me, what was the third? Oh, condos or rentals? This is condo for the home. Thank you. Madam Chair. And the pot pots for translation. Okay. So, the floor of the house is in the front of the building. On the top floor, we need to open the door to the roof. We need to open the door to the roof. And, the roof is a roof. From the roof, the room can be moved out. These roof is all from the roof. This is the roof. Okay. Mr. Stemberg, did you have a question? I have, you do have a note here from Barack Miko. Okay. Thank you. B.T.D., saying that he approves of both plans for 8391 and 93 years. Okay. Thank you. That is helpful. And just, and I know someone usually asks about BPDA. So I'm just going to note that BPDA provided a recommendation based on six units. And so I don't know if Mr. Hampton is on and wants to comment. I thank you, Madam Chair. I'm happy to report. Yes. I mean, our recommendation was made four months ago. Yeah. So obviously, you know, over time, the plans have changed. So, it's recommended on the six of four of denial. So just to let folks know. So that was based on six. And now we're, we're talking about three. Are there any other questions from the, from the board? Yeah, I'm sure Mr. Drago, I would like to ask if you have, if you can share the specific reason why the project lost three housing units. So, thank you. Thank you. That's the one. Yeah, actually, I'm through. About it. Thank you. I just want to translate. Yes. Oh, sorry. Okay. Let me briefly translate. So, so, so aye, gouvernement and power talked about it right now to make sure that's correct. BPD has approved its stop-car service, which is called MIG-CALL先生. Before BPD, BPD is approved by six of the employees. These six employees have been approved several months ago. Now, I want to ask them, are there any problems? There are three of them now. Sorry, go ahead Mr. Drago. Thank you. Mr. Lentzia, that's a great question. We did want to go forward with six units, although we had multiple meetings over almost a two-year period with our neighbors, our butters, the councillors' office, that had concerns about the number of units on this lot. So in our working with them, that's why we reduced the project down to three, which they thought was more fitting to the area. So, what's the problem? Okay, so with that, may I open it up to public testimony? Is there any one? Hello Madam Chair, members of the board. Frank Mendoza here at Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Here to testify that the applicant conducted a community outreach process through our office. They met with the Bright Nelson Improvement Association, had a number of butters meetings. The last butters meeting we hosted, Terry was present as well as a Mandarin interpreter as well. We had the two members of the board, we had collected a number of letters of both support and opposition which we forwarded to the board, and at this time we'd like to perturbed to the judgment of the board. Thank you very much. So, we have also mentioned a lot of things. And we have our final decision. So, what is your final decision? Good morning. Sorry, Moira. Good morning. This is Maureen McCrave from Councilor Braiden's Office. The Councilor would like to go on record and part of the project. She'd also like to acknowledge some of the continued concerns from the butters just given the sort of tight access conditions around the project and its location next to a private road that is needed to access units behind the proposed project. Given its location that Councilor would like to ask for a provision for screening and buffering particularly in the rear. And also, which is one super-bother record that the proponent has assured us that this would be a kind of unit. Thank you. See, this is a buffer. It's also a function of a particular location. And we hope that we can have some of this kind of a safe and safe place for them. Madam Chair, any other raise demands? I have five. Madam Chair? Yes. We have, yes, for the testimony we have a good number of letters of support and a fair number of letters of support. Okay, thank you. I'm sorry. Miss Princess, did you say you had any other raise hands? Yes, I have six raised hands. Okay. We're not going to take all six because we were one day. So let's try to have. Try to have. All right, please. King and William Chan, go ahead. You've been unmuted. State your name and I just for the record, please. What? We're in China. Yes. Hello, my name is William Chan. And I am the director of other of Waiibat Shabong Street. Can you put your address into the wreck? Can you just state your address and whether you're foreign against it? And the reasons? Thank you. The address is to shut our place. And we are in the opposition of this project. Okay. My name is William Chan. I'm in the second place. So we're going to return to this room. Thank you. Thank you. Norman, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I just for the record, please. Hi, Norman. That's right. We can't wait for it. No more for it. Benjamin, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I just for the record, please. Benjamin Marshall. And it's 95 Rear Union Street and Shepard Place. We own about almost all of the property, which is a budding this property. So Shepard Place is private property people. The neighbors have a right of way throughout property. It's not a private road. Are you speaking in support or opposition? I was speaking in support. Okay. Thank you. I'm all right. My name is Benjamin. I'm in the 95 Rear Union Street. We're still in the same time. I'm in support of this property. Thank you. Laura, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I just for the record, please. Hello. Oh, there's a bit of a background. Laura, can you hear me now? Yes, perfect. Yes, okay. So Laura, beauty, 58 Shepard. I'm a butter for this project in opposition. And the reason is with the construction, the new construction of 56 Winship on one side. And then adding this project on the other side will completely block in two families and homes on Shepard Place and impact the quality of life of adjacent neighbors for very little benefit of the neighborhood and only financial gain for the developer. The neighbors of two and three Shepard Place are here as well. William did not get a chance to share his feedback on why he is opposed. If you can please go back to him. We have to keep moving forward. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Francis, yep. Next one is Annabella. Annabella, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I just for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes from the Brighton, also an improvement association. Just like to go on record of that, the component has come to the CIA three or four times with different designs from nine, six four. We were unable to vote at the time because we did ask for them to go back with the mayor's office for an interpreter. And since we are unable to have an interpreter at the CIA, we cannot happen neighbor speak. And it has gone back and forth a lot. And I think it is important that they had an interpreter. So we did not take the vote on this matter and asked the board to go ahead and vote because we will not be able to vote for that interpreter. Thank you. Thank you. Francis, I see someone in the telewriter. Do you want to do that? Dean Trupple? Sorry. Jenny, you've been unmuted. No. Hi, Jenny. Anna, do you want to? Yeah, can I just summary what Annabelle was saying? Is that the guy? Okay, make sure Jenny is on there first. Yes, she's on. Hi, Jenny. Hello? Yes, perfect. Go ahead. Do you hear me? Hi, Jenny. Hi, so do you want me to talk about what Annabelle was saying, which is keep moving on? Well, Jenny, does Jenny need translation? Yes. So you can speak Chinese, right? Oh, yeah, hi, hi, hi. Hi, you can speak Chinese. I'll be back. Jenny, hello. So Anna, can you please make ask her her name and address in the record? Okay, Jenny. Please leave it to us. Please express your support and opposition in life. Jenny, can you please leave your phone first? Jenny, I know your address. I'm in the same shop of the restaurant. Do you know what the address is? Do you know the address? I have no clue. We can take it back. Yes, I know. Yes, first, I'm a coach. I'm a coach. Okay. Okay, because I'm using my cell phone so I cannot write. I can write. She doesn't have to write it. She doesn't have to write it and she just state her name. Okay, you can speak your address in the address. You can speak your address. Please, I live in a second shop. Please. I'm the most important chef in this restaurant. I'm very happy to see you. We are both family. Okay. I'm the biggest victim of this construction of the number 45 of this address, construction. I don't think they should build this. This is such a small area. This is not reasonable for the expansion. The developer is totally ignored the role of our resident and our concern and our input. So now it's say that it's supposed we're one family living there. Now it looks like there's three families or parties living there. This is like a cheating on us. How can one family live in three different units? This is totally cheating and lying to us. Okay. Please let's journey the wrapper. Okay, so this dishonesty is totally cheating. This is dishonesty and this is a reasonable. So the blueprint has changed but then the construction area is remake the same. It cannot be a tolerant three story high. Okay. Okay. So, shall we place the private role? This is not right. The trash problem and the parking part really impacting negatively on resident like us. Thank you. I'm going to say Jenny. I think it's a. Any other questions from the board? Before we take a vote. May I respond, Madam Chair? Still it goes on. Yes. Yes, thank you. So just to point out quickly, one, this is a 5,014 square foot wall. Which is one of the largest in that area. Next to us is apartment complexes. My client has tried to address every single comment over a two year period that the community had brought up from lowering the height, increasing setbacks, increasing the rare yard side yard. And just to point out, we can't fit. I mean, we're at five parking spaces for the three units. We also said these would be deed restricted for homeowner occupied only over this period of time. There's large scale development behind us and up the street that we have nothing to do with it. I think many of the neighbors have brought up this concerns, the trash and construction. So we really have tried to be upfront and address every concern. Thank you, Mr. Draco. May I have a motion? Or is there a. Make a motion to approve with BTDA design review with special attention to screening and buffering? Would you like to put a proviso requiring this screen screening and buffering, Mr. Draco's where he said they would. So yes, with the proviso, I did hear that he said that he would. And I think with BPD, these BPD design review, they can ensure that it's adequate. Thank you. I may have a second. Second. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Ms. Olivier. Is she on? Okay. How the air is that considered an extension? I'm not sure. She does not appear to be on. It's six out of seven. I believe that is okay. And we'll just say I remarked that she's dampening this. Okay. I have a question. My name is called I am on. I apologize. Yes. I apologize for that. Yes. Are you voting yes or no? Yes. Thank you. The chair also votes yes motion carries. Next case. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Madam chair. Next case is B. O.A. One two two eight five six zero. At the address of 40 Lake Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes. Good morning. Mr. Secretary Madam chair members of the board. Peter Comansky from Coolson and Stores. Now, Mr. M. Hello, Mr. Kevin, you're in Boston. I'm here representing. Oh, can you hear me? Are you part of this case, 40 Lake Street? Oh, sorry. Okay. Sorry. Please proceed and please as that as you may have heard already, we have a long day ahead of us. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So I'm here representing our client, the common room. The common room is an organization dedicated to providing The commoner, the property at 40 Lake Street, I'm joined by Tracy Stoll, the executive director, and Tom Harrington as a board member. We're really glad to be here this morning. We were first before the board on June 7th of last year. There were a number of good questions about the project from up letters and others in the neighborhood. Several neighbors, including Secretary Galen, who lives right next door on Lake Street, recommended it deferral, and the proponent on the board deferred at that time. Since then, we've worked really hard to answer all of the neighbor's questions primarily around the specific use of the building, traffic concerns, and the approach to parking and drop-offs. Among other things, we hired a transportation consultant, Howard Stein Hudson, to study the traffic generated by the project. This has been at this point a very thorough community process. We've had three neighborhood meetings hosted by the mayor's office. We've presented twice to Brighton-Elson, Improvement Association, and other stakeholders. So after that, working outreach, we think many of the neighbors are a whole lot more comfortable with the project than they were last year. I don't know if Secretary Galen is able to attend the meeting today, but we understand that we've addressed the issues that he raised his satisfaction. So before I proceed, I just want to note that we have agreed to a number of conditions to the zoning relief. I can circle back to those at the end of, it's that's the best way to do that, but I want to make sure we get those on the record. Okay. So, launching in, if you could, we'll back to the next to the previous side. There's the context 40 Lake Streets on the corner of Lake Street and Undine Road. It's across the street from BC's School of theology, and just to the south is coming off Avenue. Next slide, please. Just a bit about the organization, the common room is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to providing young adults who have autism spectrum disorder with the opportunity to connect with small groups of peers and social settings. The members are high cognitive young adults who have completed high school, many have completed college or work internships, but their young people can experience social isolation due to challenges navigating the social world because of their autism, and they're looking to connect with peers for friendship and community interactions. The idea behind the houses that it will be a home-like environment, a place where members could come to participate in small group activities, and we really hope that it's going to be a very well-impact neighbor. So, just to focus on one of the items of zoning relief, we were cited as a community center, which requires a conditional use permit, the common room's use is much different from what people usually think of when they think of a community center. That's the use item that ISD cited, but what we do is very different. And the community center tagged a lot of questions from neighbors about the amount of activity and traffic that the use will generate. So, I want to be as specific as we can about the common room's use of the building. The plan for the house is that the common room's members will visit during the day and some evenings for small group activities. Groups of only four to six members at a time. Activities include things like playing cards or other games, building legos, learning to cook, watching a movie, arts projects, crafting projects, things like that. Really sort of quiet intimate kind of uses. So, in terms of the timing of the use of the house, we had a lot of questions from the neighborhood about that. We plan to hold activities during blocks that will be approximately three hours long. So, during weekdays, there might be six members in the house during a morning session and after an in session or an evening session. The sessions don't overlap, so there would be only four to six members in the house for activities at any one time. There would also be one to two staff members at the house to facilitate activities during those blocks. And on weekends, there might be up to eight members during an activity session. The common room also proposes to maintain one residential unit on the third floor, which would be occupied by one or a couple of caretakers for the building to make sure that it's really well maintained. We'd like to spend a minute just on the parking and drop off plan. We have a lot of questions about traffic and parking. We just want to note that very few of the members will drive. Most of them will be dropped off or take public transportation. The green line is just south of the project site at ComAuth. And Howard sent us and when they studied it really found that there will be a negligible traffic impact. As for the parking plan, so this view, this undying road view shows the two existing curb cuts, the one to the left leads to the back parking area. And the one to the right is an existing single parking space. Next slide, please. So here's the parking plan. There are a total of seven spaces on the property. There's room for four spaces in the back parking area. There's also a garage. We've in the house off of the back parking area, which is parking for an additional two cars. You see those tandem spaces there. And those spaces, the organization plans to be used by the caretaker. And then as I mentioned, as you saw in the previous slide, there's that existing single parking space. And the proposal is to modify that space to maintain it and modify it as an accessible parking space. The change in use requires an accessible route from an arrival point into the building. And the existence of that space allows us to really implement what our accessibility best practices to connect that space to a ramp on the way into the house. We've heard from some neighbors about concerns about the ramp design. The common room is still studying it, but in any event, the organization aspired a landscape architect to develop really first-rate landscaping plans. There's really big old making that side of the house work terrific. So just to summarize, we really don't think this is going to generate any significant traffic or drop off issues. This is a small organization. And we have the ability to manage parking and drop off as we go if it causes any concerns in the neighborhood. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? I'd also be glad just to read into the record of the conditions if that's helpful. Are there any questions? Mr. Collins, have you reviewed the plans? I have. Planned to be adequate. Any other questions from the board? Okay, with that, we can come back to you as needed, but let's take public testimony. Yes, good morning. Chair members of the board. My name is Frank Mendoza. I also brightened liaison for the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services here to testify to the applicant's completion of the community engagement process through the Office of Neighborhood Services. They met with the Bright and also an improvement association and had more than one of the letters meeting. And while we did forward a number of letters of both support and opposition to the board, I'd also like to make note that there were some concerns with pickup and drop off concerns by the handicap ramp as configured, particularly that it might remove trees and shrubs existing on the plot. Residents also hope the building will fit in with the character of the residential neighborhood. I do know that Annabelle Gomes from the Bright and also an improvement association is on and would like to testify. And with that, we will defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Okay, I see Councillor Braden. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I am here to speak in support of the common room at Forty Lake Street. This project is as a valuable opportunity for young adults on the autism spectrum. And to meet in the supportive environment, to socialise and develop their confidence and social skills. This will be an incredibly valuable addition to our neighborhood and they meet to meet these young people. So I'm wholeheartedly supporting this project. Thank you. Thank you, Councillor. Right, just yep. Annabelle, you've been unmaired. If you can state your name and address for the record. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes and the Bright and also an improvement association. I also live on on that road as well. So I would speak at the BIA had originally met with a common room and voted against the project. They did come back to the BIA afterwards but with no significant changes, we do not re-vote. The only significant change that they had was to add the handicap ramp, which raised more concerns with removal of the trees, the shrubbery, and in front of the house as well, some bushes. The concern is that you're here for our variance for that parking spot that's after our parking. And now that they're adding the ramp, and removing the trees, they're really making the building very institutional. Ann, we'd like to keep that character of the neighborhood if we have them in the neighborhood. We'd like the house to look like it belongs and I am a institution where I write a surrounding by institutions there. And we write it being addressed. We'd like to look up a drop off perhaps on Lake Street because I'm dying is a two-way street, but right there, there is only enough of one car to enter exit at the same time and there was also this more sidewalk on that side so that pedestrians come in from town of states and on dining, California are always on the street causing traffic recars and pedestrians on that little corner that only allows one car. So really would like some attention being brought to that right there, possibly moving to drop off on Lake Street where there is no cars parked in front of the house and addressing how this ramp can be done without ruining the character of the neighborhood and keeping the aesthetics to a single family area instead of having two car pets, a huge ramp and then moving the trees and shrubbery. Thank you. Thank you so much. Madam. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, just to note that Rodney Gof from BDD has approved the plan for 40 Lake Street and you may have the information from BPDA of their approval with provided us. Thank you. You answered my BTV question. And please let me add that there are many letters of support and a few letters of opposition also. Thank you. Francis, any other testimony? Yes. Linoa, go ahead and say your name and address please. Thank you, Madame Baza, or Madame Chair, members of the Board of Minor for us here at the center, the Carpenters City, we're here to fully support this wonderful organization and we ask for them to keep worth whether the community with the neighbors thank you. Thank you. All right, Kevin, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record please. Yes, Kevin Caraghi, 58 Cresto Road, Brighton. I enthusiastically support the project. For three reasons. First, it provides much needed services. Second, the common room's been responding to community concerns and the substantive way. And third, that hasn't been spoken about. Brighton's got a long history of being a welcoming community. This project continues that tradition and my enthusiastic support. I thank the Board. I appreciate the opportunity. Thank you, Kevin. I mean, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record. Yes, it's something more on there. So there are five, including, I think, yes, this is Il Galvin, Mylene is my wife. I live in William F. Galvin, 46 Lake Street in the immediate of Butter. Obviously, we've had previous discussions with the Board. And otherwise, my greatest concerns I think have been addressed. I want to state them clearly for the record though. First of all, to make sure that this use is exclusive to this particular applicant is non-transferable. I believe that's part of the proposal. Secondly, that'll be subject to actual time review by the Board at a later date. I believe that's incorporated. I believe it's three years. And lastly, and we've touched upon this and the discussion so far as touched upon this is the outside of the building that is the lawn. The previous proposal, the original proposal called for use of the front lawn, at least theoretically, from my understanding and the response of the applicant that is no longer underactive consideration. The drop-off is a continuing issue. I would only point out it's complicated issue because although statements have been made about undying, it's also undying row that is, it's also true that Lake Street is 22 feet wide and very narrow. I think that's going to continue to concern all of us to make sure that there's an acceptable approach from drop-offs, whether it be Uber, Lyfts, or private-castening guys. Lastly, I want to mention the, obviously, the trees and shrubs are important. But I think overall, the project has responded to the neighborhood concern. I've been a resident of Lake Street now for about 40 years. And obviously, I'm concerned about its residential character. And this proposal, when it was initially introduced, caused concern for me. But I do think the applicant has responded in a very responsive way. The rest of the concerns that have been raised. At this point, I believe it should go forward. Nevertheless, I think the issue is relating to drop-off and how one gets there should be considered. Thank you. Thank you, Secretary Galvin. And you're going to take two more? Yes, of course. Patrick, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the market, please. Yes, Patrick Galvin, 34 Lake Street Brighton. I'm a director of butter. My brothers just decided to, my permanent agreements, as long as they follow their things they've agreed to with the neighbors. I'm in favor of the project. I think we have any else who have been stated. So as long as they agree to the terms that we've agreed to, I'm all for it. Thank you very much. Bye. And, Zabra? Hi, thank you Madam Chair. My name is Deborah Rhee. I live on 48 Lake Shore Road. So I'm not at the rest of the butter. My concerns, I think the project is a wonderful project. My concerns about cutting down mature treaties, as you may know, Austin Brighton has the lowest tree cover of any district in the city. And since Lake Street is on a hill, anytime treaties get cut down, groundwater continues to go down the hill. And this year, once spot on Lake Shore Road, there was so much groundwater that was just coming out where we were retaining water on our somebody's house that the sidewalk was covered with ice for ages and making is very dangerous. But even though it was dangerous, because there was so much water, the turns were kind of an ice stream. So thank you. I think we understand. Yes, a tree's tree's landscaping. Thank you. Appreciate it. Please don't pay for our trees. Thank you. Okay. And the applicant addressed a couple of those issues, the issue around landscaping trees, shrubbery, and then just the parking, the drop off issue. Briefly. Sure, thank you. As I mentioned, we're continuing to study the ramp design. The current design may require the removal of that one of the existing trees. If that's required, we will replant a tree and continue with other landscaping that will mitigate both the landscaping concerns and the drainage concerns. And then on drop off, you know, when we've taken a look at the street, we do think that drop off on undying is probably the best point. But as I mentioned, we're committed to making this work, especially with the three-year sunset that we're agreeing to. And we have the ability to manage, pick up and drop off. We can pull into that, into the driveway, if it's helpful. We can drop off on either undying our lake street and we'll continue to work with the neighborhood to see what works best. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, do you want to win? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. We recommended a remote with design review on this, just to focus on the exterior changes and also for other front-to-back green space. We also asked that the board put a sunset provision on this for three years. So that the appellate back and give it up for this use in our original recommendation back in June. We recommended that the front yard space on the behind the way and that curve could be closed. Because if you see in the pictures, now there are two curve cuts within five feet of each other. So we recommended that that space be taken away. I'm not going to step on botany ghost toes if BTT feels that that's adequate. That is our recommendation. But where is all of those projects? Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve this applicant only with a, a, a, a, a, a proviso that we have a sunset provision for this approval for three years after issuance of the occupancy permit so that the appellate can return to the board and update us on the use. And I'm not going to make a motion on the parking space. It sounds like there's some desire to keep that and for drop offs. And then also just overall design review, landscaping and buffering. Thank you. May I have a second? Sorry. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Parnato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries good luck. Thank you. Next on the list we have case B O A. One, three, five, two, seven, five, zero. With an address of 62 North Beacon Street. That's the appellate or representative present. Yes. Yes. Applicant is present. Can you hear me? Yes. Can you please state your name and address? Yes. Yes. My name is Aminion Abbasman. My address is Fortune Stumpers Road. I'm the general contractor for client at 62 North Beacon Street. Okay. Briefly walk us through the violations and the proposals. Thank you. Okay. So the violations, and we were just meeting here last year. So the violations that we had were the height. And there was questions on whether or not we had a second egress door, as well as the ceiling height and the ground floor level. I submitted a set of drawings on December, providing the clarification on ceiling height egress door. We met back with the community, did some revisions, and so the new drawing shows. Instead of an additional dwelling unit, which was at the ground floor level, that's now a one bedroom handicap accessible unit. There is clarification if you can see. Oh, I can't zoom in. Okay. The clarification on the ceiling height, which is 7.6. You'll also see on the second drawing, you're in the demolition drawings right now. We go to the fan. So the red clouded area is what we had in question for the last meeting. What you're looking at if you zoom in, you'll see there's a utility room, and there's two forms of egress. One is the entrance on the side that you see going into the floor, where you'll have access into the utility room, or you'll have access into the ADA unit. And if you go around the back, you'll also see a secondary egress access. What was added is the excavation for the ground floor. And that's where you see the concrete, that's the concrete patio, along with the handicap rail. Okay. Madam Chair, can the applicant just go over the variances, what's required and what's being proposed? Yes, that would be helpful. We don't need to run down the entire on your slides. Can you please focus on the variances needed? The applicant is muted. Yeah, sorry about that. I had some background noise. So the variance that we're looking for is to add the ADA ground floor unit. I mean, we're citing FAR multi-family use for bed and off street parking loading. Can you address those violations? So the multi-family use is we're in a single family residential district where I ask you for the variance to build the single family into four units. We covered parking there. We have a driveway for parking and there is also street parking. We do not expect to add additional parking issues on the street. Are these condos or rentals? These are rental units. And how many bedrooms are we talking about per unit? We're talking about 3 bedrooms per unit. Can you address FAR? Can you clarify the FAR? I don't have my paperwork with me. Just clarify what's required and what's being proposed. What's required? And what's being proposed? Yes. What's being proposed is a single family conversion to a three family unit. You're asking about the FAR violation. Your floor area ratio. So what's your square footage of the building, a livable square face in the building? Square footage in the building. Can you pull out my drawings? Is it not showing on yours? Is it on the plan? Some place I just... Yeah, it's on the plans. I'm just looking for it. Oh, so good. So are you building basement and attic as well building out the basement and attic as well as the basement? We're not building up an attic. Okay. But what I have, the violations, yeah, I see the off street. I see the forbidding use in the floor, your ratio. We didn't have any violations on the FAR, but I'm looking to see where it's located in our drawings. So I think we had some notes on it. Well, it's noted as a violation. That's why we're asking. Yeah, so it looks like it's 4,000 square feet as your FAR is your square footage. And your... I don't know what to do. What size is your block? Hang on one second. It's going to take me a second to bring it up. But it's one family for 3,000. I think the question is, can the applicant respond to that? I'm sorry. Well, all this stuff already on the drawing. So let's just try to go through my drawings. Madam Chair, if I may, get allowable. I'd offer that so big district. Yeah, that would help us, I think. So 0.5 is what's allowed. And what are they at? So right now, I'm looking at 4,000 square feet. So you're allowedable square footage would be 2,000. Does that answer your question, Ms. Bernardo? Yeah, it sounds like you're proposing 4,000 square feet your allowable square footage is 2,000. Is that right? Well, yeah, but I'm also looking at the survey drawings. It looks like the existing is 4,000 square feet. Okay. So this is an existing building. We're just actually going into the basement. Correct. So what we look at the survey, I don't know. It's a existing precondition. Okay, I get it. We are not adding an inch in the building. It is the... It's the existing building which we are just converting the floors in the units. That's all. So you're converting it from one family to a four family. Okay. I got it. Right. Because there's three different levels. Okay. So according to the city's website, they have a 20,000, almost a 3,000 square foot house. Okay. I'm looking at the survey drawings. The survey drawings show its four different levels. Okay. Okay. I'm looking at the survey drawings. The survey drawings show its 4,000 plus or minus. Yes. So that's... The survey is the survey and the other. So there is including the basement. They put 1,000. Yes. Okay. No, that's my question. And it's a walk out. It's a accessible basement. So it's actually a roll out basement unit. Yes, it is. Yes. It is actually not a basement. It is on the ground level. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just to add, we have already covered three parking areas. Three parking garage. Forties could be converted, but we are using it as a utility room. And we have our own driveway. And you know, at least four car parkings in the driveway. Mr. Stonebridge, any notes from Mr. Domingo on parking? On this case, Madam Chair. Okay. Okay. May I have public testimony? Yes, absolutely. Good morning, Chair, members of the board. Frank Bendoza here, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Austin Brighton, liaison. We did have an abouters meeting for this project. They also reached out to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, but did not wind up being able to testify before them. So as a result, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association represented today by Annabelle Gomes. I believe in the participants voted to oppose the project. They did also do some outreach with the Austin Civic Association. However, citing a lack of proper notification, the Austin Civic Association, sent a letter this morning to the board, stating that they would defer to the judgment of the board. Beyond that, we would like to also defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bendoza. Madam Chair, I have two raised hands. Okay. Thank you. Annabelle. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. To be clear, the first time they came to the board, they did not come to the BIA. They did since come to the BIA and did vote against the project. At the time of the BIA, they also said it was three units, and that they were getting rid of the additional dwelling unit in the basement, and today they're representing it again to the board. But we did actually vote against it because of the confusion and the incomplete information that was presented to us. At that time of the meeting, they also said that they were thinking of doing short-term rentals there, which raised a huge flood to us. So we have major concerns about the presentation. What is that? It's going to be both. And we do not support a lower level, and forgiveness, and not forgiveness is way too much. Thank you. Thank you. Ann, can you be benignated? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Tony Dizajor, representing the Austin Civic Association. I would like to, in the same carry on with the Annabelle, just said about the confusion, to the ACA. This is the fourth version of this proposal. The first version was a three family with an ADU unit, and we explained to the proponents, you can't have an ADU unit without owner-occupancy, because they had that plans to occupy the building. Then we had a three family with a finished basement linked to the first floor apartment. Then we had a three family with an unfinished basement. And lower the hold this morning, I see, it's now a four family owner-occupied. Now I talked to the proponent this morning, and he informed me that he now plans to occupy the building and they wanted four families. So talk about confusion. I don't know how any civic organization could have an informed judgment and assessment of this property when it's a moving target. And every time we turn around the proposal is changed. And like I said, we have not on this latest one. We never received any notification prior to the hearing here about the changes. I mean, when you go from, I don't occupy it to owner-occupy, and then you go now from three to four units. Those are major changes that need to be brought back to the civic organization. So we just defer a judgment to the board. We see it usually as to how we move forward with this. Thank you. I'm finished. I see that one more base here. Oh, you're fine. Okay, one more. Okay. Ali, you've been a muted appeal. Let's take it, Amy. And I just heard the record, please. Yes, my name is Sham Sheeralee. I'm the owner of this property. Okay. What? To the question, in fact, I am not from this field of, you know, business. So the saying of short term to the question of, you know, it was just a lack of knowledge that I use that term that just just wanted to clarify. Okay. So can you address the concerns about the confusion? Because I think that the board needs to understand what the law is and whether it is to go back to the community since it sounds that is very interesting. They are all, you know, they both parties have been very, very kind to us. It is all because of my lack of knowledge that I use. So, you know, such terms that they did kind of confusion because I don't understand when they say, maybe in any of you, you know, those because I have never heard of. Is this a four family or a three family? It is. It is a four family. Excuse me, Chair. Can I please speak? Yes, and then we're going to go to the board. Thanks. So we met with the BIA in person and we addressed and listened to the community and to the questions. At the time, they mentioned that the additional dwelling unit is not allowed. It is actually a violation. If the owner is not good. If you have a good news. If you have a good news, you can go to the board. If the owner is not occupying. So I also went and spoke with the owner and talked about the other options. And that is where we came up with just doing a ground floor unit because it is that ground floor and we would create an ADA unit and he would be present. This was not something that we did reach out to Tony about so Tony apologies on that. But we did address it with the community. We did not send several iterations. I'm not sure about where the several iterations of drawings came from when they received a lot of different ones. But as far as the community presentation, we've met with them at least two times per. Thank you. Thank you. Just to make sure the board is aware. The BPD recommendation is based on a three. Converting a single family to a three dwelling within an ADA. So I don't know if Mr. Hampton you want to address that before the board. Either votes are discussed as further. Are you on Mr. Hampton? Okay. So just so folks know that's what they were basing their the recommendation on which was the now without prejudice based on those plans being submitted. So I'm not sure. Any questions from the board? Okay. May I have a motion? Motion. I in general I support ADA units. Now I believe that I think this project still needs needs some work in conversations. I would like to ask the proponent to prepare a presentation for them for next time for so for that reason I make a motion to defer this project. And so we can see here coming back in the future. And I suggested the now without prejudice so that they can go and do that work and come back when they're ready. Can I have a second? Yes. Mr. Schepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Pinato? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries. Thank you. Next on the list we have case B.O.A. 1366887 with the address of 21 Argonne Street. The applicant or representative president? Yes I am. Good morning to the board members. I am Stephen Petapas, the architect. The seven Stembridge Street was Roxbury. The violations for this particular project is a floor area ratio height of building which is number of stories. Currently I have side guide setback in our street parking. This is an existing two and a half story non conforming. Non conforming to family building. The side guide in front of our setbacks are existing. The project is not going to further violate that. We are proposing to take an existing unused attic space and convert it into a third unit. By increasing the floor area by 176 square feet which is really an actual increase of 500 usable square feet in comparison to what is there now. We have separate entrances to each unit. The first floor is entered from Argonne Street. The second floor is entered from the coal borne street. The third unit will also be entered from coal borne street. In addition to that, the street parking currently is two parking spaces. We are not proposing to increase that because we just have to be able to move forward. Any questions? Mr. Collins, any review of the plans? Yes, I did. The plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Just to confirm there is really no external changes. It is interior. For the existing two units, there are no internal changes. We are providing a third floor unit. And we are. I am saying there is no external. Yes, there is. We are providing enormous. We are providing additional 500 square feet. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I met with the board. I am calling anyone with the nearest office of the neighborhood. This is the nearest office. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. We have a meeting with the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Madam Chair, Mr. Thumberidge. Yes, we have letters, both of them, and support, and opposition to the project. Madam Chair, I have no base hands. Okay, was that me? I have a motion. Motion to approve. Sorry, go ahead. We have a second. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Melencia. Yes. Mr. Thumberidge. Yes. Mr. Coles. Yes. Ms. Penotto. Yes. Ms. Oliwag. Yes. The Chair also wants to ask motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 8903. It's an address of 18 to 20 Parkland Street. Is the applicant or representative of the program? Yes, Mr. Thumberidge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. My clients and property owners are Mark Little, Brian Kaplan, and I have a report on the report that I have received. I have received 18 to 1865 square foot site. And it is located within a 2F 6000 zoning sub district under Article 65 of the New York Dwarfchester neighborhood zoning article. I point out that the plans of the board today depict a revised proposal for six units condominium building rather than the nine units originally applied for with nine accessory obstreet parking spaces. The six units have been reviewed by ISP, by the plan's examiner, and stamp and updated for today's hearing. The building has been designed to use much of the same architectural language of other buildings on Parkland Street with the six units being served by rear parking area and for nine motor vehicles. In response to concerns expressed at community meeting stating at this point back to likely 2019, a client who gradually reduced surface parking and reduced the proposed unit count from 14 to 9 and now to 6 and increased usable open space on the site as a result. There is now a few thousand square feet of true green open space on the site plan as well as approximately 1,000 square feet of unit deck and patio space for the six proposed units. As I mentioned, the site is nearly 15,000 square feet as the plan's show there is a 13 foot 4 inch front yard setback with a landscape lawn, a left side setback of 19 feet 11 inches, a right side setback of 13 feet 8 and a half inches and a rear yard setback of 65, excuse me, 65 feet. Each floor of the building would have two side by side units, one being a three bedroom and one being a four bedroom unit making these condominium units ideally suited to families. The unit square footages would be 1490, 1510, and 1,600 square feet for the three bedroom units and 1,880, 1,930, and 1,930 again for the four bedroom units. As for the requested zoning relief, there are four stated violations. Primary among these is the use violation as a six family dwelling as a forbidden use within this 2-EPS 6000 sub-district, which is the present site here of a three family dwelling. There's also a violation for excessive floor area ratio. The maximum that they are here under zoning is 0.4 and this building would be at 0.81. Amidigating factor in support of these requested variances is that the lot size here and again nearly 15,000 square feet is one of the largest lot, so the largest lot I should take on the street. Aside from the Jehovah's Witnesses Hall at 29 Parkland Street, it is by far the largest lot on the block. 85% of the other lots on the block are no more than half the size of this lot. Despite its large size, most of the lot will be uncovered by the post structure, however, and the proposed parking area has been reduced to a reasonable count of nine spaces for six units. There's a cited height violation. The height limit here is 2.5 stories and 35 feet. This building is three stories and 33 and 1-1-half feet tall. This is a story height violation only with the building being approximately two feet under the maximum vertical height limit under zoning. Finally, the fourth cited violation is for compliance with prevailing local parking art setback of the street. The fact is that this building setback from Parkland Street was designed to complement the setbacks of the nearest buildings on both the left and the right. And as I mentioned, there are four of the generous landscape front yard area over 13 feet in depth. With that, Madam Cheryl Paus, you take any questions that the board members may have. Thank you. Mr. Collins, have you reviewed the plans? Any questions are concerned? Mr. Collins? Any other members of the board with questions? Sorry, no. The plans are adequate. I have reviewed them. Any other questions from the board? Madam Cheryl, I have a raised hand. Okay. With that, let's take public testimony. Okay. Brian, go ahead and state your name and address please. Hi, Brian. Brian, are you here to speak? Oh, I'm so sorry. I need to fix the name. I don't know why it always changes my name. But my name is I am. Sorry. Sorry. My name is Kevin Tran from the mayor. Good morning, Madam Chair. Number of the board. Kevin Tran was the mayor's doctor. I've never had service. This project has done through multiple iterations. The last three and a half years and through three of butter's meeting hosted by our office. The chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair of the chair I wouldarbeiten the parts of the Board. I'm not sure his story. Worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worry of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the worries of the the council would like to warm record, having deferring to the discretion of the board on this particular project. He's not, he's not for or against. I'm not against them. No, he is not. Because of the amount of letters of opposition and that no change was made from the laugh. From the last time, the project came forward. Okay, thank you. Any other raised hands? Yes. I'm Catherine. You've been muted if you can stay with me and just for the record, please. Yeah, my name's Catherine Lobb. I live at 21 Parkland Street across the street. And I'm opposed to this building because it's too large, too many units. And basically I'm just opposed because it's too large. I'm a chair, Madam Chair, members of the board also have a city council outliers make a plurid. The council has been in opposition to this project based upon the unit count of 14 units than the nine units, using opposition to that. As of now, the project now stands at a six unit proposal with nine parking spots. The council would ask the current to continue to work with Nevis at this point with the six unit count of the nine spots comes up in order. Thank you. Doug. Madam Chair, this is Mr. Salker. Secretary. Let's finish the, let's finish the testimony. Thanks Mr. Salker. Doug, you've been unmuted. Stay your name and address for the record, please. Yes, I be heard. It can hear me. Yes, yes. Thank you. My name is Doug Hurley. I am trustee for the Agnes B. On a Hurley Trust at 15 Penn Hall of Strip, which is two tenths of a mile from this location at 18-20 Parkman Street and former president of the St. Marks area civic association. Are you speaking in support of opposition? Opposition. Okay, thank you. And for clarification, someone asked, this is now a six unit project. Correct. Thank you. Any other, any other raised hands? I have one more. Robert, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Yes, my name is Robert Sarkarty. I live at 22 Parkman Street. I am in a butter. I lived in this house since 1953. I would like a few points to make. It'll only take me a minute. This is Parkman Street as a residential street in the consists of one and two family houses. We procured 50 signatures in opposition from the residents on Parkman Street. We believe the project is too aggressive for this residential street. The proposed six unit structures, the same size, 12,434 square feet as the nine unit structure. Apecus builders proposed last year. The building design is not compatible with the existing Gable roof architecture on Parkman Street. The city of Boston assessed the 1820 Parkman Street. 1820 Parkman Street, it's price. And everybody on Parkman Street is now seeing 100% more in their property taxes. All right. Thank you, sir. Last race, can you do Councillor Murphy's office go? No, yet. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Thomas Fane from Councillor Aaron Murphy's office. I just want to go on, Councillor Murphy, isn't support of the project if it's six units and nine parking spaces. Thank you. Thank you. Can the applicant speak to the, whether the, like the total envelope of the building change size or just the member, just the unit count? Thank you, Madam Chair. This is George Marancy. The unit count changed. My clients have never felt that this building is too large for the site as I mentioned. The building itself occupies plus than half of this 15,000 square foot lot. But there has been a preference or certainly a desire in certain neighborhoods for family side housing. These units are both three and four bedrooms, you know, reading, there's opinion pieces that have appeared in the media lately. There is sort of a bonnium of the fact that there aren't enough of these sort of units in the city. So I just want to put that on the record. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? What would you do that, Madam Chair? Just to note that there are many letters of both in support and in the office. Okay. And I know Mr. Hampton, your recommendation was based on nine units. And so we're here to vote on six units. Any other questions from the board? Would that be a hell of a motion? Now I'll make a motion to approve with BPDA design review. May I have a second? Sir. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next on the list we have case POA 141 1560, which is an address of 646 Bluto Avenue. Is the applicant to represent the president? Yes. Good morning, everyone. My name is Henry K. Pepp and Director and I have the applicant here with me in the office who needed representation. So she's doing it from our office. The project in hand here is changing the occupancy to a hair salon at the reference address. The applicant here is the owner of it. She's gone through the process. She has the plumbing permit, the electrical permit, and she also received a letter of support for a change of temporary change of occupancy back in November 8 of 2022. That was approved by ISD. This was, this used to be a Metro PCS store and she's converting it into a hair salon. She's not changing anything in the outside and as you can see, this is delay all of her salon. Thank you, Mr. Piper. Any questions from the board? This seems pretty straightforward. May I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor of South's Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's office is unaware of any concerns in the community. I'd like to refer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Francis? No raised hands, instead of Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'm sure I make a motion to approve. Second, thank you. Mr. Shepard? Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Madam Chair, at this point, I'd like to ask if there are any withdrawals or deferrals would be 11 a.m. hearings. OK, here none. We'll keep moving forward. Which takes us to case B.O.A.126-740, with the address of 64 o'clockwood street at the outskirts of the present. Yes. Mr. Secretary? Morning. Madam Chair, I'm so bored of turning Derek's small. I would business address of 1.0, Green Tree Nights. Madam Chair, we're here today seeking relief to erect a three-family dwelling on a vacant lot. Zoning sub-discard care is a 3F-6000. On a lot size is 5,625 square feet. We have one violation, and that is a lot area insufficient. And again, the 3F-6000, and we have 5,000 square feet. The application and the plans eat all other areas of zoning code. Madam Chair, with regard to the units themselves, the three beds two baths and our approximately 1,200 square feet. I'll stop there and stay in any questions that the board may have. Give us a small. Any questions from the board? All right, with that, we have a good testimony. Good. You just muted yourself, Mr. James. Sorry about that. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. The applicant forced 64 o'clockwood health in the butter's meeting on September 27, 2022, with 16 total participants and attendants. Our 13 of butter's present with the of butter's resulting expressing support. There have also been numerous expressions of opposition. The great amount of family and council is opposed. Well, no, well, they were initially opposed, but they have updated to be in support with the following revisos. So they were liking applicants. The applicant developed the team to, the applicant development team has worked with the direct of butter to address significant concerns, resolved or review of construction management plans. The butter is within support of the GMNC. We'll work closely with the designated general contractor to address concerns that will significantly affect the health and quality of life, but it's directed others if not managed judiciously. So they do believe that with the agreement made on to 27, 23 with the direct of butter is the proponent will adhere to the review and concerns of the CMP review, construction hours, excavation, noise dust, roady control, and all of that. So as of now, I believe that they are in support with those following revisos. And we do have 200 support, well, we have opposition. So I do not demand office for the first of the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised answers for? Yes, Madam Chair. Cheryl, you've been muted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Hi, good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Cheryl McDaniels, and I'm the property owner at 68 Conqueror Street, which is adjacent to this property coming up on that extensive meeting that we had on the 27th. There were numerous concerns that we had. And yes, we did agree that we would work closely with the GC, however, any subcontractors that are going to be used as well need to address all of the neighborhoods as well as having formal introductions before they come in so that we know when they're going to start resurrecting this project, what's going to happen, what's going to take place in terms of parking, parking as a major issue. We have several children being brinda training across the street. Her grandchildren, a lifelong member, we all are having lived on cloth with street for over 43 years. Her grandchildren have direct service door to door, specific with their IEP school plans. So there's a major concern for school about getting in the event that there's emergency vehicles and stops. So there's a lot of care. Thank you. We were looking to have ironed out in conjunction with working along with this plan. Thank you, Mr. Davis, for that meeting as well. Mr. Small, do you want to just address the subcontractor, comment that you made to confirm? Yes, Madam Chair. As with most projects, we have agreed to work closely with the director of the fire as infrastructure, if it will prove as the construction progress is well, the entirety of the fire. Thank you. I have one additional raise, Tanya. OK, Chair. Thank you. Halada, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and not just for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Collette Mose. And I am a director of water also at 68 Carcalford Street as my sister just stated, we still have a lot of concerns. A lot of signs is really truly too small for the proposed plan. And we are still in opposition. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? I'll show the board. No one does any of these things. Thank you. Madam Chair, I would like to ask a little phone in. Help? Yes. To tell us a little bit more about the roof. I will look in the street and all of the homes in the data street have an A frame. Thank you. That means the board has a flat roof. So can you tell me more about the difference in the design for the connection with the environment on that roof? Well, the proposal for it to be family, I take further down the street here. There are some houses with flat roofs. But in order to get the proper head of the board, it's an argument that's how to build a roof. Mr. Small, I think you've faded towards the end. No, I said I'm here. You hear me now? Yes, thank you. OK, as I was saying, Mr. Valencia's questions, I think down the other end of the street, there are some houses with flat roofs. And so we decided, the architect decided to go with the flat road to get the head of the roof. On the third floor, we want to finish the roof. Thank you. Madam Chair, do we have any other commendation from the VDA? Not that I see. Now, this was one way we didn't have any plans for this, so we could make a recommendation. Very. Madam Chair, just a note, if you know what I'm there. Yes, sir. It is a proposition. Letters of proposition and signatures in support also. Yes, thank you. May I have a motion from the board? Motion for approval with provisors of a BPDA design view and also provisor construction. And I'm not exactly sure what the general contractor and some contractors will approach it. So just a provisor that the applicant continue working closely with the butter and the contactors and some contractors. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm just going to have a day. Madam Chair, at this point, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask if there are any withdrawals or deferrals for the 1130 rediscussions here? Yes. All right. You're hearing none. Hearing none. The next case is DOA 1405922. With an address of 70 Wailing Street. Are there any other questions? Oh, I'm sorry. That bill was made there's a companion case to that also, the 70 Wailing Street. So the app, both if there is a applicant, or representative, is there? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm from Thundle. I'm sorry. I apologize for the case number for the companion case. It be OA 1434561. All right, Mr. Grego, you know the drill. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Grego, with Grego and Tuscano, this is address 11 be continued here and behalf of the applicant of 70 Whalen, the owner will he met, where all the way here, as well as Tully and Kineshtra, who's the architect and the project. What you're looking at is an existing structure at 70 Whalen Street. This is a former church building, and it was the little Zion Church of God. That was the commission, they no longer use this as a congregation. My client purchased it and the proposal is to keep the existing structures so there'd be no work except to clean up the exterior, but to build everything with inside the building. And this would be converted from a church to since residential condominium dwelling units and to create two parking spaces to the right side of the building. As we worked with both Project Bride, as well as the Macnolia, Howard and Macnolia Street, Civic Association, there were two points that I want to highlight that they asked of us. One was to keep the existing structure as is and work with inside the building. And then two was to create some form of parking. Originally we did not have parking created that as we went through community cross-pand process. The lot size is 5,243 square feet. If we could go to the next slides, this particular zoning district is a three family 4,000. And just to go over the layouts of the structure, we would be utilizing the basement with just 10 foot of the ceiling pipes. They would have those were housed the bottom level for units one to four with a living area kitchen in one bathroom, no bedrooms in the basement. As we go up to the first level, that would house the lobby mail room. And units one through four and bathrooms. And then as we go up to the second floor, that would house units five through six units, one through four are by-level units. And units five and six are both single-level units on the second floor. Gross square footages, 8,154 square feet of the existing structure. Just to quickly go over the violations, our one, this is a three-half district and we're converting to six within the church. So we do have a use variance. Additional lot size, open space, 1200 square feet is what we are providing. I don't know if we can go into some of the slides, but you can see there is a grass area, if you will, further to the next slides, there is still some open space that we're able to preserve. That's including aerial view. We also in terms of parking, because we're keeping the building, we could not create an additional parking besides the two units, but we did try to accommodate the group and the abutters. There was a lot of concern about not having a church go back because of traffic concerns, parking that happens on the weekend. So folks did ask us to make sure we kept this residential. I can pause and answer any questions at the board right now. Thank you, Mr. Dregor. Quick question on the parking. So will you be creating a new carcat or is there an existing one? So we'd be creating a carcat that was left from the front of the building. So even though it says one yard, use it really is inside of our existing structure. Would you have to remove that existing tree at the corner of Whalen and how it would create parking? Yes, so there are actually, there's a better, if we go to the next. Yeah, that's the site plan. So there's two trees. There's actually, it sort of sprouts. One side is on the parcel, next to us, we may not touch. We're going to try to keep that remaining trunk as best as we can. And for some reason, we think we can. We agree that we would plant another tree in that place. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? What's that? The usage for the basement. The basement will be used out. So that's going to be by level units. So right now that was existing church space, so that would be converted to have storage for the units, living area, kitchen, and what bathroom for those units. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a couple of testimony? Just to note, there is a lot of support. Thank you. Is that a good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Kishis and Tana with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. The Nevada's meeting was held on August 9th in October 11th. The Nevada's concerned for parking. In like the parking in the area, there are concerns with congestion. In the second Nevada's meeting, more parking was presented. And there was not as heavy of attendance in the first meeting. They met with local civics where similar concerns were expressed. Members of the Blue Hill Ave, Quincy Street, Howard Ave, and Magnolia Street Neighborhood Association, and Project Wright wrote a letter of support under the condition that the applicant meets with them regularly during the construction phase to address issues. At this time, we would like to give our adjustments to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a raised hand. You do have a raise hand? Yes. Mike, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. My name is Michael Closu, Project Wright 320, the letter A Blue Ave. This is in a very tough location, but I think people recognize that there is a question of restoring a building that's in disrepair. And we feel that this is probably the best solution to what can actually be done. We look forward to continuing meetings with the applicant. And the two off-the-peer parking units was important for the neighbors, given the lack of parking and the congestion of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Closu. No additional raised hands, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wood. I'm sorry. I apologize to the council, I'd like to make a very, council would do a reckon support. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hanson. Do you want to? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Madam, board, how are we recommended for the approval of the design review on this? One other thing that came up during the hearing was the actual parking spaces. If we get a BTT to look at that and see whether or not maybe a tandem space would be better to help take the train, or we're in support of this with the design review for any exterior changes. Thank you. Sorry, you recommending BTT review as well, then. I wouldn't mind if Bob takes a look at it. I know Mr. Panato has concerns about the tree, and I don't know if Jeff, whether or not, tandem space, it can be made more sense than side by side. Great, thank you. We go, sorry, if I ask you. No, I have Mr. Dango. Sorry, I think it would be okay. I may not. Oh, car on. I just, I'm very concerned. I don't want to go again, saying we agreed upon with the happy to meet with Bob Nico, but I just did the civic association. I'm very concerned about having some parking that works, so happy to be with Mr. Dango. Yeah, I'm not taking it out. It's just rearranging it. Yes, thanks. Okay. Thank you. Was that me? I have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve with BPD, BPD design review and attention to the parking with BTT. Thank you, ma'am. Second. Sorry, thank you. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Manager. Yes. I have a question. Was those two separate providers that we'd recommend? Yeah, a provider for BTDA design review and also for BTD to look at the parking. So that's good. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay, sorry. Where was I, Mr. Valencia? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Penauto. Yes. Ms. Olivia. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case BOA 1, 2, 6, 5, 1, 5, 2. The address of 10 cars in the street is the applicant or representative present? Miami. Yes, we can. Hi, my name is Kahilam. And I'm Kahilam. Can you speak up? Ms. Lam, can you speak up? Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Sorry. My name is Kahilam. I'm the daughter of 10 cars in street house owner. And this is the central house. And it is owner of the house. So we did some changes on the new ground plan compared to the old ones. And we discussed last time about sun yard parking. It's not allowable. And since we moved the one parking space to be next to the house, triangle sheet lawn on the left hand side of the front yard will still fit there. And the paved material will still be paper stones so that water flows directly and easily can be solved. And when you see the house on the Google map, the front there was cut a little bit during the renovation on June, 2021. So spaces should be enough for car to get in. And also the trash storage can be moved away too. But we measure the length of my car and also the space. And it is enough for my car to get in. OK. And PTT is not on this call. Mr. Stembridge does he have a recommendation? Yes, he does. Madam Chair, and his recommendation is to deny the proposal. OK. Any questions? Yes. I'm sorry. Basically to reduce it from two cars to one car. For five. Yeah. OK. OK. Thank you. Mr. Collins, were you about to say something? You get the drawings are an attic, but I can't see any of the dimensions on the drawings. I see. Everything cleared out. So you don't know the step back to the building. You don't know the size of the curb. I don't know how much room that is there. Got it. Thank you. Mr. Collins, actually there's not a lot there. And I know with Mr. Tadeco saying to reduce it to one, we recommended denial because if they have a different foot curb cut, you know, if I'm an attic and I should be practicing the only up one space. And it's literally going to be in front of the yard of the semi-attached dwelling. It's a crazy ride to begin with. And but it's very, very difficult to fit cars in this area. Yeah. Even from looking on the zoning map, et cetera, in the live view, you need to at least see a dimension between the house and the butter's lot. Because I don't think that there's not enough room there to get a car. Oh, I was like, is that too? Stairs are going to make it very difficult to get more than one in there. And typically, the city and this board have not supported the privatization of an on-street parking space. We can always ask for at least two. If you might now have a curb cut. OK. Any other questions from the board? OK. May I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Ross Cochran, I'm the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed their community process. Our office held in a butter's meeting in January of 2022, where a butter supported the project so long as a rain drainage system was installed. The local civic association supports the project and has written a letter of support on file. At this time, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. And Ross, to confirm their supporting for two parking spaces? I, yes, I believe so. That was what was in Melville's. Thank you. Any other testimony? Francis? No raised hands, Madam Chair. OK. Any other questions from the board? OK. May I have a motion? A motion to deny with prejudice. I just need to see more on the drawings. So they can come back again. That's it. I'm not with prejudice. Without prejudice, they can't. Without prejudice, sorry. I misspoke without prejudice. You know, if they can show me that there's enough room there for a car to get through them, I don't see it being an issue. OK. So basically, you need more, you need the actual dimensions. OK. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Mr. Stembridge? Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Miss Olivia? You're muted, Miss Olivia? I said yes, sorry. Thank you. The chair also votes yes, motion carries. Ms. Lam, if you could make sure that you update your drawings to reflect the actual length and width, et cetera, that would be helpful dimensions. Thank you. Is it a proof? It's not approved, you know. OK. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next case? Next case we have is number B-O-A-1406159. Interest is 9 Sydney Street. Is the applicant present or representative present? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy Business Address of 168 H Street, First Law, South Boston. With me today is James Christopher from 686 Architects. This proposal is here, is seeks to raise the existing structure and erect a new five residential unit building with five parking spaces at grade on approximately about $4,356 foot lot. Revised plans of which in front of you today have been reviewed by a plans examiner and have been signed and stamped today. This proposal is located within a 1F-3000 sub-district. However, the density of this building is in line with the other recently neighboring approved projects from across the street to the abutting building on the right. Further, this location is directly across the street from the Sabin Hill train station. The first floor of this building will consist of unit one, a one bedroom, approximately 663 square feet. The second floor will consist of unit two and unit three. Both units will contain two bedrooms. Unit two being approximately 879 square feet and unit three, 949 square feet. The third floor will consist of unit four and unit five. Both units will contain three bedrooms with the master bedrooms for both units being located on a recessed floor floor. Unit four will be approximately 1244 square feet and unit five at 1,328 square feet. Both units will have a small balcony located off the front in the rear of the building. The proposed FAR is 1.43 and 0.5 is what is allowed by code. The building height is excessive, proposing three and a half stories at 42.9 feet to the ridge, which is in line with the neighboring structure to the right. And that can also be seen on page 11 of the plans. Front yard setback, we're seeking zero feet to the bay, three feet to the dwelling. Side yard setback is 5.5 feet on the left and 11.5 feet on the right compliant. Both the front yard and the side yard were pre-existing non-conformities of the original structure. Rare yard setback, you'll notice that we're seeking 15.5 feet on the left and 16.4 feet on the right. And again, this rare yard of blocks the train tracks of the property. Parking will be three full-size spaces at 8 foot six inches by 20 and two compact spaces at 7 foot six inches by 18 at grade open parking, accessed by an existing curb cut. At this point, I'm going to turn it over to the board for any questions. Thank you. Mr. Collins, have you reviewed the plans? And I've planned their adequate. Thank you. Any questions from the board? A comment madam chair from Bob Domingo that the post drive way is much too narrow with safe access and egress. And at the same time, we do have letters of support and opposition. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, ma. Is this the first time that the project comes to present to the award? Yes, no. This was actually based upon an administrative deferral. So actually, the first time that we're present in the plans to the board, the original file plans were first six units and going through the community process and listening to the neighbors. We reduced the dimensions of the building as well as the unit count. You'll see that we have many letters of support on file on record from the surrounding of butters as well. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. May I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board. My name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant had complete their community process. Our office held in a butters meeting in June of 2022 where butters expressed concern about density. The local civic association also opposes the project and has a letter of opposite file. At this time, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. I do have two raised hands. Okay. Thank you. Elizabeth, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name and I'll just for the record, please. Hi. My name is Elizabeth Doyle and I'm the president of the Columbia Seven Hill Civic Association. And I'm here to express the opposition to the project on behalf of the Civic Association. The proponent came to both our planning committee meeting and our general meeting in the end of 2022. The planning committee, after reviewing the project and discussing the project, opposed the project with 12 to 1 and the general meeting opposed the project with a vote of 18 to 2. So the reason why we're opposed to this project is tearing down a tear down, which isn't the greatest thing. We also oppose the excessive size. I think the height, the number of units, and frankly the design. Yes, there is a large building to the right, which is on Seven Hill Avenue. It's commercial on the first floor and then there are some residential above it. We are deeply concerned that this project will really disrupt the character and the aesthetics. If anybody knows Sydney Street, it's really a quintessential doorchester street with two and three families. And this project will absolutely have an impact on that street and that neighborhood. We also want to make the point that we wanted to work with the developer, the proponent, to reduce the number of units, the height, which is about 45 feet right now, and unfortunately we didn't have any success with the developer adjusting the five unit project from an existing tear down of a three unit project. So I guess, I guess I would ask that, whatever the board's decision which we respect, will help us to work with the developer to get a project that will be approved and liked by the neighborhood association and the neighbors around it. So that's what I have to say. Thank you, Ms. Doyle. Madam Chair, may I just respond? Can we have the second testimony first and then you can respond? Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Ryan, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. Ryan, win 141, 7-Hell-Av. I stand support of 9 Sydney Street. Thank you. Thank you. No additional hands to the chair. Mr. Spitz? Yes, Madam Falman. I'll make a brief. This property here is the first house in off of, right off of 7-Hell-Av. In close proximity to approved cases that have the same pretty much height and line across the street, as well as that 7-Hell-Av that was mentioned. So again, the height was in 45 feet. The height was reduced as well as the unit count. When we first presented to the civic group, we did present a six-unit structure, but based upon the feedback in the conversations with the immediate directive bothers, and as we have our records on support, we reduced the unit count down to five and the dimensional requirements as well. Yeah, and I just would like to add that it's not a cross-form the train, but the TVO or in support of transit or oriented development, as most people are. But this is, you know, it's not across the street from the, it's a little bit down from that. Yeah, what was the height, Mr. Spitz, and it was 42.9 feet in a, and I was wondering, is the BPA have a recommendation on this proposal? I'm sorry, so can you just answer the reduction in height from what to what? James Christler is with me. I don't recall the previous height, but we are at 42.9 feet in the height, well, three and a half stories because of the floor floor's recessed. Got it, thank you. Okay. We're, sorry, were there any other questions from the board? Mr. Hampton, did you want to weigh in? They can Madam Chair, Madam Smith, we recommended approval with the time to be on this project, and then when it was at 6. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that may I have a motion? Motion. Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve. We approve this of two-cent-class to APPA and to APPA for to review the parking. Thank you. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Ms. Olivier? Sorry, yes. Mr. Chair, thank you. The Chair also wants, yes, motion carries. Great, thank you. May I be a sign? Thank you. Next, we have three companion cases. But first being... He's the first. I thought, sorry, I thought Stephanie, did you mention these were being deferred or no? Yes, we were going to defer. Okay, I mean, it's your last word. Okay, sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Okay, sorry. Mr. Stembridge, you want to read it into the record quickly? Sure. BOA 1296092 with an address of 23, Kennellwurst Street. Next is BOA 1296093 with an address of 27 to 29, Kennellwurst Street. And the last one is case BOA 1296094 with an address of 49. That's the applicant for representing the president. Yes, hello. My name is Evan Smith. I am one of the developers of the project. We are currently announcing for the referral. As we work through a revised set of plans after numerous community meetings. Thank you. Would that be our motion? Motion to defer. Yes, we have a date. Yeah, go ahead. The earliest date that we have is April 25th. Okay, can I finish the vote? And then you can decide on the date. Mr. Schumacher. Yes. Mr. Volencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Can you provide a date? The earliest date is April 25th. Does that work for the applicant? That's great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Have a good day. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1354015 with an address of 50 B Street. Yeah. Yeah, we can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good day. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1354015 with an address of 50 B Street. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can't do a represent present. Yes. Hi. Are you my name is Daniel Conn? And I am also here, Chris McEureo, as well as our architect, Sarah Screeching. We're going to talk about our roof deck project. First of all, look under the board. Congratulations on your new roles. Madam Chairwoman, there are attendees. As you can see, we have our plans up on the screen. This would be a private roof deck for myself, and unit A, and Dan, in unit seven. This would just be in line with other developments in the area that are also taller than our building. So we just like to build in accordance with the others in the neighborhood. So we're open to any questions at this time. And you confirm are you doing a head house or a hatch? Currently, the design is for a head house. Okay. So just as you may be aware, our recommendations are generally around hatches. Can you just respond to that, whether that will be feasible? I will refer to my architect Eric on that one. Is your officer gone? You should be Eric. Oh, family is on mute. If I could just say something, it is certainly something that we have considered. If that would make this a more amenable project, we're certainly happy to adjust the plans from what we have seen in other developments in the area that there are our head houses. Primarily just for safety reasons. It's easier. You've got point. So that would be my response to that statement. I'm sure Eric is on. Sorry. Thank you. I was running back here. Go ahead. I was just going to say there was a question about the Eric about the head house versus hatch. So if you wanted to comment on that, that would be great. So we discussed it initially and the intention was to bring the common stare up. And in that way, comply with the building code instead of having to get a building code variance to have the fourth level of the fourth floor access to the hatch. And also to provide kind of access to both units without with minimizing the penetrations to the roof. Any questions from the board? Here none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Nairs Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor is obviously deferred to the judgment of this board. So back information in the community process. Our office hosts and the butter is meeting on October 18th. So we have a report that was sparsely attended. The applicant went on to the West Broadway neighborhood association, which indicated that they were in support of this proposal. I would like that. We defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. And really quick, Connor, if you don't mind, we send an email and a white had asked us in an email to both West Broadway and the St. Vincent lower end neighborhood association. And we had no opposition from those two neighborhood associations. Thank you, Daniel. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flin's Office. The councilor would like to go on record in a position due to the quality of live issues roof decks have presented for years in South Boston. That were exacerbated by the pandemic for years neighbors and civic groups in South Boston or seniors persons with disabilities, young family have all complained about roof decks in the residential neighborhood impacting neighbors quality of life with now parties are hours and trash removal issues in the form of weird kinds and pizza boxes left overnight and blowing off the roof decks on to the sidewalks and into the streets. This proposal will also be across the street from the West Broadway Boston housing development and potentially present similar concerns and quality of live issues for neighbors in public housing. Thank you. If you if I may, Madam Chair, when I just feel sorry, can we finish customer money first and then we can circle quickly back to you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. Thank you, sir. I'd like to comment on that statement previously. My self and my neighbor are working professionals that have ties to the community. We are both living in our condos that we own and have no intention of living anytime soon. As as it relates to parties. We're in our 40s this I think we're a long past that phase in our life. We're really looking just to prove our units and have some open air space in in line with what other developments in the area are doing. These are the other developments that have gone out our multi unit buildings that all have access to their roof decks. We are two individuals that are looking to improve with private roof deck. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Do you have a recommendation? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. We recommended approval that with the proviso that access be by hatch only in no headhouse. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that may have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso that access is by hatch only. Madam second. Thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Penauto. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'd like to jump ahead to the 12 o'clock. Rehearing to see if you're in a with the furrow or withdrawal. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. Is Mr. Christopher raising his hand for you? The furrow or withdrawal? Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boy. Excuse me. I'm Mr. Cop, 1130 deferrals. Would I be able to defer that now? Is that okay, how we're? Yes, I believe you can. Okay. Okay, Mr. Christopher. Can you identify the address? I do not judge. 68, Rosary. Okay. Thank you. That's the first one on the 1130s. That's correct. At this time, we're requesting just a very brief deferral. The players have been refiled at ISD based on redesign. And they would just not be reviewed in time to the hearing. Thank you. And just to read it into the record, that's the case number B-O-A-1-1-8. 3277, as it said, with the address of 68 Rosary. Thank you. Madam motion. Madam motion to defer. Motion to defer. Madam second. Second. Second. Mr. Sheprin. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Semberg. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Do we have a date? The Arnie estate may have is April 25th. Thank you. Madam chair, can we spend a time for that date as well for this deferral? If there is one available, Stephanie, is there a time available? 1130. Arnie. Thank you. Okay. Back to 11. No, sorry. 12 o'clock. Is that correct? Yes. Yes. And the next one would be case B-O-A-1-3-8. 1-7-3-3. The address is 15 to 54 to 60 Roger Street. Is the applicant or representative? Yes, Mr. Secretary. But afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Parency. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I represent Stuart Malale, the owner of 54 to 60 Roger Street in South Boston in the corner of Devine Way. It is a 3,146 square foot parcel with an existing two-family dwelling. My client has applied the demolishing, existing building and erect a new four-unit townhouse style building. This matter received an administrative deferral due to, I believe, a five-member board. And in the interim and in response to the recommendation of the BPDA, my client directed his architect and makes changes to the plans. These are the updated plans which are being shown today. Today's hearing. My client's architect reduced the curb cut with to 16 feet in total for 8 feet per townhouse building. As these are proposed townhouse units, there is no practical way to create a single curb cut for unified access to one or two independent garages. I would point out there is no parking allowed on the even side of Roger Street, which side this is. My client additionally removed the projecting bay on the devine way side of the site for the concerns of the BPDA and reduced the projection of the bay on the Roger Street side by approximately 8 inches. I would point out that on the Roger Street side, those bay projects above the property line, within the property line, and not above the current public sidewalk. My client has also set the building back from the front block line by over two feet to allow for either sidewalk widening or a front yard landscaping. The BPDA recommendation expresses that FAR should be reduced. The zoning subdued here is L.5, which is a local business zoning sub district under the 1964 base code with the maximum FAR.5. The vast majority of cell Boston calls within article 68 with the maximum FAR.2. The proposed FAR is 2.26. Finally, with respect to the BPDA cited article 25 concerns, I would point out that while article 25 is not technically applied to this project, since it is not an article 80 project, the fact remains that all of the ground floor space here is either entry space stairs or parking as are allowed under Article 25. With respect to the plans, the first floor of each unit would consist of a garage, a main entry for each unit, as well as trash storage and utility rooms. The second floor of each unit would consist of a living room in kitchen with a 10 foot by 3.44 porch in the rear. Each unit would have two bedrooms and baths on the third floor. The second floor would be a mezzanine level above approximately 19 feet by 16 feet, which would not be visible from Rogers Street, as would be set back approximately 16 feet from the front of the building. Besides FAR, relief is being sought for violations only to insufficient lot area, open space, front of rear setbacks, and building heights. The height density and massing of the proposed building are quite consistent with other dual projects in the area, and the modal front setback on the block is actually zero. This front setback actually exceeds that by two feet, of course. There's also a site of violation of traffic visibility across the corner at the intersection of Rogers Street and the BIN way. Rogers Street is one way coming down to DIN way. The building is set back at the corner by just over two feet on the Rogers Street side, and by just over two and a half feet on the DIN way side, which is fairly typical for cells caused in general, and for this neighborhood in particular. With that, Madam Cheryl, pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Mr. Collins, any questions on the plans? I don't think so. Are you maintaining the rear setback of the existing building? So the one that you're planning on tearing down? I believe that the setback may be, I don't know, at the take-off work at it. In the meantime. I'll be here. Other than that, the adequate. Regardless, it was more of a question. Thank you. And Mr. Hampton, I know what your recommendation was. Can you kind of comment on the, on the, you know, whether Mr. Marancy's client has addressed those concerns? It's sarcastic. We've got him chair with everybody just to listen to what we recommend. Everything would be perfect, right? Mr. Marancy is aware of recommendation that so is the board. We appreciate the effort that they made to change the project. Just to be clear on the parking. So the existing curb cuts, how many existing curb cuts are there? How many are proposed? Two curb cuts have been proposed. One for obviously for each of the townhouse units, the risers. Currently there is. No curb cut on the Rogers Street side of the building. There is a curb cut on the divine wayside. That curb cut would actually be able to be closed. It's near hydrogen, but there actually could be a legal parking space in the area of the courage curb cut on divine way. So there would be actually a pickup of on street parking of plus one. And in answer to Mr. Collins's question, that's exactly correct. Whether from Google Street View or from the tax parcel viewer. It is approximately certainly no greater than the depth of the existing radio. I said back the existing building. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? No, mention no question, but there are loads of support on record. Thank you, Mayor. Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're following anyone with the mayor's job statement and services. It's time the mayor is obviously deferred to the judgment of this board. It's in back information in the community process. Our office hosted a butters meeting, not October 17th, which reports that it was possibly received from a butters. The applicant they went on to meet with the Andrew Square Civic Association and received their support as well. And that would refer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Madam, we shall members of the board. Anna Calderon from Council President Flames Office. The councilor would like to go on recording support of the proposal for four townhouses and a total parking spots. And they pulled room for trash storage due to a truck community process and feedback from neighbors and the Andrew Square Civic Association. Councilor President, please respectfully request that the proponent continues to work closely with the neighbors during the construction phase and on the place of the Ministry of Khanope. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, also, the Council of the Council of the live-maker, Larry. Echoing sentiments of the Council President Flames Office, Councilor Kimon, record support. Thank you. Any other raise stands? Okay. With that. Yes, Madam Chair, sorry about that. Yes, I have one raised stand. Okay. Thank you. Hi, Andrew Square Civic Association. You've been unmuted. Good morning, Madam Chair. John Piccotersky, by-quang resident of Andrew Square, co-chair Andrew Square, civic association development committee. Mr. Malli and his team have had discussions with myself in the PolASEA Board, working to address our concerns and about his concerns. Some involving the listed code violations were pleased with the amendments made to the 5460 registry proposal. We hope to have our continued engagement with the developer and we'd like to go on record of being in support of this proposal. Thank you, sir. Would that be a motion? I move it through with BPDA Design Review. May I have a second? Exactly. Mr. Shepherd? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Pinato? Yes. Mr. Miss Olibe? Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case number B-O-A-136-7237. The address of 128 to 134 North Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm support attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and to scow no with the business address. 11 B can street here and behalf of the applicant known or salvage toward the pulley. And I also have Ed Gaffney with Patrick and her who's the architects on the proposal. This is a very straightforward proposal which you're looking at. It's prominent building within the North End. The corner of both North and Cross streets. It's 128-134 North Street. And what we're proposing today is to change the occupancy to a single family dwelling and to renovate the interior of the building. This would be Mr. LaPolice private residence for him and his family. And this would also include along with the renovations to the inside of the building two parking spaces on the access on the side of the building. Just to go over this zoning district, this is the central artery special parcel zoning district. A lot of sizes. 3,1002 square feet. And everything we're proposing is to work within the existing contours of the buildings. Nothing would change when not handing out our own besides or changing any of the setbacks or height of the building. If we can get into the floor plans, the basement level would house a gymnasium living area in two bathrooms. The first floor would house as I had mentioned the garage access through the front end existing curb cut. And then entered on the side, which you can see here in this cycle. The would also house the main entry of the building, sitting in the one office, one bath, and a mezzanine level of family room. The second floor of the existing building would house living room, kitchen, pantry, dining room, another office, and one bathroom. And the third floor would house the bedrooms, three bedrooms, three baths with an office and longer area. The roof deck is existing on the building up by the burglar on the top floor. We would just be renovating that. We would not be adding additional square footage to that. Just to point out the zoning violations are minimal. This particular district actually allows for multi family residential or multi unit. It's choosing to keep this for its own personal residents. So in fact, one family is actually a conditional use. Multi family is allowed. And then the other violation is just on the ground level. It only would be limited to lobby space for some kind of a commercial use. And because this is residential only we were cited for that as well. Again, we worked extensively with our neighbor, the North Bennett School, to come up with a very detailed construction management plan, which our team and their team put together as we went through this proposal, which addresses everything from trash to noise level to road and control. And even though this project is all going to be worked on within the interior of the building, this building had sat for a number of years, I don't like it in the inside. It was used as office space, mass, the OT, greenway. And you really want to refurbishing the entire inside and really make this a replaced to live for the family. I can pause it at this time and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you Mr. Dringo. So just a quick question. So you'd be adding a curb cut to the side of the building. No matter. There's an existing curve. But if you actually go on the third page, there's a site plan. It's a property. This Bastille tea actually uses that right here. Sorry. You can see it down a little bit. You can see there's an access point now. That would allow for complete access that would remain one to the front of the building if you want to get onto the side of the parking. Perfect. Thank you. Mr. Collins, any questions on the plans? No, drawings are adequate. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. Is this property or what is property part of the DOT building? Is that a new acquisition from the DOT? What is the deal with the property? So this was formally owned by the mass DOT over years that was reached out to different state, city entities, rent the inside. An RFP process went out my client purchased the building but let the existing greenway tenants stay in there for a number of months while they could find another location. But he does the property. Thank you. And all they're getting in space for the outdoor space is that part of the property now or is that going to be part of the DOT property? So that would remain to the DOT and the public. The deal, Mr. LaPoli would have easement access rights to enter the garage and obviously the front of his building. But he, but that would remain right now by mass DOT. So that is already access to getting in space? Correct. Okay. Thank you. Okay. I may have public testimony. Francis. Yes, Madam Chair. Elaine. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Councillor Colletta has received a letter of conditional support from Newrat and has reviewed the letter of commitment. The North Bennett Street School had shown her the Councillor would like to go on record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam Chair and members of the board. I am Sarah Domingo from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant for 12834 North Street has had an ongoing community process. On behalf of my office, I did hosting a butters meeting on August 8th of 2022. The LaPoli family and their team has worked well with their direct aboutter the North Street Bennett School. They were able to come to an agreement for construction and mitigation agreement. And regarding that, they did receive non-opposition letters from the two North and civic groups from Newrat and Newnic. And I've also received letters from the neighbors in the community. I've sent directly to the board just voicing their support. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board. The councilor has a letter to the councilor. I'd like to thank the councilor. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Tom Ann, your Councillor Aaron Murphy's office. Due to the good community process and community support for the project, we would like to go on record as Councillor Murphy being in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, just a note that we do have letters of support and an opposition also. Frances, I see a note from the representative of the Wood's office. Is Luigi able to speak? Yes. Luigi? Yes. Go on. I can see it. Sorry, Madam Chair. Luigi, you've been unmuted. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Luigi from Grant Michaelwick's office. He's the supporter of this project. Thank you. All right. Madam Chair, I do have four raised hands. Okay. Is there any? Okay. I know we can't tell who's in support or opposition, but it would be, if there is anyone in opposition, it would be just good to hear what they have to say. So, please proceed, Frances. Pat, please state your name and address for the record, please. All right. Daniel, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. I'm Daniel Pasic and tell you, live at 155 commercial street. And I'm in favor of this proposal. I had Delhi's Missal Koli when I worked up at Lawrence. And his philanthropic initiatives go well beyond what people would expect. And he would be a welcome neighbor to the Nassad. Thank you. Thank you. Sarah, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I'm Daniel, I John, help you with everything you need and it'll be medical to make progress. But it can help you with your workplace. Yup. making a good faith and cooperative effort with the LePoly company to reach the mitigation agreement that's been mentioned and we did reach that over the course of the series of conversations in the fall and that was really to protect and to limit the impact of our students are teaching in our operations so given that we've reached the construction mitigation agreement successfully this school does not oppose the requested zoning relief. Awesome. Thank you and last raised hand LePoly. You feeling muted? Hi my name is Salah Tololio. My wife, Jay DeBoly, my son, Sal, Jr., my daughter Mary's on the phone. We just want to say we're excited about this opportunity where originally one of these boss and the very low that we have ties to the low. Thank you. I know you're the applicant so we don't we know you want this project. No worries. Thank you. Are there any other comments from the board? If not, may I have a motion? May I have a motion? Motion to approve with BPDA design review. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Olive. Yes. It sure also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. This is going to be an interesting addition to the North side. Thank you. Good luck, Mr. Boliv. Next we have case number BRA 1341065. The address of 280 Chelsea Street. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Good afternoon. I should say Richard Lins of the Business Address to 45 Sumner Street. On East Boss on behalf of the petitioner, Dalfiore development. Madam Chair, this is a relatively straightforward proposal as well. This is a pre-existing, non-conforming, 3-unit dwelling. Our proposal would change the occupancy from 3 units to 4 units and we would accomplish that by converting the lower level space of the existing building to a one-bedroom residential unit approximately about 8 square feet. If we can jump to slide 3 and 4, start with 3. So we do see the existing building here was actually renovated as of right. The entire building itself has already been pretty much rehabbed and the process to convert this to a four unit would be done separately on an alteration permit. We don't propose to change anything with respect to the footprint of this building. All of the work would be proposed to be interior normally. If we go to the next slide, I think you can see sort of how this back of this building relates. So as we start on the front of the building, we have full three levels above the sidewalk, but the slope from Chelsea Street to the rear actually does allow for a full walk out of the lower level basement. That's where we're proposing to create additional space. If you can jump to the next slide, I believe we also have one more slide, please. So our existing site plans showing the building itself, as I mentioned, we aren't we aren't proposing to change anything. We're starting with footprint as there are no additions proposed to the rear. And any of the existing nonconformities that presently exist in the site are not changed except for one is in the interior. We go to the next slide, please. So our program for our lower level basement renovation is on the right hand side. We don't propose to make really any changes to the second and third level of those of the existing three better units that are already existing on the site. There is some small changes that we made with their sector. The first level to allow for access into the lower level as well. I do have Eric Saferson as the project architect here who can answer any specific questions on the design. With their sector of zoning, I can just run through the release that is being requested. This property is located at three F 2000 district. It does allow for three families as a matter of right. So the current use is conforming. However, the change to four would create a multi-family residential use and therefore that because that is forbidden under Article 53, we are requesting a variance for that. I would point out this neighborhood is pretty dense and does have a lot of multi-family uses in and around Chalcer Street, Chalcer Street as a main thoroughfare through Re-Spaustin, including and I do like to make references because we've been involved with the planning spots and projects for some time. Multi-family residential is the use that is being contemplated of the new zoning change for this neighborhood. We do recognize that this addition to the lower level is in the coastal flood resiliency or really district. No, we're not subject to that with respect to this project. I do understand the BPDA generally has concerns about that, but I would assure the board that this project is not in a flood zone and therefore any modification at lower level would be permitted under our code. And certainly again, I recognize the BPDA's position when it comes to coastal flood resiliency. With respect to the other items for which we require a variance because this space, although is existing, we would be changing into habitable space. We do increase the FAR, the current FAR is 1.27, which is already a non-conforming condition. The increase would bring us up to 1.95, so we do require a variance for the additional FAR. Because the current makeup of the property with respect to usable open space is non-conforming, the addition of a dwelling unit, although there is no change in the footprint of the building, does create additional need for a useful open space. We're not proposing roof decks. I know roof decks tend to be somewhat controversial in this particular section of East Boston. We don't propose to add that. We do propose however to add rear decks for each of the units and then some outdoor space for those lower level units as well. So we do feel that the open space issues can be addressed. But we're starting to parking because this is a pre-existing use at three units with no parking currently on the site. The zoning code requires that we only add one parking space for the additional unit that we're proposing because that would be probably impossible to respect in the way the building sits on the site now. We are requesting a variance for the parking and we also think that's for good purpose as well because we're very cognizant of BTT's position with respect to introducing current cuts for private parking spaces. When we're not proposing any more than two spaces that would mean. So in this case, we think a variance would be appropriate rather than taking away on-street parking if assuming we could even create parking for off-street views. With that, I'll pause. If there are any specific questions on the plan or the relief that we're seeking, I'm happy to answer that. Thank you. Mr. Collins, any questions on the plans? Hope plans are adequate. Okay. Can you address the APD mentioning the coastal flood resiliency overlay at the shared issue? I'm sorry, would you like me to address that? Madam Chair? Yes, it's a question for you. Oh, I find the rest of Mr. Collins and I apologize. Sorry. No, no. Yes, so you know, East Boston doing a lot of work at East Boston, very familiar with the overall district requirements, certainly on article 80 size projects we're adding, you know, at least 20,000 square feet or 15 and more units compliance with coastal flood resiliency design guidelines is necessary. It's not necessary for a project at this size because we are simply adding one unit to an existing three unit building. So therefore, while we can attempt to achieve some of that in design review, you know, the real issue is whether or not we're in a flood zone, which we're not, and you know, whether or not we have to comply with flood regulations in order for our design to work, and we take the position that that's not the case here. Okay. Any questions from the board? Okay. May I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Ford and I tell you, if it needs us, the mayor's office of New Head Services. Hone has hosted a butters meeting for this project on July 6, 2022. No butters were in attendance on the off. The African House and the Evil Hills Civic Association in September and October of 2022. The Association voted to oppose with nine members against it and eight in support. Some concerns over a parking or race. No major concerns with loss of basement space because all units are small rentals. And they also stated that the ER has enough space for storage of trash and more. So at this time, our office would like to be for a judgment support. Thank you. Thank you. Any other public testimony? I have no raise hands in the chair. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, may we just clarity about why the PPDA thinks this is in a coastal flood resill? Resilience, your relate district? Jeff, are you? Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm never in support. We were recommended to know without prejudice. The reason why we put that language in there, even though it's not required, it's not an art of Canadian project. It is literally across the street from the flood zone. The other side of Chelsea Street is in a flood zone. So we added that language just to as a recommendation, not so much as requirement because as Attorney Lawrence has mentioned, it's not an art of a lady project, but we like to add that language just to have people as a recommendation for design, but literally across the street is the flood zone. Okay, so it's not in the flood zone. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay, may I have a motion? I make a motion for approval with the PPDA design review. I have a second. Second. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Madam Chair, I call Mr. Lynch, the Exterior Changes, right? That's how it is. Not. Yeah, there is not as I ask if we can dispense with the PP design review. Because I need to do design review of the Exterior Changes. Okay, Mr. Shepard, okay with that. I have a motion. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Second. Second. Mr. Shepard. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Olivier. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Last case, then. Last case. I. case. Be your way. One for zero. Six to four zero. At the address of the 333 Chelsea Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes. Good afternoon. Again, Madam Chairman of the board. Richard Lins of the business address of 245 Summars Street. He spots on behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chairman, back before the board, we did take an administrative deferral last year. We request the full board. I believe there's only five of the board present. As the slide deck is loading, I'll give a quick overview. This is a proposal to demolish existing single family dwelling on Chelsea Street. Very close to day square in East Boston. Our proposal would include the construction of new four unit residential dwelling. And I can walk through that once the plan populates on the screen. The bedroom sizes for each of the units. These are all being very generously sized two bedroom units or two bedroom plus units. And approximately anywhere from 1200 to about 13 areas square feet. The lower two levels would be flat-style units with the upper two levels, being by-level sharing a third of the fourth level. You don't propose any basement. Probably a good opportunity to talk about flood. This particular site has a portion of it located within the flood zone. And therefore we are building this with respect to compliance as it relates to flood design guidelines. We do propose roofed decks as well. Those would be private for the upper level units. We're also looking to access those by-head house. I mean by hatch, not by head house. This is probably a good place to start. As you can see to our left is press country which is the boundary between this section of the neighborhood and day square. Day square is the mixed use commercial district in East Boston. As you can see from what is shown on the screen here, the buildings both left and right are all recently built or developed sites. The building to our immediate left has already been approved by the board. Not for a fourth story for we're in a building quite similar if not almost identical to the project that we're presenting here today. And we jump down a couple of slides actually we're rendering that shows not only our building but the proposed buildings that have been approved in the area. This is a current street view showing the our building, the existing building to our left and then the newly built building at 331 if we could slide to the next slide. I just different view looking back up the street towards day square. Next slide please. Our existing building next slide please. And this is the rendering showing our building which is colored in red. The blue building is being shown as well as what has already been approved and are approved through design review with BPDA. So sort of rounding out the remainder of this block with very similar size buildings. All being for unit multi-family uses and each of those I believe also roof decks that are accessed by hatch. With respect to the relief that's us are this is located at 3F 2000 district, similar to the last presentation by just made to the same zoning regulations do apply. Being located close to day square as well as within walking distance of two public transit nodes. We are you know we feel that this project fits with the context of the surrounding area pretty well as well as what the newly built buildings are. I'll up and down that section of Chelsen Street. With respect to the relief that would be necessary again because it's 3F 2000 we require a variance for the use that's for units of multi-family use. The lot size is 1760 square feet which is not unlike the lots joining a book left and right. The minimum lot size for the district is 2,000 square feet however. As I mentioned we're trying to respect what is either existing in the area currently always been approved already for our setbacks and our lot coverage. We do have the minimum lot with and lot front of the requirements however we do set our building back on the left side just under a half foot which is the current condition that already exists and I want one of the things I will put out to the board is the building that currently sits on our site actually encroaches into our neighbor's property a bit. We would be removing that encroachment with the demolition of our of the existing building and correcting that condition with the new buildings being proposed. So although our left side yard is somewhat shallow it is actually an improvement over the current condition which is an encroachment over the boundary. We do include a little bit over 3 feet on the right hand side of our property that does allow us to introduce openings and windows on that side of the building as well as allow for access to the rear of the property. We are going to align our building with the model setback that's existing currently on the section of Chelsea Street. So certainly with all of the new construction that's occurred I believe the setback is pretty well determined and established for that part of Chelsea Street as well. We require variants for the Florida Erasure the 1.0 that is allowed in the district would be exceeded and therefore variants request law offer 2.86 the height of our building and again very important that we include this rendering while we be consistent with the buildings both left right and in that section of Chelsea Street we are about 8 feet above the 35 foot height limit that is permitted so a variant would be necessary for that as well. With respect to open space we do include roof decks and some balconies and therefore we would be providing available open space for the property however we would be below the 300 square feet that is required and therefore variants would be required as well. Our rear at setback is at 11 feet. We do require even though this is a shallow lot condition we still would require about 20 foot setback. I would point out that the current conditions of the existing house and the decks and the associated structures actually go all the way back to the rear property line so during demolition we would actually be creating an opportunity for some open space in the back that would be used in connection with creating a courtyard or a little bit of open space for the lower levels of this building. Last but not least is parking. With respect to parking for this site the zoning code calculation require a total of five spaces as indicated this is within a very short walking distance of the Bremen Street Park which has an entrance way to airport T station. We also are within a short walking distance to what island T station as well. While I know that parking always tends to be the concerns in the neighborhood we feel this particular location presents a great opportunity for some dental dental housing that is located in very close proximity to public transit and therefore we feel this will work contextually with the surrounding environment. I will pause to ask if there are any specific questions or concerns in the court or if there is additional information you require. Any questions? Mr. Collins, would you review the plans and any concerns? No the only question I really have is right now the building is over the other lot right and you're going to you're going to bring it back to what a 17-inch step back. It looks like it's 0.17 feet I believe Mr. Zackerson should be on the call as well as you can confirm the actual dimension but you know that is correct Mr. Collins we are over the boundary with an encroachment I believe it's about a half foot or I'm sorry might be a few inches so you're suggesting that we are correct in that is correct. No plans are adequate I don't have any additional questions. Thank you and the other questions from the board. Okay may I have public testimony? Madam Chair members of the board Christian Seminelli-Boston-Rowell at a trust and we have both G-Cod letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon my name is Chair members of the board on Italian Beneams at the Mayor's Office and Board Services. I want to ask hosting a new butters meeting for this project in May 24 2022. For butters joining the meeting the no support opposition was voiced. We did receive all our notes in the butters stating that parking is a major issue on this area. The applicant also met with Eagle Hill Civic Association as well as Malvick Central Neighbor Association. Eagle Hill voted so opposed due to the density lack of parking. Others did mention then we prefer housing and proximity to public transportation. It was a thrust and Malvick Central voted to support the project. At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair I have no rest hands. Sorry. Madam Chair we do have those letters from Boston World Super Commission saying it would be a requirement set forth on the ground, ground water, or wind district requirement and we do have a letter from Buffalo. Thank you. Mr. Hanson do you have recommendation? Yeah thank you Madam Chair members and board for 333 we recommend it to now without further this the reason why is we recommend that the same vote on 331 and what we had asked not 331 that if it was going to be approved that it would look like a triple-decker and it looks like it has been designed that way. So if the point feels we're staying consistent of our recommendations down this street but if the point feels that they are going to approve that we ask that it looks competitively same as the previous approvals along. And would BPD design review accomplish that or would you need a specific provider? I believe so yes. Yeah. Okay thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair I make the most move with BPD design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Schappler? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Miss Olivier? Yes. The chair also votes yes motion carries let's take a 20 minute break. Thank you very much Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Recording stopped.