 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you please to answer your question or concerns, please. Yeah, thank you. Can you confirm how many bedrooms do the units have now and how many are you proposing? Two bedrooms they have right now. Each floor has two bedrooms that exist, but one in the bedroom, the bedrooms is very, very small. So what I'm doing, I'm doing an extension in the back to add two more bedrooms, so that will make it for each floor three bedrooms each. And each one will go from two bedrooms to three bedrooms. Correct, except for the fourth floor addition, would be two bedrooms with one and a half bath. Okay, and is there any basement? There is a basement next right now. Yeah, there is a basement right now. We're not changing that basement. A basement unit or basement for storage? No, it's a basement for storage. It's mechanical, all the boilers, all the stuff in there. And also there is a fire scare, there is a back staircase, which is enclosed in the old structure as it exists right now. We're not touching that either. That's the second mean of the increase for all the units, including the new units that can be constructed also. It will have access to the pre-existing back staircase. And are you, sorry, are you just enclosing the porches to create the extra bedroom or no? We take in of those old porches because they very old, they've been over 20 years. And we make a small attention to the existence structure. And we're going to keep the same distance that exists right now, the distance from the porch, from the back porch, let me see if I can't shed screen. The right now on the first floor only, there's a big deck, as you see on the on the on the on the surveyor plough plan, there's a big deck on the first floor only, which is set back almost 7.5 feet. So the new structure will be set back eight feet from the, see that right there, where they are right here. There is a deck right now existing here on the first floor only, which is about 20 by 25 feet in long. It's set back from the neighbor about 7.5 feet. The new structure will be set back from the back fence about 8 feet, which would increase it by almost half a feet from the, from my back neighbor on the on surface. Okay. And it, it doesn't appear to me that there are any other four stories along Bremen, but I will. Oh, I have, I have on my slide, but I can actually my slide. That's a problem on my slide. I have addresses 130 Bremen Street erected in brand new structure for the addition to 68 Bremen Street also erected a fourth floor to 82 Bremen is a five story building. 340 Bremen Street is also a five story building. 398 Bremen Street is a brand new structure that I've been classed here also is the fourth story building. Madam Chair, it almost doesn't matter because the new zoning is ERB4. So it's complies mostly, mostly when we can ask you for relief section 8, which is a brief existence of as sufficient rail, insufficient side, insufficient front and square forest to offer, you know, obviously space insufficient. Mostly section 8 section 8 relief, please. Questions from the board? Sure. Yeah, I have a question just for clarity on your site plan with your proposed with your existing building. Yes. What is the existing very R setback? The first floor or a setback is 7.5 from the back fence. No, that's proposed. I'm asking what's your existing building? The proposed is 8 feet from the back. No, what's your existing building's very R setback? Existant building, including the deck that is erected on the first floor is 7.5 feet. There is an existing deck right now that's been there almost 20 years. So distance from the, yeah, go ahead. Let's clarify this. Right here. Let me just clarify this. Oh, sure. Right now in your survey plot plan, it's showing that the proposed floor story is 7 foot 5 from the rear yard setback. You're telling me that the existing house with the rear deck is still the same 7 foot 5. Yes. Well, in your, in the, on the Google images, it shows more than 7 foot 5. It shows it. So let's go to the next page. Yep, right here. Okay, okay. This is perfect. So where it says existing condition of the basement, which is grayed out, then it says common area, which is not grayed out. Yes. Common area that's not grayed out in the basement. Is that proposed or is that this is the proposed new proposed? Okay. So it seems to me dimensionally that what the gray box is, is your existing house. And if we go to the park plan, if we go to page three, if we go up to the survey park plan, it almost feels like it's the same footprint that is. It doesn't, it doesn't show a proposed floor site. It doesn't, there is a, it's either this thing is there in the back and it's having a happy. Yeah. This is, this exists today because the deck, it's things all the way there, the first floor deck, or you want to have a, uh, okay, I think what I'm missing is an existing survey plan. Exactly. You're missing a picture of that. I am missing that because what, once, let me just finish what's noted on a BPD, is that you're complying with high, you're complying with story, but they are commenting that it's not complying with the required ERB for rear-yard setback, which should be one third death of your original footprint. So what I'm trying to make is a case that if you're building to the existing, if your existing building's rear deck is only 7 foot 5, it would be a non-conforming kind of structure that already has a pre-existing rear-yard setback of 7 foot 5, which the feedback from the Boston Planning's recommendation doesn't necessarily apply, but I don't have that, actually, I don't have that document, right, right, where the director now. Can we do a short shift? We can do a short shift screen. Is there a better button? So I think I'm pretty much done with any questions, and my colleagues can perform a motion, but I would almost recommend defer to the next hearing to allow you to provide an existing floor plan. Okay. An existing survey plan. Okay. I don't have any further questions. I'm Mancher. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Let's take public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones, representing the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Regarding 218 Brenman Street, our office will defer to the board's judgment on this manner. A community process was conducted, including in a butters meeting held on 41624, which was attended by two constituents. The primary feedback from this meeting was opposition to the proposal, citing the character of the neighborhood, the construction noise, and construction trash, while the other attendee did not express opposition to support regarding the proposal. I have also received a petition against the proposal signed by 10 constituents and the butters. They were citing the loss of freeing space, the president being set the density and the lack of parking. The Maverick Central Neighborhood Association has met with the applicant. They can be, or they can be knocked 61924 and they have voted to oppose the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services, the first of the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you, everyone, for your time and consideration. Thank you. Mr. Somanali? Good afternoon, Madam Chairman. Mr. the board, Christian Somanali, Boston Rallar Trust. I'm here with both the chief oddletters from the applicant. Thank you. I'm like, sure we have no additional waste hands. Who got, do we own motion? Madam Chair, I would prefer a motion of deferral to the next hearing so the applicant can provide an existing survey of the club plan, if what he's mentioning is true. If he realizes that it's not correct what his assumptions were, I would really look at the Boston Planning's recommendation that notes that the building should ensure a very yard 1-3rd death and a lot coverage of 60%. But there is no issue with the height and stories. Thank you. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Lang? Yes. Ms. Wimow? Yes. Ms. Bedavaraza? Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. I'll ask the applicant to check in with ISD to make sure that you provide the information and are available for the next hearing. And the next date would be May 6th. May 6th. May 6th. You said? Yes. May 6th. Please submit the plot plan as well. I will definitely. I will. I have time. Thank you. May 6th. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I will be there for the day. Thank you. Have a good day, baby. Good day. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.