 I'm here, we all set. Yes. Man, chair, I don't see your feet shattered. We are right now. I guess the three of you is all trying to get what it is. Thank you. If you could, I would reach out to them. That would be great. Yes. Okay. Recording in the progress. Good morning. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing. The 9th, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 25, which hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panels and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panels are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives, elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most affected by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Z-Webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star mute to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. When that raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Shepard. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Bralza. Good morning, Madam Chair. Thank you. Ms. We well. Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam President. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. Good morning. Good morning, sir. All right, we are all here. I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. And also good morning to the number of employees. The first, with bright light and business, it is approval of hearing minutes from March 16 and March 28. May I have a motion? Motion to approve the minutes. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. We have a second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Next item, business. I'm sorry. Good morning. Thank you. I'm sorry for jumping ahead there. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berberazo. Yes. Ms. We well. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. All right, Mr. Stembridge. Now, next on the agenda. There we go. The extension is for 930. The first case is BOA 114226, the address being 81 Prince Street. This is the first request for an extension. The decision will expire on May 14th of this year, if granted, the new date will be May 14th of 2024. Hey, I see Mr. Zizula. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Apparently, Nick Zizula, McDermott, Quote and Miller. Here on behalf of the appellant, I'm looking to request a one-year extension as just right into the record. This project is to allow for change of occupancy from four apartments in one store to five apartments. We've been working with ISD on some kind of building code necessities and compliances for the conversion from this commercial use to a residential use in this unit. So they require a little bit more time in order to obtain a building permit from ISD, which is why we're requesting this extension. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? Make a motion, grant the extension to May 14th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Prada Baraza. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also wants to ask motion carries. The vote. Thank you. Next, we have case POA 803394 with the address of 246 to 248 doorchester revenue. This is the fourth request for an extension due to expire on May 11th of this year. If granted, the new date will be May 11th of 2024. Is the app in the... Oh, I apologize, Mr. Secretary. It's quite alright. Is the app in the... Yes, sir. I apologize. Attorney Nick Sizzula. Again, McDermott Quillty and Miller here on behalf of the app. This is an article 80 large-private review project in South Boston. It actually is an eight-story hotel with 159 rooms. This is... I think Mr. Secretary said that there are four extension requests to reason behind that is the developer still in the process of obtaining, you know, final construction financing to the project. It is a hotel, you know, financing and permitting has been delayed due to complication still from COVID-19, which was the reason for the first few requests and then now rising construction costs and commercial lending rates for a hotel have been difficult to obtain. But the, you know, the hotel industry appears to be rebounding hopefully. Afterx, you know, experiences some pretty bad declines, specifically in Boston. So, you know, we've experienced further delays in getting that financial commitments in place for final construction plans. But the appellant is committed to the project, is hopeful to that with this additional time they can secure the financing needed to obtain the building permit. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the ward? May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension to May the 11th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stoneroach? Yes. Mr. Schupper? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Paiberaza? Yes. Ms. Wigo? Yes. Mr. Langem? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you for your time. Next we have case BZC32903 with an address of 188 High Street. This is the sixth request for an extension which will expire on May 6th, which expired on May 6th, 2023. It granted the new date will be May 6th, 2024. The entity request was submitted before the expiration date. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Timber. Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Du Boer. My name is Du Boer. My name is Du Boer. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Timber. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Timber. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Goethe Moran. My name is Goethe Moran. I'm going to start by stepping in as purchasers of this approved project and seek the final extension of the grant and zoning relief. As a brief procedural history, this matter was originally approved in 2013 as a 14-story 50-key boutique hotel. I was not the attorney for the project when it was approved. This that time there have been four significant events which have served Du Boer. The project zoning approvals current and there are also just occasion. The one is being requested today as a final extension of the grant and zoning relief. There were two lawsuits. One was repealed the project approval which kept the project zoning approvals current as a matter of law in which was not settled until 2018. And then there was another lawsuit which was resolved in June of 2022. In between the resolution of those two, it was of course the endemic and as a fourth matter, this board has, as Mr. Tembridge noted, granted formal extensions. Most recently last January, what it granted the current one year extension. My client, as I said, have stepped in as purchasers of the project. The mini-plans IFC last year changed the project by reducing its height and room count. This board, acting under its board final audit authority, approved those revised plans in September of last year. And the VPDA granted final design approval final design review approval in December of 2022. My client had construction financing lined up, anticipating able to break ground this summer and they asked the board today for one final extension. Thank you for providing that detail, Mr. Lerancy. May I have a motion? Only a motion to grant the extension until May 6, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Tembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Yes. Mr. Mizuolo. Yes. Mr. Leran. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case, VOA-11029221 with the address of 837 Saratogos Street. This is the first request for extension, which will expire on June 22nd of this year. If granted, the new day will be June 22nd of 2024. Is the applicant board representative present? Yes. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Linz, a business address of 245 Summers Street, is Boston on behalf of the petitioner Nelson Diolabera. Madam Chair, a brief history of this project was approved by the board back in 2021 to change occupancy from three units with six unit building. The applicant is in the process of finalizing BPD design review. A number of structural and building code issues have to be addressed. An anticipate is getting back relatively soon. And therefore, the request for the extension is for one year to allow them to complete that. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension to June 22nd, 2024. Madam Chair, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Biberalza. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wo. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B08, 118, 3158, with an address of 99 Maverick Street, which will also be represented by Mr. Lengom. You know, the first extension in the... That would be good. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is the first request for extension. The decision expires on August 25th of this year. If granted, the new date will be August 25th. What will you put you for? Thank you, Mr. Lengom. Yes. Again, good morning. Madam Chair, members of the Board, that's in the back of your trip. The business address is $2.45 on the behalf of the petitioner. Similar to the last one, this board voted to grant relief back in 2021 for this project to develop a vacant lot into a multi-family... ...build it. This is also involving a number of permitting issues, including the review of the site for vaults for a transplant. So we are requesting additional time or finalize those issues with honesty. Thank you. May I have a motion? Make a motion to grant the extension to August 25th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Slewow. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-1-1-1-0-0-0-7. The address being 47 Connter Street. This is the first extension for this press request for extension, which will expire on June 2nd of this year. If granted, the new day will be June 2nd, 2024. And that will be Mr. Lengom also. All right. Thank you. Last but not least, thank you again to Madam Chair, members of the Board, Richard Lengom, 2.45 Submissue on behalf of the petitioner. Once again, the board and graduates are leaving June of 2021 for this project. This is a seven-unit building with 11 parking spaces located on our street. The financing for this project is just about complete. And they will ultimately be able to finalize that permit and BPE designer view. And hopefully receive to occur within the coming months, therefore requesting a one-year extension. All right. Thank you, Mr. Lengom. Mr. Stembridge. Sorry. May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant the extension till June 2nd, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Lengom. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. The chair also votes yes, motion carries. Billette, Mr. Lengom. Thank you very much. Next we have two companion extension cases. The first being case B-O-A903-635 with the address of 235 Layland Street. This is the third request for extension which was due to expire on June 14th of this year. If granted, the new day will be June 14th of 2024. Is the applicant or their representative present? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Lawrence, and Dean O'Hare. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Lawrence, and Dean O'Hare, business address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. Here on behalf of the owner, Dana and Tnuchy, we are requesting a third extension on this matter. My client was hindered by COVID at the very beginning and then the rise in cost of construction and financing. This is an owner occupied building which is being subdivided for her family to then build a two-unit dwelling next door to her parents. So we are just requesting a further one-year extension and order for my client to finalize everything from June 14th, 2023 to June 14th of 2024. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to grant the extension for both cases to June 14th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Mr. Carrey's good luck. Thank you. Next we have Keynes. The B08113713 with the added being 375 comes highway. This is the first request for extension. The decision will expire on March 24th of this year. The applicant is seeking a sixth mark extension. Is the applicant order representative present? Yes. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Madam Chair. Attorney John Fulgini on behalf of the applicant for 375 come in highway. The request for this extension, this prior project was originally proposed under a different developer. It was sold to my client back in August of 2022. Since that time, we've been going through the process with the BPDA to do several revisions under a notice of project change. Those redesigns include reducing parking from up to 61 parking spaces to up to 30 parking spaces. Increase open space, increase affordability, relocating the existing bus shelter and associated sidewalk, widening and repairs, and also providing a new solar bus shelter for the people that live in that community. We are scheduled to go into the BPDA for one of Thursday night's first revisions and then we'll be back before you approach us to get zoning relief for the changes that we've worked out with the BPDA. To confirm you're looking for a six-month extension from March 2024 or from today? I would say, if we could get it, it's just getting the construction drawings because of their happen designs. Maybe in one year from today, but it's not going to take that long. It would be, or even one day from March, that's not, and in one year from March, it's not as long. Okay, thank you for confirming. Any questions? Would that may have a motion? Make a motion to grant the extension to March 24, 2024. Now the second. You say Glenton. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barbaraza. Yes. Mrs. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also wants to ask motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have case B-O-A1027373. The address is 171 to 179 over the street. This is the second request for extension, which will expire on May 15th of this year. It granted the new date will be May 15th of 2024. Yeah, we can. Over there, Mr. President. Yes. My name is Navier Lear here with Jennifer Hall of U-Architecture, or over the business address of 1-81 Bonan Street in Dorchester. Our client had been impacted by COVID, and we're really close to submitting. We have Boston Waters, your MBPDA approvals, and all the drawings are done. We're just waiting for some final sign-offs from public works. So we just need that extra little bit of time to get everything in and submitted. Great. Thank you, Mr. Newler. May I have a motion? I make a motion to grant extension till May 20, 2024. Is it May 20 or May 15th? I'm sorry, May 15th, sir. Thank you. May I have a second? A second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berrazer. Yes. As we welcome. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Chair also goes, yes. Motion carries, good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B08, 101, 59, 55. The address being 296 Columbus Avenue. This is the second request for an extension to expire May 15th of this year. If granted, the new day will be May 15th of 2024. Is the applicant what it represents present? Yes. I just made up a panelist. Jeremy, when you become a panelist, you can unmute yourself. Speak on the case. Thanks for the phone. Jeremy, can you hear us? Hello. I'm sorry. Technical issues here. Can you hear me now? Yes. Good morning. My name is Jeremy Cole. I'm the owner of 296 Columbus Avenue. I'm a requesting for an extension for nearly a year due to COVID related health issues and monetary issues, job loss, etc. I've not been able to get the fire protection stuff ready to move ahead to get the permit. So I need some more time. Thank you Mr. Langen. Motion to grant the extension to May 15th, 2024. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schappelich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Barbraza. Yes. Ms. Huwau. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries the Luxor. Thank you. The last extension to be requested is case BOA 109 6128 with the address of 10 Wacken Street. This is the first request for extension. The decision will expire on May 21st of this year. If granted, the new day will be May 21st, 2024. Is the applicant or the representative of the president? Yes. Good morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is Andrew Litchfield, 10 Rocken Road. Robin Street. Sorry. I'm looking forward extension for one year. I've just completed BPD-8 review. Post-a-Water and sewer clean. I am waiting to hear back from the planning examiner regarding the permit documents that I submitted to ISD. Thank you. May I have a motion? I make a motion to make the extension to May 21, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schappel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Can I at least use Mr. Valencia? Sorry, but I'm new to you. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Mr. Rural. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ma'am. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We will now move into the hearing schedule for 9.30 AM. Before we go there, are there any requests or deferrals or withdrawal at this point? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Stembridge. Richard Linz. 94 Mares Street. Please. Thank you. Thank you. That was a second. And that's a companion case, sir. Yes, it was a long time. Thank you. Yes, there are two visits for 94 Mares. Why do you leave the spelling card? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. It's waiting on the system. Mr. Stembridge, can we read it into the record? The first being case, VOA. 1285218. Yes, the address being 9.30 AM. Ma'am Street. The second being case, VOA. 1285217. The address also being 9.30 AM. What Ma'am Street. And sorry. Someone was speaking to that. Yes, Mr. Lenses. Yes. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Chair. I'm Mr. Portford. Richard Linz. 2.45 Sumner Street. East Box. The behalf of the petitioner. Requesting a short referral for this matter. I have a couple of items we would like to try to revisit with some of the abutters. And we feel that the referral would give us a little bit of a chance to get the referral. Thank you. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. We have a little bit of a chance to get the referral. Mr. Roles. That's fine. Fine. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? Make the motion. I will get something. Make the motion to defer to July 11th. May I have a second? Exactly. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barbaraza. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Mr. Carries. Thank you. If there are no further withdrawals for the girls, then we will supply them the case. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. Mr. Schupper. I have approval. May I have a... Do you need to be able to wrap this on the roof? I don't. I believe now it's a pretty straightforward project and they're going to pretty much renovate to kind of existing character of the building. Hey, man, I'm a second. Second. Mr. Schupper, Mr. Semberg. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next we have case B088. Excuse me. Case B081438826. With the address of 86 St. Patal Street. The applicant or the representative president. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz. With Adams and Marancy. Now there's this address of 168 H. St. First, before Salt Blastin. With me today is the architect Matthew Ryder. Madam Chair, would you like to address the G-Card issue first? You can do them together. Okay. Great. Okay. So the G-Card, so I just want to start off with both letters, have been submitted for the G-Card. No harm and compliance has been submitted to boss of our assurer. I'm not sure. Kristen Simon, Ellie, can testify to that upon the ending of this preparation. Madam Chair, members of the board. This proposal in front of us today is a change of occupancy from an 18 person lodging house to 13 residential units. Footprints of the building will remain. I think it's important to understand the history of this. This building has been in the same family ownership since the mid-1980s. And has always been operational as a 13 unit apartment. In fact, the building has been taxed as a 13 unit for quite some time. Applicants were provided documents since the 2000s by the city of Boston, showing that they've been taxed as 13 units. But the owners also believe that it's been released since the 1980s where they would be in tax from. There were major structural issues that needed to be addressed with this building. And when the order files for the permit, the lodging house occupancy was first discovered here. Now, the owners have taken this opportunity to simply clean up the jacket and to upgrade all the life safety requirements including alarm and full fire suppression system. The building has no record of a lodging house with the licensing commission and has never had a yearly inspection. There's been conversations with the BPDA and the applicant has agreed to enter into an affordable housing agreement committing two of those units as affordable. Pages three and four will give you a comparison of the existing layouts and the proposed layouts. As you will know, very similar in shape and size in dimensions. Pages five to seven and 14 to 19 will provide you a little bit more in-depth of the factual floor plans. Pages eight and ten and twenty from twenty three will provide you with the elevation drawings. Those are comparison of the existing elevations and was being proposed showing that the elevation will not be changed. As far as the layout, the basement space will continue to be storage. First floor will consist of three units made up of a two bedroom, one studio, and one bedroom. Second floor in the third floor will consist of three units each. Two bedroom and two one bedrooms. Two floor will consist of four units and we are two bedroom, one bedroom and two studios. The one thing that you will note that the new proposed roof plan will consist of a moderate expansion of the head house which will not be visible from the street. This has gone to landmarks and has been approved. So again, in concluding here, this is simply an application to clean up the jacket. We have the building that has serious foundation issues and to bring it up to compliance with building code as well as life-stakes standards. So at this time, I'm going to pass it over and pause for a minute for any questions, comments or concerns. Thank you, Mrs. Spitz. Any questions from the ward? The only question I have is for the architect in terms of the required two modes of egress. Can they speak on that? Because how many see one mode of one egress? And this is four stories. Yes, right now. Yes, this is Matthew Ryder. Thank you. So yes, so for the building code because we are under four units per floor for the first three floors and it's a sprinkler building. We're only required one mean of egress and on the fourth floor. Obviously, we have the main stairwell and then we have our second means is via fire balcony out to the adjacent building which is currently in place. And it's being replaced to meet current fire mode as well. Great. Thanks for explaining that. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a question for Attorney Spitz. So you said that two of the units will be designated as affordable units? Yes, correct. Yes. So we began the initiation conversation with the BPA and we further discussed that the owner is willing to commit to those units. So if approved, we'll reach back out to the BPA and enter into an affordable housing agreement that we'll have to go back in front of the BPA board for approval. Okay. So then this voluntary rate is not, obviously not subject to inclusionary provisions or. It's quite interesting because you know, what is required is anytime that you are constructing ten units or more. And this is an interesting scenario where it's been operational as there are egress. You know, our first interaction with the BPA is that we were going to willing to commit to the affordability component of it providing two units. And have those details to be worked out with the BPA such as which units, the AMI percentage? Yes, typically rentals is approximately about like 60 to 70% AMI. And there won't be any two units on the same floor. But again, we'll work out those details with the BPA is, you know, we tried to have that discussion. They said on approval, what can we work in? Thank you. I'll go quickly. Any other questions? May I have public testimony? Yes. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Maggie Vance, who I am from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time our office would like to defer the judgment of the board. We held an embatter's meeting for this proposal. And this applicant has also been in contact with the local civic association. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time. Thank you. Morning Madam Chair and members of the board. I appreciate some of the early blocks to grow across when we have both letters from the AMI. Thank you, Mr. Seminelli. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I will be here just to find clarification. Do we need two votes on the G-Card and Madam? We have two votes. You can do all of them. Great. Madam Chair and members of the board. Councilor Rasmich, a flag. Councilor Dormack, and a support. Thank you. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with two provisels. One being at two units, the designated as IDP units. And the second one being that there will be no good or relief. And to use included the G-Card? Is that necessary, come here? Yes. I would like to just approve for G-Card and to approve that. I would like to approve for two provisels, the designated by a hand. Yes, so can you add that, Mr. Barrazo? To also approve the G-Card. Thank you, Madam. Second. So I stick with that again. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Barrazo. Yes. Mr. Lange. Yes. Mr. Lange. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Great. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 14449-6-1. The address of 354 East Street. This is also a B-P-A-R-L-A-B-R budget. Is the applicant with the representative? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. The voting, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George R. M. Sam, an attorney with the Business Adress, 351-8. Madam Chair, members, this is a matter of perfecting the record of the case, which was already approved by this board. This application was approved by the Z.D.A. in December 6th. The decision was filed by the Z.D.A. on January 20th of this year. I noted when drafting the decision, I should have noted before drafting the decision that the ISD plan examiner had missed two violations on the original zoning refusal letter. I brought this to the attention of ISD and a second zone refusal letter issued citing the two violations originally missed, which are insufficient additional law to area for dwelling units and insufficient open space for dwelling units. The purpose of this here is to approve, hopefully, and add to the package of zoning relief granted to the project law of December, these two violations. Thank you. Any questions from the board? With that, Mayor, will the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board of all soul in City Council large, Michael Fliarty, echoing the sentiments of the Councilor, President Glenn's office as well as acknowledging the communal effort that went into drafting Article 68, the Council just feel that they're proud of the do-one of this being one of them. The proponent did state this was a case that was approved previously approved by the board Acquist him as council funds office council to go on against board Thank you mark. Do you look any tests money here? Yes, good morning. I'm at a chair My name is Agnes the board. My name is map corner. I'm an attorney at the firm of O'Hagen Meyer my business address is 111 Huntington Avenue. I represent six members of the community In the South Austin community Cynthia lady John Flaherty Linda Flaherty Robert Flaherty In re-flaherty and Kathleen Sawyer my clients are among dozens of Members of the community who have submitted letters of objection to this project There's I am counsel to these to the six party these these six of the community members in Pending litigation and in some superior court with respect to both this project and the project The Jason project at 363 E Street I'm simply given the given the the The status of the case where we have pending litigation with respect to both of these cases and particularly where this this is likely to be to To be to change the any litigation. I just wanted to to note that my clients are still still Still continue to jack off project as do many members of the community. Thank you Thank you no additional race hands With the applicant like to address that before we proceed Morning chair George Marancy no, I don't think there's any need to address that there's a pending litigation. I will acknowledge that Thank you any any final questions from the board May I have a motion Madam chair Alexa before a motion of approval with the list of provisels as indicated in the BPD a Board approved memorandum including the inclusion of six IDP Units and a ground floor community space dedicated for the general public May I have a second? second Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Shepard Yes, Mr. Valencia. Yes, this is better for us. Yes, this we will yes, Mr. Langham. Yes Sure, also, yes motion carries Thank you Next we have case B.O.A. one two one Seven five 37 Pearl Street It's the applicant for their representative present Yes, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair members of the Honour attorney Ryan Smith's Meransey business owners of the 68th Street South Boston are with me today is the architect David Greene This is a proposal that means the occupancy from a true unit dwelling to a six unit dwelling by renovating Preserving the existing structure and by way of a two-dumor addition to the existing structure in a three-story rare addition The rare additional extend the existing structured by approximately 53 feet and five inches long and a approximately 38 feet Six inches wide there will be eight off-street parking spaces in the rear of the property access by an existing driveway property is located within a two f five thousand sub district the total lot size is 9,721 square feet The units were ranged from approximately 1462 square feet to 1595 square feet This thing's structure that's being preserved will contain units one in unit two basement space will be allocated for storage First floor plan will consist of living area dining room and kitchen Second floor plan will consist of two bedrooms in a bathroom Third floor will consist of an additional bedroom in a bathroom The addition will contain units four through six and will also be connected to Via an existing structured by a staircase in the middle of the two two buildings basement will consist of an office space media room and utility room for units three and four There will be a walkout means of egress for unit three and there will also be two window wells for unit four First floor will consist of units three and four living area teaching dining room in a one bedroom Second floor will consist of five units five and six two bedrooms in a study Third floor will also be allocated to units five and six living area dining and kitchen Pocking will be accessed by an existing driveway on the right hand side of the property There will be eight parking spaces in the rear of the property We have four zoning violations We have now side of the driveway as the required opening is 10 feet and we have nine feet five inches which is pre-existing The youth multi-family use is forbidden, but this use is consistent with some of the recently approved projects in the neighborhood For area ratio we have a violation of what it is combined as a point five we're proposing a 1.06 And again the last violation that we have is height we're complying with the feet, but if excessive in the stories as we're proposing three stories Uh, at this time I'm going to pause for any questions Thank you. This puts any questions from the board I have a question. Was there any when you reduced the number of units from eight to six? Was there any discussion about removing some of the parking to more of a one-to-one ratio? Um, no the the neighborhood the neighborhood was actually asking for more parking um than what we could actually provide Um, that was one of the you know critical factors when going to the community process that we were experiencing Yeah Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Man, public testimony Good morning Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services The applicant has completed their community process Our office held in the butter meeting in February of this year and two of the seven voters in a team in support of the project while I was expressed Concerns that will resolve the local civic associations general membership voting to support the project on an 11 to 10 vote line While the planning committee on the civic group voted against the project three to seven we'd like to defer to the board's judgment at this time. Thank you Mr. Carpain, you mentioned issues that will resolve can you just mention those briefly if you're aware? It was just the general issues of the traffic and congestion and stuff Okay, and there's also the system general confusion, but it was just resolved during the meeting as well Okay, thank you. You're welcome Who raised hands tomorrow. See we're gonna get testimony here Yes, yes good morning Madam Chairman members of the board the mayor's walkery on the rest 16 degrees straight directly behind the post Um, we are opposed to this topic and as it will be that we have 5000 little daughter I'm looking at environmental noise pollution and we also purchased this home because of the ratio to single family homes So mostly family homes in the neighborhood and this is going to directly affect us Thank you John Yes My name is John Simeil. I'm an 18-bit 43. I'm about next to a name of your demand and with Her husband and daughter My properties are probably most impacted by this new development because I from a kitchen window I have a perfect view of This property and it will be my preference to have a 4 and 8 situation because In the 40 years that I've lived here in this house I see traffic at worse and worse and worse I think we'll Live in the south end or south often and though Parked cousin do under toy street where we have no Western parking and then over left dog to wherever they want to go Costumes from out of state. I will pop their cars over toy street and leave them there for a couple weeks Until street sweeping comes up So I would like to see a foreignate Just because I had to make my own request to the your board to put a driveway in between my house and my name is a number 20 Simply so we can have a place to park I wore it night and frequently when I come home I would never place a park on my street Thank you so we understand so you're concerned about the parking in this the number of units. Got it You have no additional those things Great any other questions from the board With that may I have a motion motion And I'm sure outlook for a motion of approval with chair provisos One being with bp is on review and the other is To Reduce the parking so To allow for more open a open space at the rear Is that in conjunction with btd Yes, so that's what bpd site review site planning review bpd a site. Okay. Thank you. Uh may I have a second Yes Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Ms. Barraza Yes Ms. Wewell Yes Mr. Lano Yes Chair also votes yes the motion carries Great thank you Thank you Next case it will be away 144 8154 The address of 183 for a street Is the applicant or their representative president Yes Good morning Madam Chair members of the board Andrew Litchfield with 183 for a street What I'm proposing is a two family on a currently vacant lot The two family will consist of two three bed two and a half bathroom units Roughly 1440 square feet in 1475 square feet total The basement will be unfinished We have two parking spaces that apply with parking ratio The lot size currently is 4,250 square feet So I'm in violation of the insufficient Lot size of 5,000 square feet aside setback Is supposed to be 10 feet I am at 7.2 Feet in the front yard Setback is 15 feet and I am at 5.2 feet That isn't to the porch and then to the house it's about 10 feet It's pretty much in line with the neighborhood and the characteristics of the neighborhood Mostly two families and three families around this area The first floor will be a kitchen living area Second floor will be bedrooms at a bathroom and an office in the front Then the third floor will be the primary suite with an ensuite bathroom Any questions from the board? Okay Man, welcome testimony Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Eric James of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services The applicant for 183 Forestry had a butters meeting where they had two of butters meetings One on May 4th of last year and the other of March 15th of this year They met with the Dorchester Unified Neighborhood Association That concluded that penny investments did not and has not provided plans Showed how to pose how to address the violation of wisdom on the zoning analysis Signing with Baldwin violations they cited the insufficient lot size Excessive FAR insufficient yard Setback and insufficient front yard setback So they also stated that they will not be providing support at this time They've also voiced a few concerns in addition to that They voiced that the plans provider are not to scale and then you'd rather provide renderings, images Evolutions or view elevations or viewpoints therefore not allowing for complete and accurate review by the neighborhood association and From that point on they also Sorry, if not for all they also stated that the plan describes a two and a half story dwelling with two donors on a slope Group they believe that this provide headspace for one full floor not a half story Therefore destruction essentially be for force for close per unit one underground the basement Bedroom and three stores above ground the applicant voice concerns about the time of this feedback from the done association Stating that he believes had these recommendations come sooner He would have had more time to work with the neighborhood association address these concerns He states that he has reached out to done our multiple occasions to get their feedback on this project And did not proceed the recommendation for opposition until last week So as of now our office has two letters of support and one letter of opposition and we are deferring our jump into report on this matter. Thank you Thank you House of our office Thank you Madam Chair The more Madam Chair members of the board my name is Ayamidou we will put the office to the council of Brian Morelle in regards to one in three full of street Um, we had received the two letters of support and then the one letter of opposition from done Speaking to the process that we went we actually never met with the developer at all Nor did we receive a copy of the plans and in addition to that one speaking to To do just your unit vibes leadership We also found out that some of their plans seem to be missing from the overall Planning document and they also did not address the zoning violations Some of these things. So please don't repeat what mr. James just repeated. We did hear that already apologies With that being said Let's go record in the opposition to the offer for the community engagement Thank you Madam chair Make 10 sorry. We're taking public testimony first. We'll circle back to you I found that But just a little bit How far is this here? No, I'm sorry. That was a mistake. I can't help it. He's here for another case. Any other reasons? Oli My name is Oli and Griffin. I do live at 76 Morris Street the construction is like correctly behind me um I do feel that he should have it. I agree with it is because we do need more little space on that street Like everybody's like literally on top of each other over there. Thank you. Thank you. No additional vaccines Okay, thank you mr. Lichrid do you want to address that concern? Yeah, so I just wanted to Address that community process. I was in front of the board back in September for a three-family project that was denied um Again, I got my feedback from the done association the day of the hearing This time it was the day yesterday I pride myself on working with the community in the community process At the well-deaf butter's meeting in the done the association meeting There were no questions no concerns No one said help me like it and you know, so that's why I continue with the process. So I just wanted to make sure um, you know, I share that with you What and can you speak to any of the substance of the concerns that mr. James retro Yeah, so you mentioned a few um, well you mentioned the two and a half stories the two and a half stories is is Based on the living square footage of that third floor So it's half the living square footage of the other floors If that was shared with me um in any other meetings with the done association I would have gladly clarified that as well as um any missing documents I'm just looking at my plans right now and you know that may have been just um Miss error. I do have my architect Eric zackers in here if you want to speak on that briefly, but um, you said there was some pages missing but I believe that that was just um An error on their on actual plans and no plans were actually missing Thank you any other questions from the board Okay, but that may have a motion I'm sure I can motion to upload with you the same period May I have a second? Sorry mr. Stembridge Yeah, mr. Shepherd Yes Mr. Valencia Yes, this better bronzo. Yes, mr. Langem Yes There are also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Next we have case b 0 8 144 6415 With the address being 524 River Street Is African Who are there representative? Good morning Mid-Ancher Members of the board attorney David Sionland with um An hour walk PLL see business address three Pearl streets sweet nine stoten mass You're on behalf of uh Francesco Camillo and Camillo Lickers Um Ciel Lickers is a seeking relief from the board of appeals to change the occupancy From a store to a liquor store For conditional use Kind has a liquor store meal liquor store, which is at um seven edge water drive Um is being evicted from that op property at no fault of his own and the owner that property wants it for different loose He's uh recently purchased now 544 River Street which At Jason to um seven edge water drive um It's literally right next door. I think the front door is approximately 15 to 20 feet apart um There's only one liquor store in this uh neighborhood He's been a business there for 10 years um status quo We'll prevail in the neighborhood besides this cost of location to such uh since there's only one liquor store there for a decade Nothing's changing about the use So there should be no Adverse effect to the neighborhood Um, there should be nothing detrimental that comes of this to the neighborhood General purpose in attendance relocation is for the public burden or our small business owner He lives in the city of Austin. He's been in that neighborhood operating a liquor store for 10 years To stay in in business as uh is no longer um going to be at the old location Again, I like I mentioned he purchased the new uh the new store directly next door Uh, there won't be any new sense in the neighborhood No change in our vehicles or pedestrians This new property provides our adequate facilities For his uh use, his proposed use He has tracked pickups in place building sweep security The same uh the same he had with his prior property right next door There for the requirements of section six stash three for special permits have been met Community meeting was held There was uh No, uh, no one no one really opposed it um And again, Mr. Camillo you know small business owner lives in the city It's been operating this liquor store Yeah, directly adjacent to um Thank you. Can you confer the hours and and what is there any Size difference between his current location and this proposed location I believe they're comparable in size um Mr. Camillo is actually on here if uh if we could probably Then he can not answer that question as to hours and all size Yeah, hello. Yes, good morning Yes, hi, good morning, my name is Francisco Camillo Yeah, the hours of operation is a Monday to start with night to eleven And Sunday is a tour to eleven Is that the same as it is currently? Yes, it's at the same time. They were just knowing yeah, and what about the size of the two I wasn't yeah, the new building is a kind of way of small of the one that we have right now Smaller, okay, yeah, I just wanted to add Any other questions from the board? If you if you'd like I can show a I can share my show The uh the other lines for both of it we don't we can't share screen but um any other questions from the board Uh, that chair just be clear this so this this new store will replace any existing for That correct yes Um I probably during the Magic probably during the opportunity and put I like Of course, yes, we'll definitely get to that um Madam chair, I do have a question. Yes, sir Yeah, I also have questions, but yeah, keep going Mr. Shapa On this view right here the card one will no longer be in business I believe he said he's losing his lease is that correct? Yes. Yes. That's why we move in this stuff Right, so you're replacing businesses Yes, yes And what was the use of the current one is is it closed down is it Is it really in shooting's company? Okay Miss uh better browser Um Um, I'm just now now it's clear in terms of uh, I was a little I was thrown off in terms of where the sighting was for the project But I do see that the basement has a six foot um clearance you're not using the Is the basement in use for storage? Uh, yeah, I thought for starters. I mean, yeah, just for storage. Okay. Yeah, you're talking Okay, I have no further questions. Um, thank you. Thank you Okay, maybe we should we can uh jump to community process since I think That's uh concern Good morning madam chair members of the board are James and Mary's office of neighborhood services The applicant had attended community meetings on March 5th 2022 with the great amount of hand-over council of service committee able to able fit 2022 with the edgewater neighbor association as well as in a button's meeting run by the mayor's office On May 17th of 2022 at these meetings residents as well as members of the church of the whole be spirit show concerns regarding The establishment's proximity to an ABCD facility senior housing as well as issues with lettering and noise services from patrons of the killer letters Um, parking as well as maintenance of the area were also concerns as there was opposition for the proposal There was also shown uh, there was also support shown at the neighborhood association meetings and above his meetings The mayor's office would like to highlight the applicant lived in the community and has reached out to continue conversations As well as agreed to work with all residents and neighborhood businesses to help address any issues They may have including maintenance of the sidewalks last areas around the more workers as well as church grounds So at this time the mayor's office would like to first address the board on this matter. Thank you Mr. James, are you are you aware of any issues with the current location on edgewater? Um, we have not received any um any any any opposition or any concern for the location You Any other testimony just go No, sorry Okay, do I have a hand raised here? Can you look at a testimony here? Uh, yes, I'd love to Okay, can you stay your name and address for the record and briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition Uh, my name is Kimmelow, but no familial relations. It actually spelled differently just their coincidence um, I Worked about a hundred feet from the record star um, I have learned uh, I've grown to to light and uh, no more about this stuff over the last few years As we both served together on the matter pan to pounce its small business and security coax Council sort of meeting group that we've prepared that's run by reverence and aided Jones He's been instrumental and active the entire time and making the community better and I really appreciate it Um, I am one of the buildings that had many peep that I work inside one of the buildings that many of the people that say that there are a lot of issues to do the liquor store Should be affecting and while there are liquor bottles that is not necessarily his fault And he does do a very good job in trying to make the place better and safer Uh, overall, he's been a real asset to the community Um, I'm really glad I met him You're in support of just the conference uh strong support of it Not to mention his thank you Um, David, are you looking to give testimony here? Yes, I just wanted to point out that uh, that my client is also already He's the attorney, that's okay, I guess He's really received it through this from the city of Boston licensing board and that ABCC There's already been through that uh entire process for moving the license from the Preview Than we want it. Were there any other raised hands, Jessica? No Okay, thank you Okay, any other questions from the board? Uh, just to be clear manager um, so If whoever can speak to this What they're hitting has deep business been cited for any violations in the past um In terms of our or from the city No, no violation we don't have no violation in the business Thank you Thank you That may have a motion Thank you Well, I'm just looking at the proposal the proposal is not creating a new impact is just continuing what Was already there Even the places going to be smaller for the newly restored so with that I would like to put forward the motion to upload You're on the second. I second Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepherd Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Miss Betta-Barrosa Yes Miss Miro Yes Mr. Langham Yes The chair also votes yes motion carries been long Thank you Next we have case BOA 1436463 The address of 132 central avenue Is the applicant or their representative president? Yes, I am Mr. Stembridge Good morning One Go ahead Yes sir Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board Attorney Derek Small, I have a business address of 51 dobs and robe Today we're here seeking relief to erect a three-family dwelling on a vacant lot The zoning sub district here is a 1F And our lot's out 1F6000 and our lot's size is 4,200 and 90 square feet The violation to our sparrows I'm a separate brand new Of the three family in this zoning sub district Our lot with requiring minutes 60 feet we have 58 feet Building height requirement and zoning sub district is 2.5 stories 35 feet We are at three stories, but we are below The required foot footage which is at 32 Front yard is insufficient is to require this 25 feet. We have 16 and a half feet And side yard violation is that requirements 10 feet and we have approximately 4 feet In the rear yard is as requirement is 40 feet we have approximately 13 feet Madam Chair, the unit sizes are 3 bedroom, 2 baths On the first unit approximately 14 and square feet Unit 2 is 3 bedrooms, 2 baths and approximately 1,400 square feet And unit 3 is a 2 bedroom One bath at approximately 1,300 square feet I'll stop there and entertain any questions at the board or anyone may have Thank you Any questions from the board Madam Chair, yes, a question I'm looking at the Google maps and it seems there is a big tree in the back of the property And if that is correct, correct, whatever plans for that tree I don't think there is a tree in the on the property I don't think that there is. I was at the property yesterday Okay, maybe that is in what makes sure Yeah, thank you Great, any other questions from board? Yeah, I have one question My any's in the audience Sorry, just checking this is that tree now How that that upper right hand corner It says 42 inches tree at the rear property line Mr. Small I didn't have any questions again Well, Mr. Holizey's question was around the tree You stated that you didn't think there was a tree I didn't know what that was I was at the property yesterday But if that is the case, I think the tree will be removed and then we will plant another tree Of smaller size Any other questions from the board? Yeah, I have one question Yes, sir. I need these yours going to be affordable units Um, the order is currently prepared for his family to move to this country So they will be family is family owned because the property owner owns the house next door at 130 Central app and he's building it for family members Okay Also are you proposing proposing a parking space where it says number one because that would be considered front-ear parking? Yeah Yes, it would Okay, what we were proposing was one there and then two tandem spots But we can be moved that parking space that says number one As a result of you know, we had talked with the butters We were trying to get as much parking on the site as possible We're only having a spot listed as number one we move from the site you can see this from the parking Okay, thank you Any other questions With that may have a testimony Can members of the board I'm not sure why I'm popping up as Connor, but this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office Of neighborhood services at this time. We wish to defer judgment to the board I host an abutters meeting for this proposal on December 2nd of 2022 and some of butters that were there Address concerns for the number of areas as the applicants are seeking the proposal with three family and a one family's owning subject district and Tandem parking our office encourages direct communication between applicants and community members and attorney Derek Small did leafless contact information for butters to connect with him directly about the project The applicants also met and presented to the high park neighborhood association on January 5th of 2023 and the high park neighborhood Association does not support the proposal as it stands today due to density and sufficient parking and reduction in open space The high park neighborhood association believes the success of this proposed project It's contingent on the replacement of the existing driveway that is located at the 132 central app parcel to a new site at one 30 central app with a primitive curb cut So the high park neighborhood association would like to receive a determination on that proposed change for one 30 central app from ISD Before decision for this project is made. I'm going to again at this time. We wish to defer judgment to the board. Thank you And the other raised hands collar six one seven two six four you're on mute and can you stage your name and I just for the record and briefly tell us if you're in support of the position Thank you Madam Chair and members the boys Craig Martin cold-chested street high park and I'm speaking on behalf of the high park neighborhood association It's just referred to I would we are we cannot support this simply too much This this parcel is two thirds the size wide for a single thing that zones one and the trip they're tripling the odds per seat What's that tiny parcel and so neighborhood leaves on this referred to this plan is contingent upon the acceptance by ISD Of a new driveway on the a budding crop the one 30 These they're moving right time and one 30 uses this parcel for drive for parking So they have to move their driveway. That's going to require variances as well as curb cut permit And that this we've we've encouraged the young attorney For a long time now to please get ISD input on one third If that'll fly through before we this before we can hear this project Can this can this project? From them So we have we have to please the furthest Though we can get this ISD can submit the decisions on one third. Thank you. Thank you I'm not issued no raised hands Mr. Smok and you address that crop cut issue before we And it madam chair can also ask mr. Smok this property is right in front of right across new mission high school correct Yes, I work yes, so no mission high school just for my colleagues it there is a very large larger kind of structure right across the street in terms scale Story structure and just getting back to the neighborhood there are multiple twos and threes on central avenue The ones choosing activities on such a wrap. They're getting back to the parking issue So with this project we were proposing to move the parking for a number one thirty which by client also owns to the other side of the building at one thirty That wasn't before the board or that wasn't the subject we were going to do that after We did this project with regard to one thirty two putting the Three family on the exit the existing properties they can lock up one thirty two And then we were going to come back and try to get off street parking for one thirty and a later date Or one thirty because there is room on the other side of one thirty to do that Just to confirm right to separate projects But to confirm though You need a new curb cut for one thirty two or Is what they're using your existing curb cut at one thirty two we would need a new curb cut for one thirty If this proves the existing curb cut at one thirty two exists a curb cut at what they do exist Another one again now it's gonna be a separate project and you're not sharing that with one third no no the plan is not to share We were gonna go and try to apply for a new supremacist at one thirty To do off street parking for one thirty at a later date If you can just come from what is one thirty is that one family or is that a two family? Okay any other questions from the board Yeah, we got may have a motion Better for a motion of approval with a provisal to remove that one parking space that Shows front yard parking and to allow for the tandem spaces to exist And BPD designer view with BPD a designer view I Yes, Mr. Shepherd yes, Mr. Valencia Yes, this better braza. Yes Miss. We will yes, Mr. Langham Yes Share also roast yes motion carries Thank you Madam chairman. Mr. Boardhouse. Good day Next we have case B.O.A. 1448332 The address is 720 seven and Atlantic Avenue Is the Independent for their representative I am Mr. Stembridge Hello, Madam chair. This is Mike Ross turning with a lot of our principal bell I'm joined today by co-counsel lessly doing organs also And turning with law for a principal bell Yeah, so we'll start off just sorry as you're speaking can you just Talk through anything new to the proposal because I know this was before the old board Which I was a part of and so I'm trying to understand what Just changed That's correct Denying without prejudice with a six-member board on September 27th, 2022 The ages since then Following a meeting In December association Were resulted in in a few things one most substantially reducing Sunday hours Every week by two hours we will not open now until 11 a.m. Number two There was a little more emphasis on Traffic mitigation until get into in a second we also submitted to the board our traffic study that was completed by Fusano meal Which resulted in no Which which which which basically in summary stated that this will be an acceptable use for this area and and third We gained additional support from the from the immediate community So what I could do is just refresh the recollection of yourself On this bed of arosa and then the other members were not there At the initial hearing you'd like me to I mentioned So if we go back to slide one let me just reorient the board members The the location is at the corner of beach street in Atlantic Avenue. It's directly across the street from south station Slide two shows the You know, especially how we sit at first floor Would be the dispensary this is also by the way a Boston equity Social equity And so the way would work is Customers would enter on the left side On beach street and then they would exit on the right side On Atlantic Avenue and I'll walk you through that specifically upstairs would be the offices for the facility There would also be a vault on the on the second floor So slide three the next slide is just a floor plan and and Man-bass or you can kind of zoom in if you'd like to that proposed floor plan right there up right there There you go So again, you can see the beach street entrance. It's you can have accessible. There's a lift there At the top of the lift at the top of those stairs there's a small desk that would be the ID check-in That's where people would check in and then there's two banks of point-to-sale systems one on the left one on the right To allow for ample I mean this is 3200 square feet And members so it's a it's a very large facility. Well, it will allow for But we'll definitely allow for for throughput of people through and out and then they would leave through the Atlantic Avenue Aside as you can see there That's the basic flow The next slide man-bass or it was like four just shows you the second floor Really, this is just office space Meeting rooms it's it's not open to the public It would be meeting space the only reason why we're here showing it to you today Members memchair is because there's a vault there and once the vaults there that entails cannabis use And that triggers the conditional use I will should mention that there is no variance associated with this application as well Because we are within the half mile There is no there's no buffer permutation. I actually have a plan. I'll show you that really quickly At the next slide. I will show you just a section And then hey, good here. I just point out that have the two vaults line up And there's a dumb waiter in that ball so Product can be securely at the end of the night can be securely brought up to the top wall Without even leaving the ball just fault to vault transfer So that's a nice that's a nice feature security wise the next slide slide six shows you Kind of just more lays out exactly how the three point how will work For people to enter and exit the facility And then next slide what we did on slide seven drill eleven We really want to make sure that you had access to the The traffic study traffic analysis that bus on the o conducted so we included that we also included in a letter yesterday Slide 12 shows you kind of the rich There you go The rich transportation resources that are on this facility So a couple of things on that As previously mentioned I believe there will be no advertising of this facility on highways It's specifically on 93 So there will be no one's gonna see a billboard and then get off of this exit And that's a commitment that's been made to to the the community of the bcb. I'm gonna make that commitment here There's there's a number of resources to transportation resources around the facility At the location. They'll actually display real-time Information about the train transit schedule Across the street There's access to several bus schedules obviously mbt a access Within this quarter mile there's we will also be providing our employees with a subsidized mbt a Charlie card So that encourages them to take the mbt a to get to the location and then slide 13 Shows the last side of this process. This just shows you the half mile so 21 milk street 200 high street both approved applications by this board are both Over half a mile from the facility was at the bottom of your screen if you scroll down from the 727 Atlantic Avenue facility I guess the only thing I'd add Man cherries win Walker security And Jerry smart security will be providing two security but guards One on beach when I lack av the hours of operations. I mentioned Our 9 to 9 Monday through Saturday and now 11 to 9 on Sunday There's a good neighbor agreement that every customer must agree to So in the event they do anything that's out of line with a good neighbor agreement They would not be allowed back in the facility through the at the ID check We'd agreed to work with Boston police department to fund an additional camera. That would be their exclusive control and access They would be able to utilize just for their own their own efforts their own policing efforts And most recently we supplied From the media butters 40 support letters from actual nearby butters that we provided to the board I'll pause the air and I'm sharing it to any questions you might have Thank you any additional questions from the board Hey hearing none. I'm gonna open it to you public testimony Good I said good morning madam chair chair dog and members Morning And may have last year the proponents submitted a Package of support containing 100 something like nine words this morning At a public hearing last September the ZBA Did both to deny about prejudice since that decision the applicant has to be a work with the community Um The applicant has agreed to let us hours of operation from 90 and yeah, so it's a week um From 90 and to 9 p.m. From day to week to 9 Uh, 20 and 9 p.m The proposed campus before uh the proposed campus business has done 20 some of the land It has various concerns from the community regarding small traffic Prime and the business model um the location of the business directly A but state 32 unit residential building the residents have stated that they are already struggling to combat unwanted marijuana smoke in public spaces and adding a Smoke-based business could potentially exacerbate the issue of The amount of a lot to smoke the member members of the leather district residents Uh many leather district residents have raised concerns that traffic congestion is already an issue at the corner of beach and Atlantic out and adding a new vehicle depending business Could potentially further hamper movement and around the leather districts Finally the um the community has also expressed that they will like a quarter contact in the business to address any Concerns that may arise after businesses open at this time. We would like to defer judgments to the board Thank you um too long can you just confirm we we do a number of letters of support but looking at their addresses They mostly do not seem like a butters uh do you are there is their support from a butters? What I have in terms of support I have what was submitted to me by the advocates um I Don't have many letters to support from uh to the letters Thank you any other raised guys Any other left of the fishers offices? I still remember Yep, good morning manager and members of the board. This is Vanessa from council president flens office Um council president flin has submitted a letter Um and would like to go on record on in opposition due to feedback from the batters and neighbors in the leather district Neighbors and constituents have called attention to concerns on traffic congestion the pedestrian safety and exacerbating issues related to double parking Uh moreover they have highlighted concerns about existing quality of life issues that they feel would deteriorate Father with this location such as lardering in the neighborhood and unwanted smoke Building into living spaces for these reasons and others council president flin and neighbors continue to oppose this proposal Thank you. Thank you oh Chris. Oh, go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead. Well man. She had members of the board also to council advisory to clarity Um the council did not write it in opposition Thank you any other elected officials office for we get to public Just okay Chris go ahead Well, madam chair. This is Christopher Lynch and the president the CEO of the company called AppScale I've been a resident of the area not a resident but my My business was existed to last five years in here at 7 11 Atlantic as well as 11 farms worth and I found miss frame jewel and our associates to be Profession And we have my full support I'd also add that If we're concerned about smoke and traffic then maybe we should eliminate the cars in in the um liquor stores because there's no difference in my eye. Thank you. Thank you Right Melissa Sent the request on you means station name and address for the record once I muted Okay Okay, I'll go to Miguel once I muted to you station name and address for the record and briefly tell us the few in support of opposition They might be having issues with their audio Keep going. Okay. I have no additional raised hands It's one guy Miguel. Yeah, I think we're all set. Thank you Okay any other questions from the board Can't see the board and really question for the board. Yes, I can you just confirm the hours of operation? I think I heard from 10 to 9 p.m. Monday through Sunday. Is that accurate? Uh, the no matter um Better as it's 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. You said? Correct. Okay. Thank you I believe I know the question. I'm sure Yes, this uh I miss the rules. Is this applicant also The same applicant that has all the locations in both of them in rural neighborhoods Or can have a Rate locations in both of mr. Ross. Is this down the location proposed? Yeah, one uh, Desi Front dual is Associated with one of the other applications you may recall at And that was recently in front of the board As far as I know the other members are not It is a social equity application so 51% of the owners are Someone who was qualified by the Boston Canipus Board as social equity applicants Mr. Ross I'm so sorry. I missed the location that you said one of them was associated with 329 Columbus Avenue Recently in front of the board in the south end The old Koda restaurant that's there on your corner of Dartmouth Street You're welcome. Thank you That answer your question, Mr. Lussi. Yes, okay. What's yours? Connecting the names. She's a south end resident. I grew up in that community God any other questions from the board Triland did you want to say anything else? No, no, for the comments. Okay Okay, uh with with that may I have a motion? I had a chair up for fourth emotion with four provisels one Be this support you're supporting I mean approving Yes, I'm getting fourth emotion of approval with provisels. There'll be four One is for this applicant only The second mean with ours of operation 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday with 11 to 9 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Sunday Three that there'll be a visible signage on the exterior noting management contact personnel And four bpd design review on the exterior signage Is there a second Second Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah Mr. Shepard yes Mr. Mr. Valencia. Yes Mr. Baraza. Yes Ms. We will yes Mr. Langham Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries Thank you very much People now move into the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. And at this time we'll ask if there are any request for the goal or deferral of the cases and timer All right here none We will move on to the first case being b.o.a. 144 5185 The address of 68 from one street If the applicant for the representative Oh, you have carry in bed Are you here for this proposal? Yes Yes They can start Sure, so we are requesting zoning relief Um, for our three-story dwelling The refusal letter at the violations of changing and distancing roof profile and The second one was required 20 foot setback Um Our change to existing roof profile We had the existing was at 26 feet four inches. We are looking to go up to 28 And the existing 20 foot setback we have 18 feet Setback And then after the deck is built it will be 12 12 feet So Any other Any questions from the board? Any other are we missing something? No, it's uh, it's uh, they're requesting the The two feet up and then uh, yeah From 20 feet setback here, but 18 foot so it's a Animal different separate. Exactly. Any questions from the board Okay Matt Kim, I'm the board Sean Greenhill the mayor's office and the board services Um The applicant completed the community process via the brothers meeting held in my shift team Uh, happy meeting residents did not have any questions after the presentation This office has received zero letters in support and zero in opposition Is at this time that we would defer our judgment to the board Thank you, Mr. Green Have no raised hands at the moment May I have a motion And I'm chair up before a motion of approval with the pda design review paying special attention to the third floor addition and roof line May I have a second? Second Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Stetaprasa Yes As we will Yes Mr. Langham Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Thank you very time Next we have case B.O.A 1407945 Address of 160 West 7 Is the applicant or the representative person So Good morning here exactly Sorry Can you hear me? Yes sir Sorry about that Um Hi Are you on to Exact. An architect for the project here to Uh represent the homeowners who are seeking to Expand the roof deck their existing roof deck on this project at 160 West 7th Street He's proceed As you can see here this is the uh on the roof the roof deck on the right is theirs Uh the roof deck up left is an architect owner um in the same for you in the building You Are you might be coming in and out not sure if you're still speaking I know I can't tell you this Can you hear me now? Yes Okay, sorry about that I'm not sure what what's going on Um Uh yes, I don't know what you what you heard Um Every time I architect for the project um I address of nine Sanctville Street in Charlestown I'm here representing the homeowners who are seeking to expand their Private roof deck on this four unit building in at 160 West 7th Street Is that a head house presently or a That it is a head house presently it is in the existing That's us to that Are there questions from the board? Okay here and none now public testimony Good morning Madam Chair members of the board I'm Anna White with the mayor's office and neighborhood services Oh, and I host in a butters meeting on December 12th 2022 No butters attended the meeting The city side neighborhood association does not support any inclusion of roof decks I'm new developments or added roof decks on the existing existing housing Because the neighborhood has too many issues and noise complaints with existing roof decks Therefore they oppose this proposal Oh and I said to receive three emails in support of this proposal At this time you'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much Thank you Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board this is Vanessa from council president Flynn's office Council president Flynn would like to go on record and opposition through to an extension of the roof deck and quality of life issues That have been highlighted by civic groups like the city side neighborhood association and others for years when it comes to similar proposals Neighbors in South Boston have called attention to late parties and loud noise at all hours as well as trash removal and pest control issues Often the resultances that parties with pizza boxes and beer cans often finding their way to the sidewalks and streets This behavior has negatively impacted our seniors persons of disabilities and young families and was exacerbated during the pandemic Council president Flynn continues to join his neighbors and civic organizations in opposition to similar roof deck proposals or extensions. Thank you Thank you to the board also to council advisory to play definitely sends a couple cousin points off as well as knowing the violations under Article 60 Council to the right I The year the board members if I may this is You know Say something can we finish public testimony first. Oh, sure Attorney David Both of you gonna get testimony here I know additional raise chance. Okay Yeah, yeah, if that weekend could just the address the what what is the current size and what are you looking to expand to and What are the are there other Moof decks in your immediate vicinity? There are the roof decks in the immediate vicinity the current roof deck The current roof deck is about 40 square feet. It's 22 by 11 feet The proposed roof deck I still sit in the middle of the site but would be 12 foot by 41 feet So just over 500 square feet In the intention is they have a growing family and they like to have more open space for their family I'm sorry these convents in this building or is this up? Yes, they're in four condos in the building Other questions from the board Okay, you're not man have a motion I'll put a foot word emotion to approve Hey, man, I'm second second Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Shepard yes Mr. Valencia yes, miss better browser yes Miss we will yes mr. Lionel no The chair also votes no but the motion carries thank you You Next we have case B.O.A 140 9915 With an address on 32 mr. Raviner Is the applicant or their representative? Yes, sir Hey, miss proceed Thank you madam chair members of the board My name is Michael Barone. I'm an attorney with Roberto is Rowan Winer at 255 state street in Boston I'm here on behalf of Karen mayor the owner of 32 Fisher Avenue Mr. Mayor is a long time Boston resident and his own to not you hide the subject premises for four years You know electrician and desires to maintain Boston residency And is seeking to convert the existing three family building to a five family building The property is located on the southern lee side of Fisher Avenue across Walkland playground and backs up to Wensley street There is a significant change in grade at the property in that Fisher Avenue Is substantially higher elevation than that of Wensley street as evidenced by a stone retaining wall at the rear of the property With a set of stone steps leading down to Wensley street As I mentioned the property is currently improved with a residential three-story building with a basement and a walk-up Attic on my buildings in the area 32 Fisher Avenue has an eight frame roof above the third floor which provides walk-up attic space with adequate height to stand Moreover due to the slope with property the rear of the basement level is at grade with the rear yard and has existing Accurate egresses as well as several full-size windows in the rear We are before you today requesting variances to permit the following We seek to change the occupancy from a three-family to a five-family dwelling The renovations to the existing basement would be done to add a fourth unit The basement is currently used for storage as well as laundry and utility that's available to the Occupants on the first second and third floor the storage is currently used by mr. Mayor the landlord The proposed unit would include two bedrooms and one bathroom And as you can see from the plans on the screen the intention is to keep The laundry room as well as the boiler room slash utility room Available to the residents on the first second third floor as well as the basement and the attic space We are also proposing the addition of a sprinkler room in the basement as well as the addition of The extension of the Front egress from the first floor down into the basement and we would be removing One of the who existing egresses and replacing it with the front egress The renovations intended for the attic or intended for legalized existing improvements when mr. Mayor purchase the property back in may of 2019 The fourth form already improved with a bedroom or when an app bedroom with a bat and kitchen We are seeking to make that a one better unit legalizing that by increasing the headspace over the egress on the left side We have to add a dormer approximately 4.5 feet wide so as to increase the headroom for that stairwell to be code compliant We'd also be seeking to add a small deck off the rear of the attic as well As I mentioned in the intended The intended purpose of these renovations is to legalize the existing attic use for mr. Mayor's occupancy and we'd like to add a rental unit in the big Due to the existing conditions of the premises The footprint the height and the gross square footage of the Groction would not change the only exterior Modifications would be the addition of that dormer that that I mentioned in the attic to increase headroom over the egress And we would also be removing one of the existing basement egresses and replacing that with an egress through the front door and stairs down into the basement unit If the intention here is from mr. Mayor to occupy the top floor unit as an onsite landlord We believe that the proposed units will benefit the city by adding much needed housing to the city's housing inventory And we also believe that the properties close location to the MBTA bus service as well as the orange And the green line make this an ideal location for additional health Additional information supportive our application was included in a memorandum included materials And as far as community outreach goes we began our community outreach Back in November of 2022 and finished in March of 2023 We met with the mission hill neighborhood services And we met with back of a hill cdc on December 13th and With the community alliance mission hill three times on February 8th February 15th and again on March 15th and Office of neighborhood services hosted on a butter's meeting More about that from the windows. I think so please proceed with the rest of your presentation Thank you. I apologize madam chair So generally speaking the variants and we are seeking this afternoon this morning Are to permit that three family use the five family use in the district that does not permit multi-family We're also seeking variances related to parking excessive floor area excessive height As well as insufficient lot area per dwelling unit and insufficient usable open space as I mentioned earlier Uh the height the parking and the lot area are are all in compliance with what we have I'm sorry no compliance are all in accordance with what exists at this time And we do believe that based upon our architects calculation you actually Satisfied the usable open space prep area, but we are seeking that request because it was cited on our denial letter And I'm happy to have any questions Yes questions from the board Um, I'm looking at the adjacent properties and for 40-fisher ab is that accurate that there's 40 units I mean 30 units in the apartment building Uh, I'm not sure the total number of units, but I do know that that was a substantial project to prove back in April of 2015 by the board with I believe a number of similar variances, but I do not have that material immediately in front of me right now Okay And just to confirm on you know on google maps this does look like the One of the only four would be the one of the only four floors four story buildings As far as I can go down is that accurate For recommend share from from what we can see from city records and from google maps There are a few aframed roofs farther down Fisher Avenue however those appear to be two stories with the addict serving as the third story So we do appear to be To our knowledge one of the only Uh Re-in-a-half or four-story residential buildings on the block Thank you Mr. Hampton would you like to Provide your recommendation? Uh, thank you madam chair members and board chiefs and bpba We recommended to know if our prejudice on this The appellanus adequate use of the property going from a three to five It would increase the bedroom count from what we saw in the plan switch bells to 15 um in the neighborhood that's uh You know very popular for student housing We just feel that the appellanus adequate use of the property right now we recommend the board to the nine Thank you Other questions from the board May without may open it to public testimony Yes, madam chair members of the board Conor and with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time mayor's office like to defer to the judgment of this board So back our information in the community process our office host and the bothers meeting on February 1st Uh, mostly those attendants were members of the various neighborhood associations in the area The outkin as he mentioned went on to meet with the community alliance of mission hill and the mission hill neighborhood housing services Both group submitted letters and opposition to this proposal M.H. Neighborhood housing services cited concerns both these additional units being rented to undergraduates The large number of variances being sought with that information will defer to the board at this time. Thank you You Any other raised hands Have a few raised hands here any other elected officials If not mark go ahead any stage and name and address and briefly tell us if you're in support opposition Good morning. This is Martin Beindowon 88. Alignan is to the mission hill as pregnant of the community lines of mission hill I would like to check if I did the community voted in opposition of this proposal Our neighborhood is already flooded by student housing with associated noise and other quality of life issue Having further student density at a time that already the number of the zoning limit is therefore a major concern Some residents also pointed out that property owners in the park that often claimed that they would live on site as with 30 to fish I have a new however our typical experience has been that property is quickly become absentee landlord investments Thank you for considering our community opposition Okay, I have no additional raised hands Thank you Any any questions from the board Hey, will that may I have a motion What do you like to make a motion to deny about prejudice? May I have a second Second that madam sheriff by night Uh, we're voting Mr. Stumbergian No Mr. Shepard Yes, and I say yes because I think just two days Motion your motion Yes, right, Mr. Valencia No There's better browser No As we roll no Mr. Langham Yes The chair also votes yes the motion carries Next case thank you members of board Um, this time Uh, we're completely I'll ask we'll ask for any withdrawal with the throws from the 11 30 on credit Yes, Mr. Secretary. This is attorney Ryan Spitz The sister applications first application is 518 through 520 park street and the sister application is 522 park street Last cases of 1130 Yes, okay All right then with that we will continue on the 11th of here I'm sorry, were you seeking a deferral sir? Yes, yes, ma'am. Here you Mr. Stumbergian The furrow for a 518 to 520 So 522 to 522 park street so with that I will read both of them into the record Uh first being case B.O.A 14 0 5701 With the address of 518 to 520 park street And along with that to be case B.O.A 14 4 5 525 With the address of 522 park street Okay Okay, Mr. Spitz it's not showing up, but if you want to proceed yes Attorney Ryan Spitz with that was a maran's he business address of 168 H street first floor South Boston I'm here asking for a short deferral on this matter So this is actually the second deferral the first one. There was an issue with the sister application to be And published at the same time and being advertised Today we're here. We do have them advertised and published at the same time However, there are issues with the refusal letter. We'd like to Take out with this special services department to have those amended So again, we'd like to have the proper violations of add to those refusals So I'm looking for a short deferral for this please. Thank you. How do you? What's the next available? Yes, ma'am. Jera July 11. Who's being the next available? Great Okay, we've got an ad motion Make a motion to defer to July 11 ma'am a second Mr. Stambridge Yes, Mr. Shepard Yes Mr. Valencia Yes, Mr. Berraza Yes, Ms. Wiewel Yes, Mr. Langham Yes, chair also votes yes motion carries Great. Thank you Next Returning to the 11 a.m. Uh, hearing We have case B.O.A. 1309386 The address being 75 May with street It is the applicant or a representative president Yes, sir Okay, please proceed Lied one good morning My name is Clayton Weston I am the owner of the A vacant land in the Roxbury area of 75 77 Maywood I will run the adjacent street southern street for over 30 plus years And my entire family lives on that street With owner that land I seek approval to You know provide a Housing to a vacant land in the area that has has been A bit of an issue And so I'm now going to take this time to turn it over to my Architect and Mr. Fred Mananiac to describe the proposed plans that we are seeking approval for Thank you very much Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the Board I think what my client is proposing is to build Uh six units on a on a on a current vacant land have been Since sitting idle and collecting trash What my client proposing is to build six units With six needed parking spaces with one cup I would not add to the parking issue in the neighborhood The units will be five of them will be two bedrooms, two baths A seven-year-old street to spare fee that will be supposed Studio emigrant for if you if you're able to scroll out we can look at the point and the other visions Can you guys hear me? Yes sir So Our proposal is to allow the Uh The building to be designed in a such a way that at the back of the building It will be a unstill along the parking to be underneath uh is still uh Allow the uh the the the building to to to still contain the six unit along with the Six package We've gone through the committee process we had an original of what is meaning that as well. We see Then he was suggested to us by the new years round that we also have a Community a larger community meeting with project right Which is the kind of the neighborhood Yeah, organization and neighborhood we also had that meeting Where and that also was the world we see and we see a lot of support from project right uh, like my client said He and his entire family lives in the neighborhood as uh the client is very well supported by Everybody the oboe in the and the surrounding neighbors So So at this point we have a couple we leave that we are seeking to release is for our floor area ratio Uh excessive height Funnest time yard that do not meet Uh, usually homes I've been said that I think I can turn over for any questions that you are the board may have Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Yes um Why did you not submit plans for the for the project or elevations like that? There are, there's no, there's just some magic I only see what's in front of us right now just these two drawings of plot plan and a building footprint plan Hmm The French range which we submitted a full set of lines Jessica do you have that on record? Well, I don't have control of the plans but I can check in with them. Stephanie. Yes, I Is it Don't have plans Yes, there's a way that maybe we can um There's Yeah, man of jazzy yes, if you guys write you can put a motion to the further so That they have to submit these plans to the later Um, now we'll revisit now Right as it is the hearing work probably not gonna receive a few of that. So yeah So if I can just chime in uh, you know, we submitted to iZ4 rejection That's we have to have plans and elevations. That's how they were able to decide the uh, the deficiencies Uh, the board will allow me. I can go ahead and issue in the allow me to scare my screen. I can prevent that we we don't share screens I think I think what we're proposing is that the for all since we don't have the plans Uh, if i've the air can what what is your next available date for that? Yeah, I don't know Is it just a difference with maybe later today and and and and and see if It's somehow they could find the plan to put the plan was submitted. Oh, this is unless you had what what happened I'm very is that possible. I feel comfortable reviewing them later Yeah, I think they they're here. They have to be here It you know, if you guys are able to play you know The timing rise. I don't know what's fine. They would be able to do it or you can have plans that but I think my recommendation features Really okay, so that's fine Okay, would that mean I have a motion? I like to make a motion for deferral on their earliest possible date without Thank you, ma'am the second Say some second Thank you, Mr. Stembridge Yes Mr. Shepard Yes Mr. Valencia Yes Mr. Pataprasa Yes This we will yes Mr. Langham Yes Sure also votes yes motion carries Next we have case B081369555 Adress being 207 Don't just wrap it The applicant would represent the president That's good enough there That's good enough there All right, can you hear me? Yes, great So hi, this is Derek Blue from Blue Market texture You know Representing the owner Shlormi Gava Here I'm not sure if you got added as a presenter or not I'd like to present the project Recently 7.5 test round notes System three family residents within unfinished Full height basement that's a walk out as you can see in the bottom right picture That's the rear of the building walk out condition. It's actually a broad grade But the back of the building and below grade at the street end We're proposing to finish the basement adding one unit Which would create a three unit building instead of a three unit building No change to the exterior footprint or height or any features other than cutting in The code required windows for egress and daylight Particularly in the bedrooms as you can see on that right side elevation Series of taller windows were existing shorter windows today It would be a two-bit room unit and it would Partition off a portion of the basement to become in utilities and come and access to those utilities So that they would not be trapped inside of this new unit Here's the room plan existing on the left Propose on the right as you can see For the open plan living space towards the backyard and on the street end The bedrooms with the door windows on the left On the right of the plan you see the common mechanical space and the common entry vestibule Um, we can go to the next line. I believe we can always come back The upper levels don't change we just have the new plans for records to see these units in the building budget So that's that's kind of it just kind of We'll walk you through it. It's fairly straightforward project the work in in And we had good feedback at the community meetings Thank you any questions from the board Hey, Erin just got in the can we take public testimony Morning Madam chairman members of the board. My name is Ross Cawker on mayor's office of neighborhood services The act has completed their community process at this time our office held a butters meeting in January this year And no but as attended though and the I believe the developers and that with the local civic group of our project No official sense has been taken but we'd like to defer to the judgment as board this time. Thank you Thank you. I'm no race against Okay with that may I have a motion Mafia I would like to make a motion to approve with the B8 thank you You have a second Yes Mr. Shepard Mr. Valencia. Yes Miss better brawza yes Miss we will yes mr. Langham yes there also votes yes motion carries good luck. Thank you Next we have Uh case B08 142 32 69 at the address of 1424 blue 11 Will the applicant or the representative president? Yes, I am members of the board Good morning, madam chair members of the board of funds or syrup with someone an associate's on the architect and What we're proposing is to provide an additional unit. It's an existing three family residents And we're proposing to provide an additional two better one bath unit in the basement and also to extend the One up two out of bathroom and extend the pantry throughout the floors one two and three through the existing building So they're basically the existing basement Uh, we're proposing to add the required windows for egress in the bedrooms And also split the space with the utilities that are there now Um, and then on the upper floors is based. It's a basic extension of the existing porch That is open but roofed so we're gonna think be in closing those areas To run the pantry and the in the in the additional bathroom throughout And that's uh, that's basically the proposed the What we're proposing at this time Great. Thank you, sir any questions from the board Yes, what's the proposed height on the base now? The proposed height is eight feet. Okay. Great. Thank you. No further questions Any other questions from the board? May I take public testimony? Good morning, madam chair or actually uh, good afternoon, madam chair members of the board Eric James from the mayor's office of neighborhood services The advocate for 1424 bluehill ad have had no butters getting on January 24th of this year They met they met with the great madam Pell neighborhood council the GM and C board made their recommendation Um, and the recommendation is for review by the BPD 8 they state that there are serious concerns about the decrease Useful open space on a very small lot on a main RV road the expansion of each unit into what would be open spaces reduces the available open space Production in parking and non-performing the committee also looked at the existing Occupancy and found out there were in our existing businesses on the property as evidenced by signage and here to On the front porch above four mailboxes on the current signage advertisers five businesses on the property The advocate proposals to engage their Or plans and thereby and largely and looking the back for doing crushing the rear yard which reduces the amount of useful open space and available parking on the Usable open space for requirements per unit is insufficient and the both sides of the basic unit is excessive as it would reduce the available open force face Further and results in the property becoming more not performing and that is of the BMC as of this time we have zero letters of support zero Of the position and we are Choosing to the floor jump into the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you Dive for you look at the sun here See your hand is raised. I yes, can you hear me now? Any state your name and address and tell us briefly if you're in support. Yes Thank you. My name is Joe for thank you. My name is Joe for Brody San I'm the owner of Look at it at 1550 Real Avenue in Mara Piden and a 1424 I'm it's considered one of the neighborhood just close to my Building apartment Down there and I and I want to testify in favor of the Who's changed in a three take a units and I'm the one as you know Metaphen is home of the The largest nation community. We have a lot of people coming up in Mara Pena We have a shortage also of Housing in Mara Pena. Yes, just I just give up for meeting with the governor's office regarding the situation in the patient in terms of having housing Especially for my happen with this as a pastor a community leader I strongly choose to support This proposal that would definitely expand the housing Starks in Mara Pena and I believe that's the property is well well Located very convenient Just to avoid many cars because we have a need many bosses that travel Into Real Avenue and and I'm Strolling in support of the workers. Thank you Additional reasons Yeah, I'm sure I will look forward to a project with the same review Second, second Mr. Sandbridge Yes Mr. Shepherd Yes Mr. Relencia. Yes, it's better braza. Yes As we will yes, Mr. Lamb Hmm, is Mr. Langan with us? Yes Thank you. Uh, chair also loads. Yes, motion carries good luck. Thank you Madam chair members of the board. Have a good day Next we have case B.O.A. 143 2592 With the address of 75 John on street This is also an article 80 project The applicant would represent the press Yes, sir Okay, good morning. Yeah, good morning, Mr. Henry Good morning, Madam chair of the secretary members of the board Attorney Joe Hanley Representing the proponent of a talent McDermott Quote Miller LLP 28th State Street in Boston Just introduce you to the development team is the first slide here The proponents a joint venture between Saras and properties and main sale management Jim Kelley her Ted Sarasino and Travis Powell Obviously introduced due to my cells We're also working with PCA architects and itty john who is with us as a panelist and we'll take you through the presentation after I take you through the first five slides This is an article 80 project we work very closely On transportation mitigation and planning efforts with Howard's nine Hudson and also very proud of the Restoration of landscaping and reforestation and partnership with Coffley-Rove Landscape architects next slide please So The site site is really an anomaly surrounded by multi-family conditions large 1.3 acres of underutilized land just west A boat square towards the Newton And Boston city line you'll see it in black hash It is also burdened in a very unique way by A severe change in grade which runs from Washington Street down to Trim on street about 44 feet In in change of grade on one side to 33 on the other It is part of An institutional holding and has been for for several decades owned by the archdiocese of Boston Which also part of their St former St. John's Church in the back which has been sold to To an independent A party and The referee which was associated with it above And it's parking facility. I mentioned that just to give you context of the area While we are at a one-out five thousand zone This 1.3 acres is bordered on both sides by MFR conditions In the site itself as she'll look at the lower left-hand side Is also burdened by an overwhelming abundance of evasives in invasive Tree growth lack of evergreens And what we are seeking to do is improve the state of the environment as part of this proposal next slide, please Just to take you for a walk around the neighborhood I talked a little bit about the unique aspects of the site support of the variances Key code up here and your upper left This is 99 trim on spree which is immediately adjacent to the project site the red building. It is six stories 62 units Of condominium home ownership has an FAR about 1.85 in the middle Is the Immediately adjacent property to our right on the east side includes two buildings That are approximately four stories About an average FAR 1.2 1.25 and there are six units in each so that's multi-family condition directly across the street To the south you see in three again four-story multi-family and this slide photo number four on the left side is important You're seeing a two-story structure that's actually the top of the six-story building at 99 trim on spree So that illustrates that dramatic Changing great our property site is to the left and you're looking from the parking lot and back of the St. John's rectory And church across the street again. You see the multi-family conditions and four stories and next slide, please So what we're really proud of for this development is Looking at improving the state of the environment. It shall see in the upper right This is sort of a You know site with its steep braid Is underutilized to say the least and doesn't contribute to the habitat and actually detracts from it We brought in coply wolf and we had to do a detailed study that revealed that 84 or 85 percent of the tree growth is invasive And what does that mean? It's on the Massachusetts prohibited plant list and has impacts The habitat but also on its contributing aspects. So what we did is We looked at how can we plant morteries and how can we bring in a dovebroke ever greens and keep what is contributing There are some alums and oaks which you'll see that we're also Retaining as well and and the upper left again that is the site to the left is 99 trim on street But I mentioned and again our 1.3 acres with that steep change in grade next slide, please So just give you a summary that I'll hand it off to ditty to take you through the development program We are very excited To bring a contributing and transformative residential development to this site And what does that mean? Modest in size appropriate in scale and contributing both to the dynamics of Brighton's housing market But also to the surrounding Infrastructure so we're proposing a 4 to 6 story building that is Situated within the very steep grade to help mitigate significantly mitigate its its height 70 total units All home ownership Brighton Suppers from a disproportionate amounts of rental to home ownership. I'm a 75% rental So this is something that it's very much needed When I talk about the scale our FAR is 1.21 Which is less than those surrounding structures or consistent with the one to the right And we look at What we can do to improve the state of the neighborhood around us And that starts with a robust landscaping which we talked about the reforestation But also providing passive spaces and improving pedestrian connectivity on this section of trimustry that is now lacking Creating and investing a new covered bus shelter and a new mid-boss Bosswalk for pedestrian safety And obviously we have on site parking which is 1 to 1 before also investing in Blueblights blueblights to create that better Connectivity the other thing. I'll say just in leaving this to nitty is what you'll see here is also 60% Of this site is over in space And we think that's something that is We talked about precedent and how it's not governing we think that's a good precedent And I hope you'll see that in the slides to follow nitty Thank you, Joe Madam chair members of the board my name is nitty john. I'm an architect at PCA And we have been working on this project diligently for the last until we're five years now Looking at various options and setting this site as Joe mentioned because it's a 40 foot A grade change. There were some considerations that we needed to do with the site the second page since Joe has talked about the first one the ground floor Around the public improvements. This is a typical floor plan of this five now shows the second floor But it also highlights the how many one beds one bed dens two beds and three beds are in this project This project In initially we used to talk about studios. They'll be intentionally state away from studios because of the focus For first-time home buyers and folks who are downsizing in neighborhood. It was a very important part Another part of the top three yellow boxes were more to highlight the highlights of the project in terms of unit matrix that we studied You'll see the landscaping portion on the left side of the building. That's the west forget And it is we did spend a lot of time looking at resident amenities for Various people in the building assuming it will be multi-generational Looking at smaller spaces larger spaces. How they engage with the interiors What that means for the exterior and programming those spaces and we would love to continue that as we move along What our listed here are the ground floor amenities second floor patio, which is on grade and the fifth floor amenities as we mentioned Next slide, please This is a good illustration of the The story behind this project. I will say as an architect the the building kind of takes a step back on the site The beauty of this project is that it will at the end of a project have 220 trees on site Out of which 70 we that we've curated will be the good trees and then we are adding 150 new diverse native trees On the site and it was a big part of the story of the site and if you can't see What we've imposed on the site plan to see there's this slight dash Black line that you'll kind of see that is stepped away On the outside of the building that line is very intentional because we are holding a lot of these distinct trees along the northeast edge We actually met with the neighbors last September and a walk on the site To actually study these and kind of give the neighbors a better understanding The site has zero evergreen trees now and that's the picture you saw on the winter photo It was from mid-fibiary and the neighbors had no Grace on shielding or green in the winter so we could consider that and study that with coupling wolf As you'll mentioned it's about 60% of it is open space and it is very intentional as car this site and how to integrate and add more And next slide please This is a continuation of what it means for The species of trees what we're talking because we talked about biodiversity and how to increase the native diversity Copy wolf did a study at different points whether it's on the sketch on the left is a is on the street where you we do have we talked about beach trees Along the street along tree monstery and how you do that stratification of plantings from shrubs and plants or larger trees mix like this The next few trees lies are basically renderings of what this building looks like on tree monstery So this one is standing on closer to the 99 tree monstery and looking at the project from the west looking towards east There's an existing bus stop On site and this project is going to have a mid-block crosswalk which does not show up on this view But it is kind of behind where that first car is For pedestrian safety and traffic calming and we will be adding a bus shelter Next slide please This is the inner courtyard on the second floor that I was talking about on the plan It's a private courtyard, but definitely the nice thing is because of the slope the hill slope It actually works in our advantage to have real terraformer and provide true green space Spaces for patios spaces for people to gather grill as well as Pure green lawn space for a variety of activities next slide please And This is the last view that shows what 75 tree mountain would be at the entry for example And you'll see there's a lot of white and green color. It is truly inspired by the natural palette and landscape Next slide please This is a slide that shows the zoning where we are today with one This is a one f 5000 zoning area and what that means for this project and the asterisk behind the Exceeded floor area every show 0.5 and a building height that we've seen that is for the original one is 35 feet two and a half stories Giving the precedent and all of our extensive work with the bpda Team and bta btd to develop this product over time. These are the ones we are asking for From this group and I think the last slide Yeah, nitty just um if I may I'm out of chair on the on the zoning too um So one of the things you'll see there is that this project is complying if not exceeding all of the setback requirements including the front Side and rear yard and again Over almost 525 square feet of open space for unit far and excess um and and as nitty said you know Considering the history we need relief in Three main areas again the fa are at 1.21 which is modest and consistent with and less than our surrounding structures the height which again we would suggest is mitigated by that steep change in grade and The design the innovation and the design and the building setbacks But also the surrounding context and then finally is the use um we are in a 1.5 thousand This particular site has absolutely no records with the city of ever being used As a single family or residential use my senses it was zoned in the 1f 5 Again because it is owned as part of the archdiocese of Boston was once a greenhouse there And again at 1.3 acres of the base of growth in the middle of the housing crisis We think what we've done is to strike a balance of Open space and modest density with a contributing type of housing So on the affordability side which I just want to know because I don't think we covered it 70 units all condos as nitty indicated They are no studios. They are ones twos and three bedrooms We're providing 17% on site affordable or in excess of the city's requirements Three of those are three bedroom unit affordables for home ownership Uh, which we also think is very important especially in a name because that has such a high disparity of rental to home ownership and Obviously a need for affordability And finally I just like to Obviously, thank you for allowing us to go through this. We were approved as nitty indicated by the bpba board on March 16 There was a lot of guidance that was provided by the iag members I know there's some here to speak and the alok of elected delegation I want to thank them and the neighbors for helping to make this project better Thank you madam chair Thank you mr. Hanley Is there anyone from bpda the project manager who could also speak to this cross to the community process in particular? Yes, hi, hello my name is Nick Carter. I see your project manager with the bpda This project did as the government mentioned and received bpda board approval and enjoyed a fairly long and robust Community process that resulted in a number of changes to the project um and as they stated is maintaining the nature of the site as Again was part of one of the many issues that came up throughout the long-review process So again, I can say that this project enjoys a fair bit of news for and also went through a robust process and was previously approved. Thank you Uh mr. Carter So we did receive a fair number of letters of opposition from what seemed to be about us I mean if you could elaborate a little bit, I guess Unprocessed or whether or not Or someone else you know Madam chair, I think there's The letters that we received yeah in which states almost the opposite in terms of a robust Community process but what's noted is that the bpda is holding let's say to um public hearing process But what the bpda reports to us is that the developers have done an extensive Outreach process so that so we're getting kind of What a I guess we need a little bit more definition in terms of What is a robust developer commute process versus the bpda's role in mitigating kind of concerns of the neighbors if you can clarify that that will be helpful Certainly this project originally was a much larger project When it first came to the bpda for service pre-file process a number of years ago um the developer then went and took that A regional design out to the community and that was civic groups and other local groups in the area and What resulted is the much scaled down uh more again The word escaping me but sort of a more permanent resident focused project um so the the project had a process outside of the bpda process sort of before they came to us with the design bc today um and then throughout that process working with bpda design staff Um over the course of a number of iag meetings and public meetings and again I know that this developer has gone and done their own work sort of outside of our process meeting with folks resulted in the project that you see in part to that Yeah, it's federal browser. I wonder if I could just add quickly too on from our standpoint So the time frame of this project both in the outreach predated the pandemic and and then happened subsequent to it so We did a lot of in-person outreach With the immediate neighborhood and city indicated we've been hosted a nice site lock where we mark trees together and brought our L.A. There We also presented in person because the neighborhood group the BAA actually held their meetings in person even during some parts of the pandemic which was helpful So there was a lot of opportunity for in-person and detailed engagement for please that the neighborhood group voted to support us Sure you'll open them the other thing that I think is important. I showed you that map of the immediate area We had iag participation By our direct adjacent a potter the head of the HOA at 99 who was supportive And we also received a letter of you received the letter of support prior only other Directive mother who owns the parcels of tip top and Washington street And so we you know tried towards very Uh hard and closely with that with everyone on this I'm not sure we made everyone happy but certainly the scale of this is And the investment in the open space And the contric contributions for pedestrian safety and traffic are all the better the factors of the dividends of that robust Process and the support receipt and mr. Handley can you use uh mr. Carter mentioned your original projects Was much larger can you just what what number unit count? Yeah, it was uh condos yes, ma'am 120 units of rental housing and that it was uh lowered in between and then we were able to come to um an arrangement with the archdiocese this is a long-term lease uh 100 year 99 year lease not that uncommon that you would do Uh condos under land lease we see that in the city of Boston But it did take some convincing uh With you know with the church which retains ownership of of the parcel Thank you any other questions from the board I also have another question in terms of how is the percentage of the owner of depy units Determine you listed it at 65 percent Yeah, thank you for that question so that also was To ride through the ex the robust community process with the ijd elected officials the neighbors So how are you doing that is it's in our board memo This is an article a big large project those are enforceable obligations right um it's in our cooperation agreement also an enforceable document and it'll be in our condominium declaration of trust what you call the heat restrictions Uh, we have done this uh when i say we I have done this as an attorney is part of development teams in bright and it's a concern that we share this not be You know an investor typebuilding We think that the location and how we program this as a superior product or empty nesters and mature owners Which there's a huge demand for That it'll achieve that but we were happy to put To verify that in a legal way That's how you try thank you Thank you Jerry yes yes Question would be what's the time for you for construction of the project and have selected a general contract to put a project Yeah, thanks thanks for that question sir shepard um ideally we would I would like to start the fall And they have not selected contractor yet Thank you Thank you any other questions from the board Okay, with that uh, let's open it up to public testimony just go Sure, yeah Yes, uh, good afternoon Madam chair members of the board Frank Mendoza here also rightly is on to the mayor's office member of services You're too test-wise to the communication process that this applicant underwent our office received always copied on Seven letters of opposition and also received one letter that included 21 signatures opposing the project I also believe that the zoning chair of the Brighton also in improvement association and abelagomes is on to test five Two bear stance on this project, but at this time our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board Some of those signatures may have been overlapping as well. Thank you Yes, I'm sorry Before we see can you just confirm like let's focus on Those in support first if you're if you're not in support right now lower your hands and and re raise them when we're when we're addressing opposition Okay Good morning, Madam chair, and thank you for allowing me to speak um I Rising to speak in support of this project and it was a project that was first proposed a A few years before I came into office and the project team has worked diligently with the AIG and the community over several years As was previously mentioned that this the project has changed dramatically in that time It and I think that the project team has landed on a quality A greatly improved project that offers much needed Omonorship opportunities in our just in our in our neighborhood in ob square And the one very impressive aspect is conservation and improvement of the green space Uh with the introduction of many native union of trees and conserving 60% of the open space Which is sort of almost unprecedented in in Boston at this time The improvements in public pedestrian safety also incredibly important and the one-to-one parking Uh the bike station and the affordability of the the units 70 units with 70% on affordability is very very much needed as we're trying to And stabilize our population and encourage more long-term residents And we're very happy to see the three additional three Three-bedroom units in the affordable portion of this project which will hopefully offer an opportunity for families to A subtle and reside in in our neighborhood in ob square So thank you very much for your time this morning and I'll stand and support this project Thank you Councilor Murphy's office Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board, Tommy and Councillor Erick Berffey's office Of this time Councillor Murphy would like to go and support this project Due to a green community process this proposal has a lot of support for both directed butters And the community as a whole and the supply and comfort of the review was proud to support and rail letter support for this project Thank you Any of the elected officials office on before we get to public testimony No, okay, I just a quick I know there's a few people that want to speak if you could briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition And don't repeat information. So we'll go to minor Uh, thank you, Madame Ambassador of the Madame Chair members of the board, I'm not sure if you're present in the Carpenters Union And we have a hundred of other unique Carpenters and we will see you in the next one I want to go to support Thank you Okay, we're going to call if you can briefly I'll ask if you're in support of opposition. Give your name and address With Eric and Amy? Yes, go ahead I'm my name is Nikolae Keane I live at 35 Beachbub Street I have been Right since I was 26 I bought a condo shortly after I graduated college and hit that condo for eight years I sold eight years ago and I've rented for eight years close to a book square. I live in I work in new corner. I am from a Closel of this project What they have put together is a fantastic project It is not the right project for this site. We are I'm part of the expert association and And you have seen What are you doing in the kitchen? Madame Chairman, you are spot on to say there seems to be a fair amount of opposition letters submitted We've worked really hard to get the word out and I personally have Flyered the neighborhood spoke to residents spoke to people who don't know about this project As I said, I work in new corner and I am very very concerned about the president precedent of density That is happening in this neighborhood and as I said, I am a renter. I do not know longer home Okay, I'm John Yes Yes, my name is John Qsac on the rest of the 186 Washington Street This has gone through a very long process. It's representative dramatic improvement from the initial Proposal 17 is a home ownership with 65% on a rock and see is something that I think bright needs to see more of The public safety aspect of the end of crosswalk is very much needed And I'm firm support of this project Megan hi, I'm Megan thrasher at 19 tip top I'm in firm opposition to the projects It's just too large for the single family zone and it needs further review. They're gonna have to it's such a large project that They're gonna have to dig down two stories of the undeveloped wooded hillside And then they're gonna need construction vehicles and and how do they plant the larger trees without harming the trees to remain Thank you. Thank you. I don't say do you want me to keep going? About nine more raised hands. I will split the difference and let's say five Mattia, I'm going to the board real quick. I'll post obviously the council last month. I'm going to go right to sport. Thank you. Harvey Yes, my name is Abby ye I 129th Great World here in Brighton, over square Right now you have heard a lot of people talk about Right now that area is isela We need additional housing and a fact that The unit the proposal has three bedrooms and two bedrooms Which will hopefully Wild families that want to live and stay in the orthodox right community with this project. So I'm in Home support of this project. Thank you. Thank you Hi, hello my name is Hank. I'm a resident of the Nakhina Extreme, Australia. So building adjacent to The lock being discussed standing firm opposition of the proposal. I think it's a 70 unit addition to this already pretty crowded neighborhood It's a dramatic increase In you know in the already crowded neighborhood is going to Significant impact the already, you know pretty bad traffic and noise in the neighborhood And I also want to find out that I'm not sure what robust neighborhood engagement process that is being discussed I talked to a number of neighbors in the building and our past several well with project until probably February or March of this year. So we weren't able to give an opportunity to participate in any kind of discussion Thank you Okay, I'm gonna go. I'm Sandra Hi, my name is Sandra Sylvester. I live at 42 Magic Street. I want to stress my opposition to this project I feel that the actual project is seven units is too dense I'm hearing a lot about affordable housing and a lot about how this three bedroom units condos that they're gonna sell um for families will three bedroom to Units three of them is not gonna bring families back into the neighborhood Thank you Right, I think I think we're getting a good idea of people's supporter opposition on Are there any other questions from the board? I think you do have someone from the neighborhood group just I'm sorry. I was just gonna suggest you have someone from the neighborhood group on as well I don't know who's a madam chair members of the board. That's uh that's in a bill of homes from the bright and all center group And associate asian tree as her hand race to testify as well Well, that's that's make that the last one In about a good Madam chair members of the board. I don't know. I'm from the bright and all center group Association nasan i.e. you member on this project the bright nasan improvement association voted to support this project They have presented to the BIA on several occasions um We did support it because they did change it to home ownership Which is much needed in our community where the good affordable rate and the open space that they're providing and cleaning up the site So that it'll be a great a good looking site I do understand that the neighbors in the earth's for area I was just to development and we do hear their concerns, but we do think this is much needed development with a home ownership And the iag for the most part of the party is in support of this project as well. Thank you. Thank you Great any other questions from the board Okay Abortion Madam chair. I would like to put forward a motion of fear after hearing the community the pros and cons I still believe that the creation of housing opportunities for the community and home ownership Is important and I was pleased to see that there are 12 i.d.p. units Especially including two entry bedrooms. So with that, I would like to make a motion to approve the project Yeah, the second better mr. Stambridge Yes mr. Shepard Yes mr. Valencia Yes Miss Betta Baraza Yes Miss Mewo Yes Mr. Langham Yes The chair also votes yes motion carries with that. I'm going to ask for 15 minute break Thank you very much better chair. Thank you You