 you you you you you you You You open to the public. Members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which will mean you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Or members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panellists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. All right. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Mr. Canato. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, Mr. Aiken. Good morning, Madam Chair President. Good morning, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will start off with the extensions of 930s. First, two together are the case of B-O-A, 116, 4405, with the address of 353, the 355 B panel street. Along with that, we have case of B-O-A, 116, 4409, the address of also 353, the 355 B panel street. The extensions, this is the first request for the extensions. So if the applicant's annual representative would explain to us why they're asking for the next one, would this one? Thank you, and good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board of Attorney Ryan Goss down behalf of the applicant. I'm a Durhamical Dean Miller, 28 State Street, sweet 802. With me as well is Anthony Pizani, who is a project architect. We're seeking an extension for both this zoning code and building code relief that was approved in 2021 for the extension of the restaurant use to the second floor of Jocque Mose in the North End. Unfortunately, after the relief was approved in 2021 during the pandemic, the restaurant experienced some delays in hiring and identifying contractor to complete both filings and some sprinkler work on the second floor of the restaurant. However, as we're before you today, we're informed that everything has been filed with ISD, we're simply waiting on final approval of the plans and permanent issuance, but we're coming up against the expiration of the relief in the first week of November. So we're simply seeking an extension to ensure that we have sufficient time to get everything finalized. Any questions from the Board? Sharon Dunn may have a motion. Motion to approve the extension until November 5th, 2024. Sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Sharon also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 1, 2, 1, 6, 0, 5, 7, with the adrips of 9, Joseph St. Joseph Street. The Board of Regions grant this week on November 2nd of 2021, and this relief remains valid until November 2nd, 2023. This is the adrips gets first request for a one-year extension until November 2nd, 2024. With the adrips, we can't handle it. They're represented and explaining the request and the report. Hi, my name is Mavila from U Architecture. Good morning, Board of Madam Chair. The applicant has had some trouble finding financing due to inflation of cost and labor. So we're just asking for that extra year so he can get his finances in order to do this project. Okay, and is that in the works or? Yes, he's currently searching for alternative banks to help him finance the project. Any questions from the Board? When do you hope to start construction? We're hoping in the spring or summer of next year if everything goes to plan. Great. May I have a motion? I'm a commission to prove to one-year extension to, I guess, November 2nd, 2024. May I have a second? That can. The cons. You, Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Mimbo? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Penauto? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Okay. And the final extension request is case of the OA 799 147, the dead arrest of Ernie Braun Street. The Board originally granted this relief on November 6th of 2018. We're told in a previous extension, this relief remains valid until November 6th on this year. This is the applicant's fourth request for one-year extension. So November 6th, 2020 for the applicant and the one of the representative explainable board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney Nix Azul, McDermott, Coltian Miller. Here on behalf of the property owner, developer 30thorn LLC with me from 30thorn as Christopher Manada's floor now. This is a four-unit residential development, Madam Chair, it's an article 80 small project review project in Hyde Park. As Mr. Secretary read into the record, this would be the fourth overall extension for the project. However, we were in front of the board in 2022 for a notice of project change and some project revisions. So this would be the second extension since the notice of project change. The reasoning for that was to make some changes to the project in order to make it more buildable. They're in the process just like the previous applicant mentioned of securing funding commitments, construction, financing and the like, but there's some accompanying economic impacts, market inflation and all of that that have caused some issues with construction costs as we all know and also with funding and kind of undo certainty in the lending aspect and field for the approved project. So they are still looking to build the project, but they're not able to do so right now. So we're looking for an additional extension to give them more time to secure that funding with the hope that they can proceed the construction next year with the market and hopefully calming down a little bit and making this a more buildable project. So happy to answer any questions, but that's the request, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, can you talk a little bit about where you would stand in terms of filing for building markets? Yes, the hope is again to file within the next year of this extension request. I know that you know from late 2019 to now the cost of building a project has jumped up like $4 million plus. So they're trying to make it work still and my understanding is that they're still actively looking to obtain construction financing and as soon as that happens they're ready to build. It's a vacant lot and it's ready to go. So the hope would be that within this next year extension that they would be able to pull the building permit. Thank you. But as did I review advanced through other elements of permitting board that stuff is all and hold until there's on your side? Yeah, I mean it's where it's in slow talks, you know, to get designer view completed we've got the affordable agreement and the mitigation agreement in place for the BIA design review is not completed yet as a result of these issues but you know the team is committed to finishing that up to get to the building permit. Thank you. May I have a motion? I just would say we hope we don't see another extension but I will make a request to extend until November 6, 2024. May I have a second? That is. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you Madam Chair. Next we move on to the board by the officers here. It's going to be for 9.30. First we have case BOA 759 563 with the address of 80 Martin Street into the applicant and with their representative present to explain to the board. Yes. Good morning Chair. Yes. We are. I have a question for you. I want to ask you a question. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you Madam Chair. Good morning to you members of the board. Richard Lins, 245 Summars Street East Foss and the application of couple of four partners with me is Beth Whitaker from Merge Architects, who is the project architect. I think I provided the board with a slide to just for reference. We don't really have to get too far into it. I can walk through more of a technical presentation here. Just to inform the board by way of brief history, the board had granted extensive zoning relief for the project at 80 Marginal Street back in 2017. As part of that approval for a 9 unit multi-family residential building, there was included parking garage located below gray. As part of the post-approval permitting including conservation commission approval, the conservation commission determined that the parking program was non-adequate and certainly not acceptable under the order conditions they were willing to issue. As a result, we were required to do a B design of the entire project. Between Merge Architects and the developer, we worked diligently with the Boston Planning and Development Agency to compilate a redesign of this building from what was originally approved. In order to address now the comments and concerns of the conservation commission but also the redesign, within the practical reality as the redesign that we could certainly work with. As a result, this project was reduced down in chair from nine units to seven units. It despite the extensive zoning relief that was granted, all the changes that we've proposed do not result in any additional zoning relief that would be necessary. We've added that with the plans examiner ISD, had an extensive dialogue with ISD as well. There was a term in that no further zoning relief would be necessary for the changes that we made. In fact, we've actually reduced the violations for which we were granted relief for and I'll summarize those briefly for the board because I think it's important for the record in approving this on the board final hour. First of all, because this is in a 3F-2000 zoning district, we were cited for insufficient lot area for addition dwelling units. Since the number of dwelling units is permitted on the site would have been three. For each unit over three, we would be required to have at least a thousand more square feet. Because we were reducing this from nine units to seven units, the impact of that relief was actually lessened. We're not required to have the full 9,000 square feet in a lot. We're only required to have 2,000 less space upon the seven units. In addition, we were approved for a 4F-1000 ratio, a gross square area of about 12,000 square feet. The building based upon our redesign is within that approved gross gross square and therefore no further relief under the 4F-1000 ratio was necessary. Likewise, with usable open space, there's a requirement of the 3F district that we would have to have at least 300 square feet per dwelling unit. Because we reduced the number of units, again, that variance, the extent of that variance would also be reduced because we only required a 600 less square feet than what was originally required. Last is a required off-street parking. Again, the reduction from 9 to seven units reduced the requirement from parking from 13 to 9 spaces, even though we are proposing seven spaces, we were originally granted relief for less than a number of parking at Article 53. In the last year, I just want to highlight, because I think it's important for the boards understanding of where we ended up with this. With respect to the height of the building, this building was originally approved by the board at a height of 45 feet 10 inches. Because of the adjustments to the building, the necessity to include a parking in grade rather than subgrade, a height of the building was actually increased a little over 4 feet. That is significant because of one of the items that we did receive relief for. Since this project was approved, however, Article 25A, which deals with coastal flood resiliency overlay districts, was enacted by the Boston Zoning Commission, and it's part of the Boston Zoning Code now. Within Article 25A, Madam Chair, we are permitted to actually increase our height higher than what is the base flood elevation. So the height of the building overall increased to a total of 49 feet 10 inches. However, we wouldn't be permitted under Article 25A to go even higher than that, provided that we combined with coastal flood resiliency guidelines. We did address all of that with the BKDA, including all of the design elements that we've incorporated into this latest design. And the BKDA has approved our design based upon the changes that we made, including the coastal flood resiliency overlay guidelines. So with all of that said, we are simply asking the board to essentially confirm the updated new plan, which is before the board, has been filed with IASD, has been reviewed by the plans of Ziaminar, as requiring no additional Zoning relief. And as I said, has already received design review approved by the board, by the BKDA. Simply what we're asking for is the board to adopt this plan, as board final elaborate, as the updated plan for the approvals. And as I mentioned, this reduces the project from nine, seven units, maintains the exact same roughly exact same gross area, reduces the parking to seven spaces, and increases the height slightly over 4 feet consistent for coastal flood resiliency guidelines. I'm happy to pause and address any comments or questions before, but wanted to make sure that the board understood this is more of a technical request than it will be for any substantive relief that we would be looking for. Great, thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, is this up for rentals or home ownership? This was originally intended for home ownership. I believe that remains to be the program at this time. It will be the Aura surprise for the condos. This is in Jeffrey's point. I'm not exactly certain of what the market is for that area. I do believe somewhere in the $600 per square foot range is probably the target price point. But again, based upon where we are with the market and interest rates, that certainly could change. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? I have a question. So obviously the project had to change. Students location in the coastal zone, but you know, it was behind the decision to maintain parking and put it at grade. I mean, to me, that just seems an issue with runoff and any measures that are taken to sort of mitigate that. Yeah, that's a great question. A couple of reasons why parking was maintained through the chair, Ms. Wewell. When we went through the community process for this, we did have an extensive dialogue with the Jeffrey's Point Neighborhood Association. Parking for this area was viewed as critical based upon the number of units we were proposing. We were able to still maintain parking at that lower level. And because we are seeking compliance, voluntary compliance with coastal flood resiliency, as well as our location, or being located within a flood zone, we are limited to habitable space on the ground level. And therefore, the highest and best use we felt for that level would be to maintain the parking, as well as other building amenities and the ability to have those entranceways of lobbies, etc. But again, those are all intended to be designed consistent with coastal flood guidelines, even though that's not required unless it's an article-edicides project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here in Dunne, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve the changes to the project. Now, the second. Second, go ahead. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Then the next is case of B-O-A-141-5359, the address of 457-469-A West Broadway, if the applicant and or their representative are explained to the board. So, yes, members of the board, Madam Chair, Doug Steffenog, Steffenog Architects, Business Address of 423-West Broadway, South Boston. Thank you all for your time this morning. A fairly simple request. I have a project where we're now fitting out the commercial spaces, any 44-unit building, and I'd like to add a zoning article 68 allowed use to the language of the decision. I'd like to add a beauty spa use to the listed uses for our new tenant for one of those spaces on the ground level. That's fairly, that's fairly, that's. Yes. Sure. Sounds good. Any any questions from your board? All right, hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you all very much. Next we move on to the building code relief or not scheduled for 9.30 a.m. You have case B.O.A. 1527248 with the address of 106 Ball Girls Street in the applicant and for their representative. I'll include 20. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Doug Anderson. Yes. Please proceed. Thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. Doug Anderson with commercial construction consulting LLC at 313 Congress Street in the C-Corp. And this building was converted into seven condominiums back in the mid 1980s and that is based solely on the assessing records. It goes back to 1986. There are no building permit records or plans for this conversion and construction. It was previously 10 units and went down to seven. For some reason this one unit on the third floor in the front of the building was only provided a single means of egress which was the main stair in the building. All the other units have at least two means of egress by connecting balconies typically on the alley side. So we consider to connecting balcony on the front over to 104 but as you know this introduces a couple of the different complications. One is it would mean back back to architectural commission approval which would be extraordinarily doubtful. And secondly it would also involve having to address the Jason Conminium at 104 Mall Girls Street which introduces other complexities and actually would probably lengthen the amount of time that would take to resolve this. So our proposal was to ask ISD for a compliance alternative which is in the building code ISD has he farry to approve it when we have construction difficulty which we would have here. So our compliance alternatives as follows. Number one, all of the units have sprinklers in the kitchens which was required back in the building code back when this was converted. And of course the kitchen is the most likely place for a fire to start in a unit like this. Main stairway is also fully sprinkler. And we had the subject unit number four fully sprinkler and we will be providing that unit with a system horn strobe so that we get an earlier warning than but otherwise be taking place. There is an error in my attachment and travel distance. We had measured, we had submitted at 135 feet where the code permits in a fully sprinkler building. And in 25 we took a tape a few months ago with John Gorman. And it's actually 87 feet from the front door of the unit down to the bottom of the stairway. The compensated building would be the entry door into the vestibule. So for a non-full sprinkler building that limit is 75 feet. So we're only 12 feet over which is what three or four times depending on how long the journey is. It's all downstairs. There's no horizontal travel except between the flights. So this is what our request is. The building just had a full fire alarm system. And the unit strobe has not yet been installed. There was a communication mix up with the fire alarm company there now looking at putting that in at some point. But this has been an existing condition for almost 40 years and we're trying to rectify it. You have a balcony or any other type situation? This particular unit we would have to have a balcony over to 104. And in the front of the building of course in the back bay, the BBAC has jurisdiction over both the front and the main street side and the alley side. There was a case a number of years ago I worked on when I was a planned examiner where I had to approve a fire escape in the rear of the building even though BBAC denied it. But in this case, when we meet the travel distance limits, we're just one story too high and of course with the code. No, my question was do you have one so you don't have one? No, no, not for this unit. We do not know. I'm sure. Okay. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair, do I have a question? I think I'm going to start understanding. How has this come up now? Is there work ongoing? Why has this become an issue when you say this conversion was done quite a while ago? I just want to give you a quick look at the two. That's a good question, Mr. Aiken. It turns out that the current tenant questioned the landlord, you know, question the owner of a condo about only having one exit. And the tenant went to, well the owners went to John Gorman and John called me and I looked at and said, yeah, yeah, problem. We got to fix it. I'm just, I'm just explaining that most folks don't understand means of egress. So apparently this person had a funny feeling about it and turned out to be a correct one. So is this something that the fire department usually needs to weigh in on? Obviously they would require a second or would want a second egress means it. Good question, Madam Chair. This is a building code requirement that we're dealing with. The building code variance and the fire department would only be involved with fire protection systems such as approval of the sprinkler of the fire alarm. They don't address means of egress or maintenance of means of egress in non-assembly and non-place, in places that are not places of assembly, such as this. So they wouldn't weigh in. Okay. And I do want, I do want folks members to be aware in case you have not seen it that the, that the NAB neighborhood associated a back bay did submit an email in opposition to this request. Have folks see that just so that you're aware? Any other questions from the board? I am more of a clarifying question, Madam Chair. So it sounds like, you know, the issue here is lack of second means of egress and the sort of remedy is to either pursue a balcony through the BBAC. That's the right acronym or to seek building code relief. Is that correct? That's correct. And truth be told, we found, actually Mark Joseph found some plans from 1963 that actually showed that balcony in front. We suspect it was removed during the 1980s renovation with both one of four and one of six recondylcombrated, but we don't have any records. There's no, there's no wrong form or plans or anything for this, for this work. And this unit is currently being rented to a tenant? That's correct. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none. Does someone want to put forth a motion? Madam Chair, you can ask for a public testimony if you want. I don't know. A group that's in that email zone, but you can ask for public testimony. Yeah, just, just because there are anyone who wants to speak. I think we'll see when you raise hands at the moment. Okay. No. Any other official? Okay. Okay, there was a, and that popped up. Do we want to go right to it, Martin? Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Martin Red. I'm Chair of the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay, and therefore, I guess you would only responsible for this letter that was sent in, which we only received a notice of this issue very, very recently. In thinking about it, we used the, Chair, very strongly to the idea of having only a single egress. I recognize the, I think we recognize the difficulties that are encountered, but it seems to me that now in this to continue, what would send a very dangerous signal to other people, maybe in some of the situation that I've never known that. In fact, the fire department has not been involved, simply because this is a building code, rather than one that is a fire code, I guess, is to me quite shocking. I mean, it seems to me that the fire department should be consulted and express their opinion about whether they regard this as a good idea, because when there is a fire, they will of course be the ones who called upon to respond. So those are the additional comments I have to make, and thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thank you. So can the gentleman who just testified tell us what the solution he would recommend? Yes, we did have additional protection. I think Ms. Panato was asking the speaker. Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Martin from the lab, would you like to talk? Other than a building code variance, is there a solution? Yes. Are you asking me the appellant? You're new to Martin. No, I was asking the gentleman who's from the... Okay. I'm, you know, I'm, I'm certainly not familiar with the plans and of this building, and I've asked my colleagues in there if they have access to the plans, and so, you know, we're really not in a position to say what an alternative solution might be. I've heard the comments about the possibility of a balcony, and it seems to me that that should be, that that should be explored further, given the seriousness of at this stage of the game, the stage of our understanding of building codes and safety, only having one egress. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I reply? Yes. The building code under certain conditions does allow a single exit from a building. When a, the building is fully sprinklered, and b, you're no higher than the third floor, and c, when there's no more than four units per floor, you could build brand new buildings like that today with a single exit. We are as close to meeting those conditions as is feasible in this 1880s Tomhouse, we are one floor higher than we're allowed to be under the coach or new construction. Our travel distance for a fully sprinkled building is 87 feet, the code allows 125, so we'll well below that threshold. That said, but not the building is quote, not fully sprinklered. The unit is fully sprinklered. All the common areas of fully sprinkler and the kitchens and the remaining units are equipped with a sprinkler system. So we've done as much as we can from a life safety perspective to mitigate this, and we have grounds under the base, you know, coach or new construction to ask for the variance. I would not be in front of this board if I felt there was any life safety hazard to these occupants at all. Given the improvement, given the improvements that have been made. How many? How many? Man, chair, this is how many are so if the board does not feel confident in the ability to determine this outcome, the applicant can go secretly from the board of building regulations and standards or building code relief that board has more specialized knowledge and building code. I would, if this board decides that, I would recommend to do a dismissal without prejudice this applicant can refile and combat for the board within the one year. You have done an opportunity to go to that alternative board that you just referenced. Yes. Okay. Yeah. I'd make a motion to dismiss without prejudice. Is there a second? Not yet. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. And I'd just like to add that I think that for some reason does come back to us for any reason that we would want to hear that the alternative with about any out front with 104 has been further explored. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Yes. I'm sure I have a question for how we are for future hearings. How we are, is there any difference between dismiss without prejudice and denial without prejudice? Yes. I do. I'm sorry. Did you ask for the difference between those two? Yes. Is there any difference or is the same just for future? Well, if it's a straight denial it will be the applicant cannot come until one year after the decision. Caviar the question it because you're using you're using dismiss and denial interchangeably and we commonly say denial so we just want to be clear good question. I know dismiss them denial. I mean the same thing with denial without prejudice. I apologize on the spoke. All right, so I'm confused as further. Let's take it out. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Valencia. All right. I think we're on to the 930s. We're going with 930 hearings. First we have case POA. As girls and deferrals. Go. With arrows and deferrals. We give me close. Our last is not now after there are any requests for withdrawal with deferrals from this timeframe. I see you at least in the car. Excuse me Kyle. Are you looking at deferrals or do you need to be elevated to a panelist? Okay. I'm sorry. I have no additional ways to answer. Then we'll go back to case POA 133. 5853. With the address of 46 Parkham Street. Is the applicant and or their representative. The president's works by. Yes, thank you Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair of the members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy business address of 168th Street first floor self-boston. Joining me today is the owner Brian McKay as well as the architect David Fried. This is a proposal to change the occupancy from a two family dwelling to a three family dwelling by way of renovating the existing interiors and expanding a little bit space by way of a vertical addition of a dormer on both the left and the right hand side. The dormant will be approximately three feet above the ridge and 46 feet long. The footprint of the building will not be altered at this point. We're in a two F five thousand sub district which creates a use violation as we are proposing three units in an area of writing that has many other multi-family dwellings. The three units will range from 941 square feet to 1291 square feet. Unit one located on the first floor will consist of a two bed. Unit two located on the second floor will consist of another two bed and unit three on the third floor will consist of a three bed. We have the following additional violations. We have an FAR violation proposal calls for a slight increase in the FAR at a point six two. A post-fifth Revolvings Building compliant here. Building height we are below the height requirements and feet but have a story violation as we are proposing three stories and two and a half stories is what is compliant. Lastly we have pre-existing violations for both the side yard and the front yard even though the footprint of the building is remaining the same. At this point I'm going to pause for any questions comments or concerns from the board. Thank you that would be helpful. Can you clarify the the case notes that you're converting to two family to five dwelling units and up the number of a butter letter is that we're also addressing this as a conversion from two to five but now you're talking about two to three. Correct yes Madam Chair. So we do have an updated refusal of the change of plans with based upon the community feedback. The original proposal calls for five units. We substantially reduced that down to three units not altering the footprint of the building and just using the the donors on the left and right hand side. We did complete the community process as well as having those plans presented to the community as well as to the civic group and it seemed to be well perceived at that point in time. We did hear major concerns again surrounding the five units and that's why we revised those plans and again we do have the updated refusal that was in our possession and that was advertised from what I was told correctly and properly. Okay other questions from the board. Okay hearing none I'm going to ask for public testimony please. Yes good morning Madam Chair. I'm the board Frank Mendoza here with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. 46 persons did have two butters meeting at the second meeting which was advertised for three rather than five units there were no attendees. Our office is not receiving letters of support or opposition and the Brighton also improvement association zoning cherry anabelle gomes is also present to testify as to the stance of a specific association took the applicant did present to the civic association at this time we'd like to defer to judgment of the sport thank you. Thank you. Good morning this is my McRae from Councillor Braggens' office to Councillor Layton go on record and support of this project. She would like to request that the board consider provisions for review of the review of the parking for reduction parking and require concerns of the board require provision for use of permeable pavers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's Carson Street. We're going to give testimony here. I have no additional phrase here at the moment. Okay great thank you. Any additional questions from the board? Yes I'd like to hear from Pauline in response to the comments I think was it from Councillor Braggens' office about reduction in parking and permeable pavers. You talked about the parking count for three units? Yes so we do have six parking spaces in the rear as you can see from the drawings there's an existing garage that will be containing two parking spaces and then along the exterior of the premises on the side on the rear yard there are provided full more parking spaces. I don't think we could actually commit to removing any of those spaces because we are compliant with this proposal as far as the parking and if parking spaces were removed at this point time would create an additional zoning violation and would have to take us back to the process. The feedback from the community they were appreciated of having parking and being parking compliant as well and as the permeable pavers I definitely think that is something that can be reviewed and I'm sure if this you know if this is approved there will be a BPA design review process that can be structured as far as permeable pavers to help with the drainage. Thank you. Well Jessica do you want to go back to 56 persons who still have a return? Okay go ahead 56 persons and Benjamin. 56 persons is Michael sorry I'll tell you that I was going to voice opposition to this because originally I got in the mail it came in conversion of two to five units however from two to three units the neighbors are in support. Thank you. Thank you I just wanted to reiterate what Michael said I came on this call expecting to let me speak in a position and I am very happy that this is the direction that the owners taking does my neighbor thank you. Can you just take your address as well sir? Sorry. We're the parcel straight directly about her. Thank you. Thank you. Okay with that maybe we have a motion? A motion of the PDA design review. Can I have a second? Second. Mr. Stombridge? Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Lanzio. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Apen. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Great thank you. Next we have a viewway 148. 7447. With the ad you have 77.779. With Troll Street. With the applicant and with the applicant and with the applicant. Yes I'm here. Okay. Please proceed. I believe the and I believe the homeowners on as well. Yes ma'am. Hi Rick Ames. Next phase studio is architects. 311 Washington Street Brookline and speaking for Nicholas and Nancy are here I guess they will speak up. This is very similar in some ways to the project that you just heard. This is an existing two family that is being proposed to add there are dormers on it but we're looking to increase the size of the dormers and we're looking to add additional living space in the lower level in the basement. It is going to be owner occupied they're on the building for 10 15 years. They would like to they have traditionally it is a very traditional sort of two you know two bedroom five bedroom two family and they'd like to stop renting out the five bedroom because it seems to be a problematic rental that turns over fast and as students and they would love to have it be something that's a little more stable. So they would like to extend the e-grad it has two means of e-gress now. But they would like to sort of convert it out of kitchen and convert it into a full full armament on the top floor but you know so if you drop down if I could actually drop down they are adding living space in the basement. And so this is you know and they're adding this two bedroom unit up on the third floor by doing the big dormer here and the big dormer here. They're going to got the place and try to make it very energy efficient and convert it to all electric. The actual you know we're not changing window openings per se we're going to put in high performance windows and reclub the building. Most of our violations are from a not the existing non-conforming the way it was cited on the site it's very you know calm if you go to the first page you can see it's it sits on the lot very similar to how everything else in the neighborhood does and so we need you know that's the building envelope that's allowed by zoning. So anything we do needs relief and we need relief for parking side yard non-conforming and FAR of which we're very consistent with the neighborhood and what we're retaining we're providing three tandem spots and I think the really the intention is to convert this into something that they feel that they can manage and maintain long-term. Any questions from the ward hearing none can we public testimony? Yes good morning Madam Chair members of the board Frank Mendoza here bears off significant services of 77 Lichfield Street we did host in the butters meeting no butters warrant attendance the all-sensific association did vote in support I don't believe in bright null-sensific association has voted on this project our offices not received any other letters of support or opposition the board should have a letter from the ACA on file as of this morning that said we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time thank you thank you good morning Madam Chair members of the board Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association we would like to go and work it in support whenever we have an opportunity to encourage and retain owner occupancy I was in your community we certainly have a very much in favor of that so we'd like to go and work it in support thank you no additional ways to just moment that chair I think that's all right sorry good morning this is more of a creative and councilor brains office councilor would like to defer to the board on this project but she did want to raise a concern about the inclusion of living space in the basement we've seen just due to the ongoing climate crisis we've seen increased precipitation and issues with stormwater flooding particularly in this area just anecdotally over the summer we've had a number of issues with constituents reaching out to us about flooding significant flooding in their basement units and difficulties with exiting their units when flooding has occurred so we just want to make sure that this unit will be safe for any future potential tenants thank you Mr. Ames do you want to address that before we take make a motion? we are aware of that resiliency is very much consideration of the homeowners this will be a unit that's integral with their first floor unit and have both egress windows and two means of egress out of that floor and I think we are well aware of the climate implications we are putting in you know a full perimeter drain and sort of being focal of materials and what we are putting down there so that it is more resilient soon ever there be a major event or impact to it thank you ma'am motion we'll make a motion to approve ma'am second second mr. Stembridge yes as we will yes mr. Ralencia yes miss panato yes mr. Collins yes mr. Aiken yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you for your time next we have case B.O.A. 151 3801 with the address of 39 to 41 Murdoch Street is the applicant and or their representative to explain to the board yes and you hear me yes we can sir okay thank you my name is first good morning madam chair members of the board my name is Dr. Bob Bryant and the owner of 41 Murdoch Street right this is a family family-owned property it's been in my family for 50 years now grew up at the site the intentions of this various request for a variance is to convert an existing two family house into a three family house the first floor unit is a three bedroom apartment the second floor unit is which takes up the entire second and third floor is a six bedroom in it and there's been great difficulty in in in honestly renting a unit of that size it's we propose no additions in living space or no additional no normers there's no need to it's a very big house what we what a proposal to do is to have an individual unit on each floor of property each unit will have two needs of the address it's by understanding we're going to have a sprinkler system as well there's regarding the violations it's a two family-zoned area to have two five-doubt two F five-doubts excuse me and our only violation is the the use is three family tonight questions from the board hearing none can I have public testimony yes good morning madam chair members of the board Frank Mendoza here also brightly liaison mayor's office of neighbor services project at 3941 Murdoch street the avutors meeting we had one of butter who lived at 44 Murdoch who was concerned about density and parking and another who was concerned about student versus family big tenants the brightened the applicant did present to the brighten also improvement association the zoning chair and available gomes is on to testify as to the stance that they took our office also received four letters of support for the project one from 81 maples and one from 85 maples and one from eight dust and one from the abouter f 45 Murdoch that said at this time we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board thank you thank you do you want to put the additional raise hands okay a madam chair and about gomes from the brighten also improvement association would like to go on record and support thank you thank you was that may I have a motion motion to approach now the second that they are so stumberg yeah as we love yes mr. relancia yes mr. Panato yes mr. Collins yes Mr. Eik yes here also well it's yes motion carries good luck sir thank you good day next we have to case be away 152 5307 with the address of 1256 to 1262 river street it is the applicant and will they represent the present towards Blanchard and board yes i am mr. time rich good morning madam chamber was the board attorney Derek small a business address of 51 dobs and roared in the brain tree we're here today seeking relief to remove the proviso that the board placed on as a function hall you know for the last year the function hall has been operating very smoothly hosting a number of events such as wedding receptions kids parties and most recently a breast cancer awareness fundraiser and so we are seeking to remove the proviso but the board placed on the function hall to continue operations thank you questions from the board hearing none may i probably test the money i yes madam chair members the board corner to move the nearest off neighborhood services this time may also to defer to the judge from this board i don't have a lot of information on this proposal due to personnel changes but unaware of any immediate concerns at this time thank you any other raised hands Jessica yes caller six one seven three six four center request to unmute you looking to give testimony here so can you out there you know yep you're looking to give testimony for this case it's good morning your madam chair named Greg Martin call justice street high park don't have much to reccomit but a question i know that there was a pro-isal with place under a different applicant's name and was to remain under that applicant's name but i see today that we now have a different applicant and i'm confused as to what the situation was after riser was placed there for a certain applicant but it's a different person today so you don't you're not in favor or you're not here to speak in favor of opposition i'm not in favor of opposition i have a question thank you mr small do you have a response just to that quick question sure the original application filed last year for the functional was in the name of the owners but it's still the owners and the owners are on the call today but when i apply that's why it comes up as dirt small being the applicant thank you any other questions from the board here and not may have a motion emotional proof now a second thank you mr. sandwich yeah as we will yes mr. valencia yes minz panato yes mr. Collins yes mr. achin yes you're also votes yes motion carries thank you mr. small thank you madam Jim loves the board i'll get that next we have case b o a one four two four six five six with the address of 1471 blue hill avenue is it the applicant and or their rest of the president's over to claim the request is what yes good morning mr. secretary madden chair members of the board attorney nix azulum like during the quality and Miller with me today is scott shot who's from the link and avenue capital in the limon who's the project developer as well as dan ricardelli who is our architect from arrow street excited to be here today to present this all affordable rental unit project with 41 units under our committee small project review you'll see in our presentation that there really is truly development without displacement on this parcel because it is vacant next slide mr. ambassador thank you this is our site you can see it here in yellow it's kind of a uniquely shaped tetris piece of a lot of vacant land at the corner of blue hill ab in culvert street you can also see the mbt a commuter rail blue hill ab station located directly around the corner from us with them very short walking distance as well as the bus lines along blue hill ab and other landmarks in the neighborhood as well indexed on the right hand side next slide madam ambassador on this side again existing conditions as well you can see the site here a little closer this is an approximately 26,500 square foot property of overgrown vacant land that includes two billboards on the lower right hand side of the parcel along blue hill ab within offense them lot the site is burdened by a steep grade change it's approximately 13 feet to 22 feet depending on where you are various points at the property so it's very constrained and topographically challenged as well as this unique shape again which you can see here there are a lot of trees on the lot currently many of them are invasive and can use some upgrading and updating we worked hard on the plan to maintain as many as we can as well as the plan as many new ones as we can which you'll see in our presentation next slide please again some more additional existing conditions so you can see the grade change of the site culvert street in the existing conditions there there's also on the lower right picture a photo of a city owned kind of small portion of land that's currently used for illegal parking and kind of jumbled parking with a curb cut there at the bottom right as part of this arcley process for the small project review the plan is to make off-site improvements to this small little about 1,350 square foot parcel of city on land at the corner of the site curb extension improvements street trees and visitor blank parking which you'll see in our presentation next slide this is just a slide to show that we are aware worth and plan that a pan we worked hard on the project building site and landscape can be designed to align and complement that plan as well as the blue hill avenue transportation action plan the object is all affordable housing it's looking to help support local businesses enhance connections along the street and to the parcel and provide spaces where people gather which again you'll see in our presentation next slide please we did meet with the community there was a lot of input and comments to this project so during that process we did make changes to the project as a result of the input received as a result of those changes we only need minimal zoning relief which you'll see on our next slide but the overall project size and number of units were reduced the building was pulled back to a zoning compliant 24-year yard setback along culprits street and an off-street loading zone was added as well to provide for folks to you know for for off-street loading and not you know jamming a culvert street for any deliveries or move in move out the unit mix was modified to create more family friendly three-bedroom units we also added residential and bike room entries that I'm sorry were relocated which you'll see to blue hill avenue off culvert street we heard a lot of comments about trying to you know keep a lot of foot traffic and as much traffic off culvert street so we did our best to do that into better activate a proposed pocket park which is along the hill laugh next slide this is again just to provide some of our project details and metrics we can go back to the slide madam chair if there are questions but the project is 47,400 square feet of gross floor area that was reduced to buy about 2500 square feet during the process we do have a zoning compliant floor area ratio of 1.77 you can see on the right hand side we do have a zoning compliant building height we also are complying with all of our yard setbacks which is difficult and such a uniquely shaped lot we're also proposing robust open space 280 square feet per dwelling unit which is more than five times the requirement in the community commercial sub district and that's a mix of the wooded area that we're going to maintain a pocket park a amenity space and a rooftop garden as well the project proposes 41 all affordable rental units you can see the unit mix here there are no studios that was changed as a result of the public process and we did add three bedroom more three bedroom units so as a result the bedroom mix has a 73% ratio of two in three bedroom units and a range of affordability from 30 to 60% AMI the final thing I'll note here is we are proposing 12 onsite parking spaces two of those parking spaces will be building only shared vehicles so basically a zip car that's managed by building but only for the building not for the public and that is was instituted to help mitigate some of the parking concerns that we heard although this is an all affordable project in no Austrian parking is required under the more recent text amendments to the zoning code next slide please thank you and the final slide for me in amateur and I swear we'll show some photos and quick renderings this is just a show that the zoning code relief required for the project is minimal we only need three citations it's basically an azure right zoning project the two very technical variances that we receive were for street wall continuity which is to be determined by the bpda during our relating small project review as well as front yard below grade due to the extreme grade change in topographical conditions that I did mention and we also need a conditional use permit for the multi family residential use in the community commercial sub district we are in an edge condition it's an oversized lot with a lot of unique topography it's not really a suitable location or property for commercial use and so we would suggest that it is a good opportunity for conditional use part of it here so minimal zoning relief needed for the project under the car and zoning and also consistent with that plan amount of hand which I had mentioned at the beginning next slide that ambassador and then Dan from airstreet will quickly go through and show you what I just laid out for you thank you Dan? Thank you Nick and members of the board I'm Dan Rick Adelian the architect and press manager from airstreet I'll just give a brief overview of the project design and further explain the three areas of zoning relief Nick outlined earlier first as you can see on the screen from the plot plan this is a uniquely shaped site it has a significant amount of grade change across it coming up from blue hill ab which is along the right of this plan we've shaped the building to respect all the zoning setbacks and also to maintain the tree canopy that runs along the north side of the property which is on the top of the plan on the screen next slide so moving on to the plans the ground floor is composed of the main residential lobby a bike room and the fitness center which are shown here in blue as Nick mentioned we relocated the entries to the to those spaces off the park park park which is on the top of the plan access to the blue hill ab that's intended for both building residents as well as surrounding community the project also features a community anchor space which is shown here in green on the corner of blue hill ab and culprits street we're looking forward to working with the community and the city to help program that space the project includes new tree trees along blue hill ab and culprits street as well as offsite improvements at the corner of the intersection which is the number five on this plan next slide so on the second logo you can see that we have our parking area which as Nick mentioned is access to off culprits street do the steep slope of the site that's actually one level above the main lobby space and is accessed from grade off culprits street this contains 12 dedicated resident parking spaces as well as the loading area which is number three on this plan next slide please this is our typical residential level which stacks from levels three and four as Nick mentioned all affordable building and this is our typical layout next slide please at the top level here which is level five we have a small community garden space in addition to providing exterior space for building residents this also has benefits for the building massing which brings down the scale of that building towards the residential buildings along culprits street which we can illustrate in the next slide please here's a building section along culprits street where you can see that the building steps at the community garden to create a better alignment with the scale of the neighborhood buildings the section also illustrates the requested relief at the ground level elevation which is 82 to match the sidewalk along blue hill ab the average pay for the site is 866 due to that elevation of change across the site next slide so here's our rendered elevation of that same side of the building along culprits street showing the massing variation of the side treatment we're proposing a building magic photovoltaic facade which along with being an electric building and going for passive house will contribute to the sustainability of this project next slide so next we just want to show a few renderings of the building so here's the view at the corner of blue hill ab and culprits street the green material represented is the building mounted photovoltaic facade the lower level was basin rear material and at the corner you can see the entrance to that community anchor space that I mentioned earlier next slide so here's the view of the project from across blue hill ab and this view you can see that we're trying to maintain the street wall established by the adjacent buildings that run along blue hill ab you can also see the small pocket park that we're creating as the entry to the project and sort of an amenity for the neighborhood this is also the culmination of the tree canopy that comes out from Almont Park it kind of creates this green ribbon that still is at the next slide and so last we just want to show a close-up view of that pocket park space which also shows areas dashed in on the facade that we imagine could be reserved for our murals on the building facade we're looking to work with the city and the community to help activate the space and make it welcoming for for both the residents and neighbors and next slide please thank you all for your time myself and Nick are here for any questions that you guys may have thank you it's no one it's a project manager from bpda available yes yes can you thank you can you walk us through the community process yeah absolutely hi madam chair so on October 3rd of 2022 the proponent filed a small project review application with us for the proposed project we did sponsor a virtual public meeting that was held on February 1st of 2023 via zoom the proponent had met with stakeholders in the neighborhood and immediately adjacent on culberage street throughout the review period and conjunction with that bpda sponsor public meeting as well throughout the process the proponent did address and did respond to specific concerns from the neighborhood by first reducing the gross square footage of the overall project reducing the amount of units from 48 to 41 units and adding an additional 500 square feet of open space to the project site thank you very much thank you questions from the board can you just elaborate on the use of the community anchor space and any intended rent or occupancy charge for that space yes miss piniano i think we're open to all options i don't know scott shot from link and avid might be a little bit more from what they're thinking but you know i think we're open to have in that discussion as to what the use would be um scott do you want to elaborate maybe a little bit more on that yeah we truly want to work with the community and the city on activating that space in terms of rent we're not planning on charging rent to any one for for the use of that space space so we really want it to be community activated thank you okay yes i have two questions yeah yes sir one is i know some of the concerns is about you know traffic and parking um mr. shock can you speak it all to like will you be assigning spaces of those 12 spaces or is it just going to be first come first serve where you'll have people looping in and out just trying to understand the mechanics around that and then the second question is more broadly it has this already then perhaps it's starting on to be pd8 it already has mayors office of housing support you have financing awarded from them any other snapshot about that that status thank you sure yeah in terms of parking um i think as Nick and um mention we have 12 spaces there so we are counting for 30% uh parking ratio to our residents we find in our affordable developments there's a general average of parking needs of 25 to 30% to the extent that there are additional spaces that would be not needed we would look at master leasing spaces and underutilized lot in the immediate and adjacent area in terms of first use we do a lottery for those in need obviously those with handicap accessible needs would come first and then a lottery for the remaining spaces and in terms of the city approval we did submit application to for CPA and NHT funds we did get the mayors certificate of expedited approval um and we have full support from from the city from that context uh less quite less thing i'm sorry funding um we are anticipating a one-stop pre-out application in the coming weeks with uh hoping to be able to submit the full one-stop application uh February 15th does that address your questions mr. again yeah thank you okay any other questions from the board madam chair two questions so um i thought i saw on the civil plan another driveway does that service be it butter and is that on your property um you want to add an answer that then for miss we well i don't know if madman bastard might want to go back to that plan just to illustrate that for miss we will um Dan you want to answer that sure yeah so so the uh the the proposed driveway uh is shown uh yeah right here um you know entering the garage from culperts street uh all the way to the left that driveway is the the abundance driveway which is on um the applicant's property uh we we don't intend to change that so we're kind of leaving that as is okay and my second question so i saw in our materials that the levels of affordability are 30% 60% and 70% AMI but i didn't see how that was dispersed amongst the bedrooms i'm just curious sort of the levels of affordability based on the bedroom mix yeah that's a good question miss we will so i believe that um uh scott you might be best to answer that from a bedroom perspective if we have that information but i know that there'll be up to a project based voucher units at 30% AMI with the rest of them being i believe at 60% AMI i don't know where this is the 70% maybe it's in the board memo scott i don't know if you want to answer that a little bit more detail yeah previously we were um looking at doing some 70% workforce units and we are not doing those anymore so the project is affordable um to residents at 60% below median income um we have uh it's in we have voucher units as Nick said so we have 11 one bedrooms and we have 22 two bedrooms and eight three bedrooms um so in terms of um how the units are dispersed with the project based voucher units um they're not um you know congregated on any particular four in any particular unit um so they'll be dispersed equitably throughout the building and throughout various floors um and as i said so those vouchers are 60% our 30% below median income for the resident depending on what 30% of their income is we'll dictate what they pay and then this balance of the units are at 60% AMI okay and just to make sure so somebody with 30% AMI or a voucher could um lease a three bedroom is that so we will we will certainly take uh anyone with a portable voucher um in need of the unit um in addition to the project base that we'll have so um yes with there will be um out of the eight you know minimum of two and one one bedroom two and a two bedroom two and a three bedroom and we'll determine based on the um wait list information we receive whether or not that it should be more three bedrooms more two bedrooms and equitably disperse it according to to the need that's in the community okay okay yeah well I'm question very quick in the AMI share yes pay restriction in perpetuity yes bro okay okay uh i think there's uh raised hands so let's go to public uh test money good can you guys hear me we sure can mr. James i know you've been struggling guys you don't find i um i so good morning madam share members of the board the average james and the mayor's office of neighborhood services the uh applicant health uh community run for uh held in a bpda run process that's bpda run community meeting so we did not host a uh community meeting from our office but i know the bpda did testify to how that went um the bpda did approve this on september 14th at their board meeting in terms of what our office did um hold with them we did have that meetup that they talked about the cobert shoot residents voice concerns about um the added congestion of the project would cause along with the lack of parking that already existed in the area they were also concerned about the additional congestion um that the additional congestion will lead to more crime in the area and as cobert is already used as a through way um the cut in the out my park they are concerned that this will increase the general usage of their street by non-residents they are also concerned that they that you know again with the parking situation um with the fact that i think it's low parking spaces high number of units they are concerned that the residents will end up parking on their street so they would like to have a little bit more guaranteed that their street would not be used as additional parking or that the residents from this project would not be parking their additional cars in that uh street in terms of the great amount of panning neighborhood council they have stated oppositions stating the following so the gmnc board unanimously support the opposition of the current design of the proposal of 1471 blue little ab by the residents of culber street in that pan culber street is a gut end short street it has a total of seven homes which are either single or two families uh the massing of a building that would have almost a hundred residents on the corner at blue little ab in you and wood havens street over the years residents have uh resisted repeated designs which continuously have garage as it at garage exits directly out on the culber street residents have applied for culber street resident only parking as well so in this sense culber street is not resident only parking at this time so they would like to have a little bit again a little bit more of a guarantee that the parking the lack of parking or the low parking in this development will not spill out onto their street in terms of the support letters the development of the applicants did provide our office with 22 letters of support which we sent over to you guys um and we do have one letter of opposition which the formal letter of opposition by the greater amount of panning neighborhood council and with that thank you guys again we are going to defer our judgment to the board um and thank you again thank you mr. James um good morning chair members of board can't and say listen from councilor Murphy's office um the state is currently vacant and under utilized and it would deliver much needed affordable housing with a focus on family size units again a majority are two to three bedroom as a result of community feedback the size of the building has also carefully been designed to fit zoning plan height and setbacks the council believes that this is a smart development in the midst of a housing crisis um that is impacting working families in the city so she would like to go on our bed and support thank you the morning madam chair members of the board Jordan for us here from Boston City Council of Recorder Royals office led to offer our support for this project thank you Jane then members of the board of council city council has Michael Plierty due to the fact that the brothers who deliver much needed affordable housing focused on family size housing uh two and three bedroom units specifically concerted in our report hi Jane good morning my name is Jim and trans tomorrow and i'm a lifelong resident of Boston representing as a principal with ATO real estate were more importantly i live across the street from this development and as a result i'm lending my support on record of this project thank you thanks for team of you hi i'm Lee good morning my name is Lee good morning my name is Lee good morning my name is council um the other is the residents who think on cardboard street they stated they reached out and said that their submitted letter was not read as part of the record um that they had submitted to both the ZBA as well as to the mayor's office and neighborhood services uh their main objections have to do that it directly um that's also am a part to which they received significant parking um from games games that occur in the Saturdays and Sundays as well as because of the commuter room that is right next door uh it should be noted that more of a hallelujah there is new uh there's no fee parking and therefore they receive a lot more additional um traffic parking from outside of the immediate area for those who are writing their commuter room thank you thank you hey i've got a David and a list hi hi everyone um my name is David my name is David vanter um part of the multi-generational family who's lived here um my parents have lived here for over 50 years what address where do you live please eight eight eight culvertry thank you sir eight culvertry um which is diagonally right across from the Poccile's land um just to know um and i just want to state this um we have met several times with the developers and also the community um while it has been said over and over again that they have worked with us that is not true um we voiced our concerns no one has ever once said that we don't want anything to go there however what is being proposed is going to seriously disrupt a multi-generational seven house street okay um and it's going to impact property values it could impact foundational concerns of the slate that is already there um it's definitely going to cause not not just traffic foot traffic and no one has mentioned this is not a two-way street okay so every ambulance or fire truck that comes up the street usually has to either back in or back out every delivery truck that comes in and i've sent pictures of that usually has to back out the garbage trucks usually have to back in especially when there are two cars on each side of the street no we can't even come out of our driveways in addition to that there's been significant property damage where people turn into our driveways and my game specifically has been hit several times in which i have to replace other people have had their lawn-striven over so this is just not necessarily a parking issue it's a safety issue or emergency vehicles as you know amazon trucks and also to delivery trucks now he's right right has to be alert so what so what i'm saying is that this is going to significantly impact us and as somebody who works from home think about all of the noise and construction and everything that's going to be associated with this car. Thank you sir. Okay there are no easy to ask and you can put in any information okay get a Lewis go ahead to briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition. Thank you yeah i'm along with my regular boss and i'm constantly in that neighborhood and can i stay for Adder? yeah already on the street and i i'm supporting the project thank you. Thank you. Yeah you want me to go and i'm chair? Oh god how many more reasons we have? The raid. Okay please be quick folks. Okay Tiffany and the favorite. Hi everyone my name's Tiffany Baskill. I live at 12 Colbert Street. I've been here for 41 years. My mom has been here over 50 years. We've asked the developers for studies on traffic in the area. We've asked for parking studies. A lot of doing snowing emergency. A lot of the residents that live nearby on Blue Hill Ave park on our street. Churches, Jubilee's across the street. Another church like we have so many churches in the vicinity that park on our street. There's hardly ever any parking on our street. There's a lot of crime in Almont park and on Almont street. And we try people run down Colbert street that have committed crimes into the park down our street. And we feel like these things are not being addressed and not being looked into. And it's we're not saying that we don't want something on the street but it needs to not be this massive and the parking situation needs to be sorted out better. Thank you. Thank you. Can I just turn back to the developer? I think it would be helpful if you could comment on the concerns on Colbert and clarify your curb cut situation and how the traffic is inflated. Yeah, Madam Chair. No, I mean we didn't meet with these folks and I think we tried to address the concerns as best as we could. We were understanding of them. We didn't meet multiple times and so we didn't pick that lightly whatsoever. I would say that Blue Hill Lab, I think it was mentioned it's a one-way street. It's not a one-way street. It's a dead end street. But we've tried to address as much as we could. There's only 12 spaces and we have our own loading and unloading which should alleviate some of those turnaround concerns because of the Blue Hill Lab Transportation Action Plan and BPDA design review we were told that we, you know, Blue Hill Lab as a parking entry and dry-vile was not going to work because of the plans for Blue Hill Lab. So that's the reasoning behind where the parking and the curb cut is for the project. We're not trying to be a part of the problem. We're trying to be a part of the solution with some of these other issues which seem like they are existing issues on the street. If there's an opportunity for us and for the developer to be a part of that, for instance, from a crime perspective, having a non-vagan lot with eyes in the street and more activity is going to be helpful. We would suggest we're happy to look at resident permit parking and how to support the neighbors through our process and that has been something that we've worked with the Camille at the BPDA and Kenya Veemin as well. So we're open to having these suggestions but, you know, we don't need a parking variance because it's an all affordable budget. And so we've tried to balance the concerns that we heard from the neighborhood about traffic and parking with the concerns and the need for affordable housing. So we tried to create a balancing act but, you know, we are understanding the comments and the concerns that we heard today and throughout the process and that's why we made the changes we made to try and address them by removing as much activity off of Calvert Street and onto Blue Hill Ave from an entryway perspective from the parking park and things like that. But there are certain things because of the grade change and because of planning initiatives for this site and the immediate area that we just can't accommodate. And, you know, it's an architect, small project review, all affordable projects. There's no requirement for a traffic study. You know, we did make sure that we comply with the Blue Hill Ave Transportation Action Plan and to work with the city's transportation folks to make sure that we address as much as we could as part of the project. So, you know, I think we're hoping to not make the perfect the enemy of the good here or vice-farsome, whichever one you want to choose. But we did try to address these as best as we could as a development team. So thank you. Other questions from the board? I can't see the board. Okay. Hearing done. Can I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. Can I have a second? Second. Mr. Stammerich. Yeah. As we will. Yeah, so I just want to point out, you know, I hear in the concerns of the neighbors, but I think the public benefits here outweigh sort of the scale of the project. The affordable housing is at 60% less than 60% AMI. There's community room and also residential trip generation tends to be less than commercial. So I think this is a great use for the site and I'm happy to see it. So I'll ask for it. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Sorry. Are you good? Yes. Mr. Aiken. Oh, yes, I think it's appropriate project and that it needs the required variances and conditional use permit. I do hope to develop where we'll work more closely with the cobert street residents and support them in their efforts for resident parking. I agree. It's a good use of the space with that but you're also support supports. Man, I'm sorry. I haven't. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr. Valencia. Thank you. I agree with the comments. I support the project. The creation of 41 affordable units in perpetuity. Something that is going to really help the community in Boston. So my boat is yes. I get it now. Okay. Did I miss any other board members? I'm so sorry. Good work. Mr. resident. Can anyone hear me? Well, we're already in the middle of the voting and I it sounds to me like you do live on cobert and we have heard from cobert. So with that I'm going to also support the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you board members for your time. Thank you. We'll jump in since it's after 11 a.m. We'll jump ahead. We'll be hearing your schedule at that time. To now if there are any requests for which all are deferred from the 11 a.m. time for it. I have a raised hand here. Helen? Yes. No. I just want to comment when we get to the 7G sunny side. Okay. Okay. Thank you. If that means that we don't have any requests for the draws to deferral from the 11 a.m. time for it, then we will go to case BOA 1, 28, 5053 with the address of 7 to 7G sunny side street. Would the applicant and or their representative point of board? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Alfonso Sierra, I'm the applicant and architect. My business address is 523 Met per street in Charlestown and I'm working with a lean construction and also the owner Pierre Benaldo Verdea and he's been a resident of this property for 17 years and his goal is to become the owner developer and he wishes to keep one of the units and sell the 7 other units. This is a total of eight townhouses that he's proposing. If you can go to the next slide, please. The existing site, as you can see from the lower site plan, it's a weird shape, sort of not exactly landlock but it's a different larger mod. It's about 20,000 square foot located off sunny side road. We, one of the biggest concerns, we have meb with ISD, we had some meetings with him and also with the Boston Fire Department. One of the biggest concerns to make this viable was whether we could have fire truck access to the site and we do indeed have that. We did a fire truck study to make sure that that would comply so it does work and that's one of the reasons why we have to design the building in a way that it's set back closer to the back so that the fire truck could access. The building, can you move to the next slide, please? The next one too, I just want to go through the floor plans. Next one, please. Next one. Yeah, so basically the first floor, if you can move up a little bit, the first floor is, this is the second floor so if you can move the slide up a little bit, the first floor is, we provide two parking spaces for the units and the units are going to be four levels so on the first floor we'll have access to the units front and back and then we have two parking spaces per unit for a total of 16 parking spaces that are away from the street so there's not going to be any impact to the existing parking off street or on street I should say, sorry. Above the parking will have the living dining and kitchen and if you can move to the next slide, please, then we have, on the third, we'll have bedroom and bathroom and then above that on the fourth, we'll have a bedroom and a study and we're also providing, in order to give back to the open space, we're providing balconies for all the units in the rear of the building away from the car access. If you can go through all the different slides, it would show the side views and yeah, this is the front and this is the rear where you have the balconies and that's basically all I have if anybody has any questions, concentrate. Thank you. Questions from the board? Can you address sort of the context on this street from what I can see on sunny side? It's a mixture of like 2003 bed, around two or three unit houses and this is a lot larger than anything on that street. So can you talk about why you've chosen such a dense development? Well, I mean, the lot is a larger lot. It's sort of unique for the area. If you look at the first page, the cover page, it has a Google, insert of Google Maps so you can see that the lots are typically too much smaller. This is an oversized lot. I mean, in any area of Boston, this would be a perfectly developed lot in my opinion. It's closed, as you can see here, close to 19,000 square feet for, you know, so it is a different size lot. I do agree that context is not as dense as this building, but yeah, that's true. Other questions from the board? Land trail question. So you're essentially starting with a blank slate here with the lot, so why, why are the variances for the side setbacks at less than five feet? Because, I mean, in order to, well, the variances on the side setbacks, the lot is, as you can see, it's sort of weird, so we don't really have a frontage that meets the, they require width, because you have a 22, 22.4 frontage of sunny side. So, you know, in order to be able to access the units and to provide the units to make the project viable or buildable, we have to stretch it as much as possible. So, what are the size of each of the units? The size about 24, 100 square feet. That's including the lower, the lower level parking which has two parking spaces. So, in essence, if you count, you know, the garage or the two parking spaces is not a livable space, but I'm counting that as 24. It's roughly per plate, it's about 600, and if you look at, yeah, you can see right there, 640 square feet per plate. So, okay, thank you. Can we do it from the BDA? Should I, if Jeff, have some comments on this here? Are you available, Mr. Hampton? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm just in for thank you, Jeff Hampton, BPD8. We recommend this denial of this petition. There was a similar petition a couple of years go back in 2021 that they also proposed eight units which the board denied. Though we just think with new constructionism, it's going to be well-added brought up. You know, if you're having new construction, you can make some of these setback requirements work. We feel that the number of units is too much given that it's one family district. To Ms. Panados' point, there are two's and three's in the neighborhood. However, we feel eight units is excessive, and we felt that way a couple of years ago where eight units was proposed before this board, and we recommended denial at that time. So, where are the records recommending to not put this project? Thank you. Thank you. Is that can we public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling on anyone with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks at deferred to the judgment of this board. So, back on information, the community process, ONS Hosts, a community meeting, and the applicant went on to meet with the Factory Hill Neighborhood Group, as well as connecting with the High Park Neighborhood Association. The Factory Hill Neighborhood Group sent a letter of opposition in which the board should have access to, and I understand that the High Park Neighborhood Association sent in a letter of non-support. I believe the concerns related to density and character of the neighborhood are without deferred to the board. Thank you. Is there anything I want to add that just what the BPD I mentioned, it was an eight unit, it was all units that was proposed originally, so just two. Okay. You can respond after we finish public testimony. Thank you. We have a letter of official offices before we get to the public. Okay, Jihla, we're going to give testimony here. Guys, are you, are you, are you joining me? Yes. Yes. Okay, this is a good project because I, we were applied for the 12 unit after at the beginning of 2021, but so the concern of people who have, you know, we have plenty of city of Bursting and Metropolitan House, and you know, we were asked me, asked all the time about they need, they have people in the need, people has a lot of great need. We don't do a project like that to, to say these are for affordable housing, for to help people, or home, or occupy. That, I think, is a good project. That means that we'll be the value of the community value. So I think is, if we look at an hypercarrier, there is no, you know, can you put your, have you said to the record? For the record? Yeah. Yeah, I am, I am here. They were all of what? This project? Yes. Okay, then we, let's please move on. I'm Jim. Jim? Yes. Jim Elliott, three Franklin Street, I have thought. I just want to make a note that the original remarks about the neighborhood being two and three family, that's actually not correct. The island of houses that this project is on is largely single family. There are a few two family. And of note, there was a two family kind of filled in over Thompson Street. I, if you think of it as the island of the reservation road, West Thompson Street and Franklin Street and sunny side. So, about in the rear adjacent to this property, there was two family jammed in about 10 years ago. Most all the other opposition, sir. My opposition is density. My opposition is also, I said in the written, in written response, I don't know if you've folk got it. The site elevation issues are regarding the hill. This is a hillside. So, in the neighborhood presentation, the developer did not address any of the issues regarding our need for retaining wall on the uphill side of the lot or the address, the issue of egress through this very narrow driveway. He says that they went over with the fire department. I did not see any study. He said there was an engineering study. He presented no engineering study. I'm concerned about that presentation being the reason for because of his narrow driveway. That is the sole access to the site. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I'm Collar. I just got the tip. Do we use 614-45? I heard you met a person in the mirror. You're looking to get a testimony on this proposal. Good morning, madam. I'm Craig Martin, a cold-chested street. I use the utilized snakewood to all there in the summer for a high-pots beauty guide, but the top. So, we're very familiar with sunny side. Yes, this is a large lot, but much too small to this size of project. I do want to clarify. Earlier, he was using balcony space as a substitute for open space. No, that is not. Article 59 is not allowed in a single family zone to substitute balcony space for the required open space. So, they are well-short of the required open space. I just want to clarify that. He was incorrect. The architect on that aspect. I did hear and mentioned in the presentation something about the need for affordable, but my sentence is that there is no affordable unit here. So, I want to make sure that that's known on the record. Okay, thank you, sir. I'm opposed. I opposed and I thank you. Thank you. And I believe there's a telescope. There's an Ellen in French Scalise. Okay. They had their hands raised. Sure. Go ahead. I said a good question. Thank you. Yes, I am the secretary of the Factory Hill neighborhood association and the neighborhood association is in opposition of this. There are four stories is considerably higher than any home on this street and well above the zone height limits. sunny side street cannot handle the additional traffic. It's very narrow and often difficult to navigate. Many times only one car can pass. Emergency vehicles already have difficulty and parking is difficult due to the school buses and the pickup at the Chandler School. It is way out of character with this neighborhood. This is a neighborhood of older single two and some three family homes. This large apartment like building is completely inconsistent with the neighborhood. The lot is insufficient to accommodate a building this size and we do not feel that this is at all appropriate. We understand the need for housing, but we would like to see a proposal or something that is at propose to this neighborhood. Thank you. Thanks. No additional raise hands. Does the applicant wish to comment briefly before we motion? I think I think I'm all set. I just wanted to correct the previous comment by BPD.A. There was 12 units not eight units. So yeah. Okay. Got it. Thank you. Will that be a motion? I'll make a motion to deny without prejudice and just strongly advise the proponent here to go back to the drawing book. That building doesn't work back there. You know this is single families, two families, maximum three families. So you know if you're going to propose a multi-family, I would suggest that you do multiple buildings that are matched in neighborhood. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. That's how you don't pivotally. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Wielow. Yes. And I agree with Mr. Collins that I think and also to my point earlier they're starting with you know a blank slate they could certainly make a project more compliant with the zoning here. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Ackens. Oh yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. You know thank you. Finally for the ninth category you have case to be aware. One through a nine eight zero five five with the interest of 11 not street. The applicant and the representative to explain them all. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair members the board my name is Kyle Smith of St. Tera Law, a business address of three by nine Newbury Street in Boston's back bay. We have a pre-existing three family structure situated on a lot size of 864 square feet. There is effectively a unit on fourth floor. It's I'll continue on third floor and then the intent is to renovate the first unit which is currently on floors one and two. There is you know prior to the current owners ownership basement level area which isn't have work was it head height four livable square footage. So the intent is to dig down by about 18 inches to recapture a little bit of head height make that otherwise then legal to expand the livable square footage of the structure by approximately eight hundred square feet. So the only set of violation we have is an FAR violation. We're currently non-conforming. We're making that non-conformity's slightly worse by the additional eight hundred square feet of livable space and then also erecting a deck off of the floor line of the first floor to the rear of the building. The only intended building envelope changes would be the removal of existing windows on the first floor to the rear in favor of full length windows which act as doors onto the referenced to be created decking. So again the only set of violation that we have is an FAR violation. We do have a letter of non-opposition from the Bay Village Neighborhood Association. We've been a very close communications with our immediate abouters to which we share party walls. Thank you. Questions from the board? No, we hear from the BPD. Mr. Henton. Why do you only want to hear from me when we oppose Sonsa? Because they like you to read it on the microphone. I've got a lot of big questions for our intimate members. We can do that. That's okay. That's fine. That's fine. I'm just sensing a pattern here, but we're well. Thank you members. Madam Chair, members of the vote. We are opposed to the basement addition and the exclamation is down. We're not opposed to the rear deck at all, but we believe that they can. We're just opposed to exhalating. I forget what their attorneys said, but because it's in the G-Cut going down is not something that we are in support of. It's not expanding one living space. Thank you. That worked very well. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Your name can I public testimony? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Can Crucially from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office would like to defer to the board on this matter. We held in a butters meeting on September 19th, where no opposition was shown from a butters. And they also went before the Bay Village Neighborhood Association and received the letter of non-opposition. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Annacca Leron from Council President Flings Office. The Council would like to go on recording the report. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Okay. Madam Chair, if there are no other public commentary, may I just respond briefly? Yes, please. So again, we're trying to recapture 18 inches of head height. Is there any pre-existing dug down area? We are not triggering a G-Cut applicability that's been specifically reviewed by ISD, in relation to elevations above mid-flood plain. So we've already been thoroughly through this with ISD, which they ultimately remove. Cheek applicability of confirmed as such. We're also looking to as far as the basement living. We're looking to have increased window well for emergency egress, which would then access the rear patio and then vertically to the deck. So we think that we've satisfied them in conversation with ISD about these specific concerns related to digging down and reclaiming that approximately foot and a half of head height. Thank you, and I see Mr. Sominelli. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. So I just wanted to concur with the applicant statements that we did work with the applicant and ISD to remove that G-Cut violation, which was improperly cited. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'm motion to approve from a BPDA design review. Is there a second? There. Mr. Stambridge. We don't need design review on this. This would be covered by Mr. Lamarck's anyway. So I keep you busy, Mr. Hampton. I'm trying to find the answer. All right, so you want us to amend that to approval? Yes, sir. Okay, do you accept that, Mr. Collins? I do. Okay, and we had a second. So Mr. Stambridge? Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. There also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Next, we'll move on to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. First, we have cases VOA 148 7905 with the address of 51 Fairman Street. Is the applicant and whether they represent the presence of each one? Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Maranze. I'm an attorney with the Disbus Address at 350 West Broadway in South Austin. I represent the city royalty, object architecties, air exactress. And this is an application to change the legal occupancy of the building at 51 Fairman Street from a one family dwelling to a three family dwelling. Then the building and the rear and that two shed dormers one on each side of the people roof. The building is located in a 3F 4,000 three family zoning sub-discert on a 4,300 square foot lot. Each XA one of the plans shows the current flow of plans which consist of an open basement, a kitchen living and dining room on the first floor, along with an enclosed floor. The second floor contains three bedrooms and a thumbroom and the third floor or at a level currently has two bedrooms. In the renovated rendition the basement would have a building washer and dryer as well as building storage space. The first second and third floors would each become a single unit with additional living space in the rear, going to the rear addition which is approximately 20, 7 feet wide and 11 feet. The plans are being shown to be existing condition and the proposed condition should be on the next slide. Each unit would be approximately 1100 square feet with three bedrooms and two bathrooms. She's XA3 shows the current front and right elevations and then the current rear and left elevations after that. The left of the post front elevation there would be a window addition and a front door. The new dormers can be seen at the third floor level on each side on a subsequent sheet. The right side of the building or the plans will show a right elevation. Our side elevation is shown to rear addition as well as that new shed dormer, a little bit farther down on the plan sheets. These are current conditions being shown. As I mentioned, there is proposed rear elevation in the back of the building. As to the zoning, there's a violation for insufficient usable open space for the two new units in an off-street parking violation. Although there are three proposed parking spaces for the three units. There's a violation cited for insufficient lot size for the additional two units and inside the violations. For front and rear setbacks, these violations, though, are existing conditions. In the violations, our triggers solely by the vertical extension are caused by the dormers. Finally, this cited rear yard setback only to the proposed rear addition. That as can be evidence on this slide, though, I would point out that there required rear setback here is 30 feet and the proposed setback, even with the new addition is kept over 31 feet by what means that it isn't back complaining, with respect to rear setback. With that, Madam Carroll-Tal, I think any questions that members may have. Thank you. Mr. Barnes, any questions from the ward? I have a question, Madam Chair. In response to the BPDAs comments, can you, Mr. Brancies, speak about any matured trees or others that will be removed by adding parking spaces? I have a real lot to ask. There is one tree in the left rear of the property, which would be the bottom right from this viewpoint. That's where the proposed parking spaces are being shown. There's an area to the left as we're viewing this sheet where the parking could be moved, which would result in no loss of that tree. That could be explored in design or due. The other issue mentioned the BPD recommendation was density in FAR. The result in FAR here is 0.99, which is fairly low, particularly since it was allowed in my code is 0.8. But as I say, that tree may be impacted, I'm not even certain that it would be, but I can certainly be looked at in design or due given the amount of space that does exist in that rear area behind the building. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Frank Mendoza here, also in Brighton, liaison, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. For the abouters meeting, for 51 Fairbanks, we can 1 attendee, no address concerned about parking. The applicant was able to answer all of their questions. The Brighton Austin Improvement Association received a presentation by this applicant. They are on the zoning chair, Anne Velagom's, on to test bias to their stance. For this proposal, we did not receive any letters of support or opposition, and at this time, we'd like to defer the judgment of the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mark Mendoza from Council of Raid and Office. The Council would like to go on back to the support of this project. Thank you. Any other elected official offices? That will go up here. Hey folks, Brighton resident. My property is driveway exit down onto Fairbanks Street. I just want to speak and support with the project. I'm happy to see some new condos coming into the neighborhood instead of those rentals. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's 9 o'clock square hour. With an entrance, our driveway is actually on Fairbanks. Yes. Annabelle? Yeah. My name is Anne Cherry and I've res dealing to buns and Ubercars, the Works and pairs of their association, and we'd like to go on record and support the project. Thank you.ardo de geme, cómo ver yaz. Would that be a time of motion? Peiroretto que los hombre profs con Vipple a la ruoux? Mr. Stone. Second. Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Here also, it's yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. We've gone past the 1130 hour. We'll ask at this point. We'll read the discussion portion. If there are any requests for withdrawals or their pearls from the from that time. Yes, Mr. Stonebridge, 10 talks in square place. So that would be case, be away. 1 3 0 4 4 3 3 with the address with 10 talks in square. Would you share to explain Mr. Anton? Yes, my name is George Moran Sam, and I'm attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair, members, we're requesting a second to burn on this matter. This is a proposal for a new four-story building with 12 dwelling units and ground floor commercial space. We've been working with both the Charlottes Town and the Wood Council in the Charlottes Town Preservation Society. And there are several concerns from both groups that we are trying to address. We would like to take the time to continue to work with the community and hopefully arrive at a project that has considerable support. Given the stage that we're in and giving the upcoming holidays, I think it would be wise to request if available a February date. Okay, Mr. Humbier. I apologize, Attorney Moran. Did you say February? Yes, I think that would be wise given the fact that we're coming up on the holidays and we're meeting with two groups. Right now, I don't have that list. And for me, I think the board is still confirming for the 2024 calendar for hearing dates. We can put on the dock in December 12th and buy that will have that confirmation for hearing dates by December. So that's fine. We'll take the 12th if we happen to conclude community process by then it can proceed. If we can't, hopefully it won't be held again. That's making it very deferral since the only fact we did look for the or the later date today. Yes. Okay. Well, without me having a motion. Motion to the furor hearing to December 12th. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Woodwell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Any further requests for the draws of the trials from the 11th, 30th, 3th discussion? Yes. With that then we move back to the 11 a.m. hearing and we will go to date beaway. 1461380 with the address of 931. We have a new. Is the advocate and will you have ever done the project? Can you raise any kind of call? Russell. Those first or. Oh. Robert. Senator. I'm you. Are you on for this proposal? Can you hear us now? Yes. Okay. Yes. We try to do the bar properly. Madam Chairman. Members of the board. My name is Russ Forsberg. I am representing the Doreshester Realty LLC, the owners of 931 High Park Avenue. Along with. Is Robert Suzy who is. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? Okay, you're in none. I'm going to ask for public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Collar Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant, the butters being was posted by our office. And the applicant went on to meet with the local civic association. I'll run away with any specific current concerns at this time. I don't have a lot of information to the personnel changes. But I believe you're here further from the Pacific Association. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan here from Collar, the Royal's Office. I would like to go back to support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Councillor Murphy's Office. The applicant are a long time residents of the area who have always given lots of community and they have worked with the community to gain more support, but go ahead and make catering and because of this, the council would like to go ahead and support. Thank you. Thank you. Just a little bit more. I think we're all set with raised hands. Thank you. Great. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion, you approve. Exactly. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Ms. Weewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Granado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Here are also votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm in the members of the board. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 140 4059. With the address of 993 to 997. I park at me. Is the applicant and would be a representative president to explain to the board? I want it. You're on when you're applicant. Can you bring to hand? Yeah, we move along and come back with them. Yes, ma'am. Chair, this side. I'll call this. I'm sorry. We can do the second call this. Okay. Thank you. Yes, keep going. With that, we move on to case B.O.A. 1406218. If you have your address of 558. R.C. Is the applicant and would they represent the president? Yes, Mr. Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Baranze. I'm an attorney within business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. This is an application to renovate the existing building at 5.58 Park Street, indoor chest or in changes. Legal occupancy from a single family to a three family dwelling with three parking spaces to the rear building. The building is located in a 3F 6,000 three family zoning sub-district. But we require a certain zoning relief going to dimensional operations. Being proposed is a very small rear addition of approximately 100 square feet to square up the back of the building. Along with a vertical extension to square up the third floor within the existing building footprint. The height of the building is not changing and will remain at 34 feet seven inches. The basement of the building will remain an unfinished basement with no living space. There will be a storage room and a common laundry for the residents. The building currently has six bedrooms. Only to the way that it's laid out. The bedroom counts in the proposed three family dwelling will not change as each unit would have two bedrooms. Currently, the first floor consists of a kitchen living room and bedroom and an enclosed front porch that will be changed to an 830 square foot unit one, containing a kitchen living room, dining room, and two bedrooms would be same enclosed front porch. Back in floor, the building currently has four bedrooms. This will be changed to an 847 square foot unit two with kitchen living room, dining room, and two bedrooms. The third floor is currently attic space, the occupied attic space with two bedrooms and some building storage. This level would be built out to gain additional square footage and would be transformed into a new 847 square foot unit again with kitchen living room, dining room, and two bedrooms. In the rear of the building, there would be a new rear porch to provide a secondary needs to be dressed from all units. There would be three parking spaces in the rear with respect to the zoning violation cited. There is a cited refusal for extension of a 19 forming use that is erroneous since both existing single family use in the most three family use allowed by zoning. It is in fact a three family zoning sub-discord. There are cited violations for insufficient lock width and frontage, which has almost me as to why this was cited for an existing building since obviously the lot is not being created and the lock width and frontage. You're not changing and it's not a new construction. Typically, there's a violation that would be cited only under construction. There's obviously nothing that can be done about the width of the lock in these violations. Again, I can probably should not have been listed. There's a violation for excessive floor area ratio. This is attributable to the fact that the attic level would be turned into a full story, which of course has square footage to the building. And there's also that very small 100 square foot condition on the ground or just where off the building. There's a cited height violation. The one that is got caused by the overall height of the building, which will remain at 34 feet seven inches. But because of the conversion, the current half story at the attic level will become a full story. And at the maximum height in this sub-discord there's 35 feet, 2 1 1 half stories. And this becomes a three story building. Finally, there is a cited violation of the side yard. The setback 10 feet is required on each side of the building. The right side of the existing building has a side setback of five feet, two inches in the area of that very small proposed addition, which is shaded and listed in blue on the plan in front of you. That very small addition being filled in there, which is approximately 15 feet by 10 feet. That creates the side yard setback violation on that right side of the building only. That'll pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Mr. Marrains. Questions from the board? Hearing none, I'm going to ask for public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Asher, we're from office and neighborhood services. I'm our office to the Golden Nozzotters meeting in many of this year. No, attendees present that day. The project also went in one of the West Washington neighborhood association. Office do not receive any concerns or there's an opposition of the project. With that, we're departing board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no institutional remains hand-side about that appointment here for somebody else. Thank you. Okay, would that may have a motion? Oh, make a motion for approval with BPD designer view with attention to building design and screening by offering of parking and to reduce imparable area. Back in. Mr. Stembridge. I know that. Mr. Stembridge, thank you. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Cheryl Stemultius, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B08, 152, 1709. The address of 14 Lloyd Street is the applicant and the way the representative present to be marked. Two raised hands here. How are you, Benjamin? So either one of you want to put this proposal. Daisy. Daisy. Oh, thank you. I knew you guys. This is essentially the architect representing the owner Mrs. Daisy Baposa. Great. Please proceed. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm at Zoning Board members. My name is Spent Friendly and my principal of Benley and architects, Montreone, Brian Lang, Westwood, Mass. Here to represent owners, Mrs. Daisy Baposa and also present 14 Lloyd Street. 1440 Street is currently a big and large of who have poor hill Avenue. It is zoned in 3,000. We have 5,000. We are proposing to have a new three family dwelling with sufficient parking. There are public transit around the corner and the use and the number of family allow cars within the 3F, 5,000 zone regulation. And as you can see on the side, there is a proposed building with the three parking at the back. We are going to keep the mature maple tree up in the front corner towards Floyd Street and the drive and the parking areas will be permeable paving. And next slide, please. I can go through the interior of the layout. The layout was very compact and very functional. In terms of the repeats from first floor, second floor to third floor, with two means of egress from front to the back. They all, the layout, they're all similar in terms of the front is decadent dining and living. And towards the rear are the three bedrooms and each of the units will have one and a half bath. And we are proposing to have a flat roof, which are similar to one of the buildings along the Floyd Street. So along the Floyd Street, they are similar in terms of fabric and building structure and two family and three families. And the exterior materials that we're proposing are going to be upward sighting and panel, which is also in line with the neighborhood. Well, there is a, in terms of some evaluation, there is several of them. The first one is the parking screening and buffering, which we are prepared to work or all to the site plan to allow that. And then the next one is the floor area ratio, which is currently is 0.97, which is allowed is 0.8. And then there is the usual open space, additional lot area, size insufficient area, or side effects, and the minimal lot insufficient. So those are the evaluation that we are seeking relief on. And with that, I'm going to conclude this presentation and answering any questions. Thank you, Mr. Lee. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Asher comes again from office and development services. Our office did hold on to what is meeting in May. Again, no attendees present of that meeting. The project did go before the wardrobe and association, which is some comments on the lot size, but office did not receive any letters of opposition or concerns directly to the project. But that would refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other way to pass please for close-up? I am sorry. I raised my hand too early the first time. I apologize. Yes, go ahead. I'm Harry Thompson, part of Franklin Field, neighborhood association. And also, I remember one, which is the Woodrow Avenue with association. I've met and heard the presentation twice. And at this present time, I'm going to be able to read the presentation at this present time. Franklin Field is opposed to the as presented for the various zoning violations. I can't speak for one, but they weren't in support of the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Any other follow-up questions from the board? Hearing none, man, have a motion. Motion to approve with BPDA design review. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. There are also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1, 4, 2, 2, 8, 4, 2, 2. With the address of 551 East 7th Street, is the applicant and the one they represent present to explain to the board? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Marranti. I'm an attorney with the business address of 551 Broadway. I've often banned chair. I'm sorry I didn't do this when deferrals were called, but I was just conferring with my client who has been reviewing the recommendation of BPDA and late of those concerns. What he would like to do is have another look at these plans. That being the case, I'd like to request a deferral on this matter. What timeline are you looking at, sir? I think whatever comes up in due course, Madam Chair. Hey, how are you? Madam Chair, could be December 5th. If that works for the applicant. Mr. Marranti? Yes, that should be adequate. Thank you. Okay, may I have a motion? Motion to the same way of 50. Second, please. Yes, second. Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Ms. Willow? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Collins? You're a mute. Sorry, I'm muted again. Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. You then. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. on 4-4-8377. Would the address of 44 Mystic Street? Is the applicant's name? Or the representative? Yes. Hello, my name is Timothy Sheehan. I'm the architect. I'm at 9 Wall Street in Charlestown. The project we have in front of the board today is an addition to a single family on an occupied residence on Mystic Street in Charlestown. What we would like to do is put an extension off the back to basically make the kitchen bigger. That would be 8 feet off the house and the full width of the house just slightly under 20 feet. We also have an existing basement. We'd like to make some habitable area down there as well. As existing now, we have 7 foot 6.5 inches, which is great. We have two good windows in the front as all the houses on Mystic Street do on that side. So we'd like to put in a bonus family room, move the wall, I should dry it downstairs and give them a 3-quarter bath. We have, during this, we'll cause three violations. We'll reduce it into the open space. We'll have a rare yard. You know, there's a 15 foot rest set back now. We'll be down at 13.6. And we're going to go currently now. The FAR meets requirements. We're going to go over to about 2.3. So max is 2232 on that lot and we'll end up at 2634. And we had a not attended neighborhood meeting two months ago. You know, nobody really showed it up once for the process. And that's it basically just a small addition off the back and some more habitable area in a basement that's not really a good ceiling. Okay. Thank you. Questions from the board? I'm Richard Sherman. I'm from the public testimony. I see Mr. Brain trying to speak. Madam, she and them is in the void shown brain with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And the blood as many was held before you for Mystic on September 19. Since that time, it's obviously received one letter in support. And none in opposition with that read the FAR judgment to the boy. Thank you. I mean, no, he's hands at the moment. Any other elected official offices? Well, I'll say. I can't wait here from the BPD on this one. I was waiting for that one, Mr. Hinton. Hopefully he would work and ask for that. You should just lay in when you know. This is one of those crazy ones where because they created some of the zoning violations, this is why we're opposed to right because they increased it. It's I know their mind. I'm Mr. Sheen and it's. You know, you're you're creating the FAR violation. You creating the rear yard violation. That's why we're opposed not because it's that you know, I'm a kitchen. I missed it. Is that a dresser question? Yes. I mean, I do feel like they should better align with the other houses on that street. Mr. Sheen, do you feel there's any opportunity to address these issues? Well, I mean, the property uphill to the right of us looking from the back is already out. 20 feet is already out. 15 feet past us. The house on the left, the downhill side on the left looking at the elevation would be eight feet past them. I don't I don't know how how how to address that, you know, without doing the addition. So there's your addition extend past the 15 feet addition that you mentioned from your neighbor? No. Yeah, I know if you look on Google or at this house, it'd be 42 that runs. It's probably 10 feet. But you can if you want to open up the site. Yeah, there is one. But I would say the bulk of that street, the additions, they have not done it similar additions. But yes, there is one example on that. Yeah, if you look up the street, I'd say seven or eight houses have L's. I've designed four of them. I know five or six of them already have L's on them. So it's not an unusual situation on both side of the district street. You know, and usually L's go about 15 or 20 feet. You know, we're just trying to go eight feet. Any other questions from the board? I know of one, Mr. Sheen, can you speak at all to sort of the call street houses? What does this relate to the depth of those houses and those lot sizes and the relationship to the rear yard setbacks, etc.? Yeah, very similar density. The pro street side, you know, the dimensions are the same from the property line to the houses. You don't see it in the plan, but we're looking at a retaining wall. Pearl streets about 15 feet higher than out lot at this point. So, you know, pro streets at the second floor level of this house. So I live on, I lived on Pearl Street for years. Most of that, I'd say 30% of the houses on Pearl Street on that on that south side also have L additions either original or later put on. And most of them are long and narrow, you know, with many zero lot setbacks. Thank you. So we're trying to save as much open space for the family. So they, you know, so they still have some open space. Thank you, Mr. Sheen. Yeah, with that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve with the previous review. Exactly. Okay. Mr. Stumberidge. Yeah. As we will. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. No. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Yes. Sure. Also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. So, mate, let's take a 15 minute break and we can. Man and chair. Yes. I think we do have that second call for. Oh, right. I'm sorry. Hi, part. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Apologies. Again, we will request. Um, case of be away. 144, 05 9 with the address of nine. Nine, nine, three, nine, 97, high park. I have. Yeah. And or they're represented as presidents. Explain to report. Yes. Yes. I'd recommend just to deny without prejudice at this point. May you have a motion? Motion and deny without prejudice. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. There are so votes. Yes. Motion carries. You all are in 15. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.