 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Okay If you introduce yourself and walk us through your project, thank you. Wonderful. Thank you so much. I'm a member of the Zenny Board of Appeals. My name is Vanessa Galeron Rosado. I am chief executive officer of IBA in Kielin, I'm Spadebasa Naxian. And thank you for giving me and my colleagues the opportunity to speak about the project at 854 Cent in the Street, which we call IBA's Casa, or Center for Arts, Self-determination and Activism. IBA is a nationally recognized community development corporation in Boston, South End. And I knew Casa will be new England's largest Latinx multi-purpose center, providing flexible and well equipped spaces necessary to advancing IBA's mission. The Casa will be home for our staff members, for our community of residents of Villaricoria, as well as for residents of the South End, to learn, to grow, to perform, and most of all together as a community. As Boston's new home for Latinx arts and community empowerment, the Casa will reinvigorate IBA's arts programs, it will expand IBA's education, social and economic mobility programs, and it will strengthen IBA's workplace and program efficiencies. This site is close to the homes of the primary beneficiaries of the project that we're proposing here today, who are over 1,100 residents of Villaricoria, which is IBA's supportable housing community in the South End. The majority of IBA's residents aren't at or less than $30,000 per year, and the completion of this project will allow us IBA to continue to expand and enhance the important programming that we have been doing for over 55 years, exactly near where our residents live, and also open great opportunities for the community of the South End, for our neighborhood, and also for our city. So I will turn it over to our development consultant, Peter Monkenbeck, who will now present regarding the legal and technical issues related to the appeal that we're presenting to you today, and also again, we'd like to request presenting capabilities for Natasha, as part of our architect of record for the project. Thank you so much, Peter. Thank you. My name is Peter Monkenbeck, but within address of 33 sparks. Mr. Monkenbeck, can you speak up? My name is Peter Monkenbeck. Thank you. We're in address of 33 sparks street in Cambridge, and I would like to just recite quickly that the application requires relief from the code for its four-story multipurpose community art center, with offices and educational space. The community center will serve the multiple uses of auditorium, theater, arts, both gallery, studio, and public display, and ticket sales. And the building will also include the offices and a professional school on the upper levels and has a low roof terrace. Some of these uses are forbidden by the zoning court in this location because it is a residential district. And some require a conditional use variance. Also, the code requires, would limit the floor area to an area which is smaller than that which we proposed. And we also do not have to, cannot need to rear yard requirements. I can go through that in more detail, but all of it is spelled out precisely in the application and happy to take any questions on that part. And I just want to say the site was for 40 years, serving almost exactly the same purposes as I just recited. It has been the community center for this neighborhood as a converting church since the 1980s. The church was taken down because it was structurally on sale. And this building is approximately the same size and scale and the same purposes. And with that, I would ask if you have promoted Natasha Espata, she would walk through the design as she is the lead architect on the project along with Anne Bail. And I'm here, Peter and Robert. Is there any way that I can present from my screen? We don't do that. OK. And I can just talk about the drawings that are up here. Thank you. OK. So the building, as Vanessa and as Peter mentioned, is a 26,400 square foot four-story building at 85 West Newton Street. It's adjacent to the O'Day Park with a higher volume, as you see here, four-story volume on West Newton Street, and a lower volume for the multipurpose room inside the block, which is what you see here on the right hand side with all of the glass. The building is terracotta, the materials are terracotta, brick, glass, and metal. The height of the main building is approximately 54 feet with the root screen elevation of 60 feet. And as Peter and Vanessa mentioned, the building program includes a multipurpose room on the first floor, a new lobby right off of West Newton Street. It also has upper levels or gallery office space for resident services as well as IBA, and meeting rooms and a roof deck over the multipurpose room in the center of the site overlooking the park as well. The building will be lead certified, and the first floor will be increased to 18 feet one for resiliency. And basically, it's all glass on the first level and on the public side, and on the private side, it is brick and more punched openings. Go quickly through the slides, Madam Ambassador. You can scroll through them and people can ask questions based on anything that they see that one asked about. Thank you. Any questions from the board? If you can please talk about the sustainability measures and also parking. So there are. I'm sorry, let me just address the parking first, which is that there is there is no parking proposed nor is any required. Great. Can you please talk about the sustainability and then in terms of it's a community center when you have large crowds, would you mitigate that in terms of over or shared ride services? With regard to access, we are as you can probably picture where we're a short portion of a block away from Tremont Street, which is multiple frequent bus service. And we also are not a fairly short walk to both orange and green line. And a majority of the people who will be using facility on a regular basis live within a very short walk of it. There will be no doubt some people will arrive as you suggest by service car service. And there will be a curb space in front of the building we will propose could be there will be reserved for pickup and drop off as well as loading and unloading of anything necessary support. And regarding the lead I can speak to that regarding the site the site has no irrigation. It will have some permeable pavers. It will have a stormwater retention system. It will also it's near the public transportation and all of that regarding the systems. It's a completely electrified building. It also has LED lighting. It has low flow plumbing. We're looking at for materials. We're looking at all of the materials be as locally resourced as possible. We're looking at the carbon footprint of the building. We're looking at the carbon of the materials. And we're looking at the it does have glass and terracotta. We're doing an energy model for all of that and we're doing commissioning as well. And we're doing a white roof at the upper level and we're doing the lower level has a right now it's just a roof deck. So we're also looking at opportunities there for any kind of plant and any kind of water. We're retaining on the site there. Trying to figure out any others. But mostly the electrified system is really important. We're not bringing any fossil fuels into the building. Through quick questions for me is Dr. Kaldegh-Marshado. Is that is he going to move your main offices to this building? That is the first question. And the second one is about the professional school. What kind of school are you proposing what kind of classes of services and for what the age of demographies are you proposing this? Sure. The building will house all of EBS programs and administrative offices except for the early education program. Which is a program for infant, top nurse and preschoolers that will be housed at 100 West End and Street. But all the other programs and functions of EBA including property management will be housed at this particular building. There's no really going to be a professional school here. I think that's a no occlusion there. But there's going to be mostly programmatic spaces where youth development program for our financial empowerment program for residents services for property management and of course for the arts programming. And so the five program areas that will be housed there in addition to that administrative offices and other administrative functions. This will allow us to also free up a building to build and work more evenly in to someone which our plan is that eventually wants this project is completed. That that building will turn into affordable housing development so we can add affordable housing to our footprint to the neighborhood. But that would be burdened down the way. Thank you. The reason that we mentioned professional school is perhaps in excess of caution but we will have classrooms. We do have after school and teenage classes that we that we run and that's it seemed appropriate to cite that since practically everything is forbidden. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? No further questions and I'll be interested to hear what the community process was. Okay with that can be open enough to public testimony. Yes. The afternoon Madam Chair members of the board came crucially with the layers of neighborhood services. The applicant went through an extensive BPD process as well as a community process met with multiple community groups. It was widely supported throughout the southern community. This would be a great addition to the community and at the summer office would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board and I call that on from council president Flink's office. The councilor would like to go on recurring support. Sorry. The councilor would like to go on recurring support. Eva has dedicated herself to empower in Boston most vulnerable citizens with high quality housing education, economic opportunities and space for artists and residents of all ages to drive. Eva will be the England's largest latings multipurpose center and will become a home for the Eva family and residents of the southern to learn, grow, perform and also vote together as a community. The councilor would like the award to take into consideration and approve this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair members of the board pass on to the city council of Latin Michael Plierty. I call on the sentiments of council president Flink Councilor like Laura Reckensprung support. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. Tom Biann and councilor Aaron Burp is office. At this time councilor Murphy would also like to go on recurring support. Thank you. Good afternoon. I have a right to see the judge from the process of councilor with the illusion. She would also like to go on support of the project. Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board. Christian Seminali, passing grant. What a trust and we have 12 key card letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. I'm sorry. Madam Chair, I'm not really done from Senator Nicole's office. He said, I'm not a chair. I'm not supporting. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. comments. Madam Chair members of the board. My new purpose represent in the carpenter's union. On behalf of hundreds of hitting carpenter's deliver work for the city of Boston. What a great support of this price. Thank you. Madam Chair, would that be a motion? Madam Chair. I want to recognize that Eva is a very important community anchor to itself as residents. I want to support this project. I would like to state that Eva continues with mitigation with its neighbor because it is in the neighborhood. That they find ways in which they are communicative throughout the construction process. Issues that deal with residents while being. And that they are, they continue to be a partner or local schools in the neighborhood. I think her early, the early school is there with that. I want to give my complete support of motion of approval. Thank you. May I have a second? I second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better Brazza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. The lead project for the community. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. This is a great, great addition to the community. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Next. Next. We have case B08. One. One. Four. Two. Two. Four. Six. The address being 79 Perkins Street. Is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. Can you introduce yourself and the project? My name is Luis Santana. Thank you, Madame Chair and members of the board. I am here on behalf of the other Mr. Christie Page. This is a conversion of the basement area into a dwelling unit for family members, specifically for his daughter and son. This particular house is located in a three-f district, which is a three-family. So there are a number of variances required. One of them is the, and actually the only significant one in my opinion will be the use itself. And the family is for bidding in this particular district. And the other variances are pretty much a standard because of the additional not area. This is slightly over 5,000 square feet long. And the office is part of the requirements and for more area ratio. But the basement unit, and actually just for your information, as you will be able to see on the elevations, a large portion of the perimeter of this unit is above grade. It's still considered a basement, you know, is significantly above grade compared to other structures. The unit will consist of two bedrooms. You will have adequate misofigures. We have added multiple windows to comply with the core requirements for emergency-skate agreements from those bedrooms. And also to provide adequate light ventilation for the unit. This, Mr. Page, has been already in multiple locations in front of the JP Association seeking approval for the project. There are in this area, there are multiple, there is a variety of uses. Why within this block? There are multiple three families. And the next block, you will have a high price. There are five and multiple storage buildings in the vicinity. Across the street, you have predominantly one and two family dwellings. And to the left and to the right, there are generally multi-family dwellings. I would like to point out, and this is significant because I believe it's one of the variances in which some opposition has been expressed from some members of the community, is the parking area. This is an 80-foot driveway, almost in length. It goes across the entire length of the lot. And we could provide adequate parking in terms of the numbers, as shown on this diagram. This architectural cycle shows that there are five cars, only four required per code. Now, that being said, if we position these vehicles one behind the other, and we will comply with the novel of spaces required, that would trigger a different violation which is parking in front of the art. So that's why we opt to go along with the sufficient of street parking. But there is sufficient spaces to accommodate the public. The other thing that I want to point out is that we have the criteria. Mr. Page has gotten approval. We have at least 50 letters of support from the community. There is also the three square community group that has received Mr. Page. In addition, he's a long-term resident of Jamaica Plano for 20 years. That being said, his home, his residence is two houses down that same street, 69 parking streets. So in my opinion, all the criteria for various other items are met. This would not be detrimental to the neighborhood. That's open to board questions. Any questions from the board? If you have any. Any questions? No questions? If I may not have chair with your permission, I would like also to allow Mr. Page to present the speaker on behalf. So he can explain the research. Why is this necessary to extend the limit of space? Sure, Mr. Page. Is Mr. Page the panelist? Yes. And you hear me? Yes, we can. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Christopher Page. I live at 67 parking streets and I also own the home at 79 parking streets. Several years ago, both my kids came to me and asked if I had any room at the house. Which I didn't. I have long-term tenants at my own home. And my kids know the house that I own next door, two doors away. And they said, well, what about your basement next door? And I said, well, I don't know if I could do that, but I could give it a try. So for the last three years, I've been back and forth with local community groups. And I'm at this stage now with you guys. So I'd like to keep my kids living and working in the city. They both work in the city, one as a carpenter. And the other is a psychologist helping with drug reform, with one of the organizations in the city of Austin. So they'd like to stay in the city, and I'd like to have them close to me as I get older. So it makes a lot of sense, but obviously it's out of my hands and it's up to you guys to vote on it. So appreciate your time and your help. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you, sir. With that, Matt, open it up to public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, call on anyone with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board. To back information in the community process. And a butter's meeting was facilitated by our office on February 16th of this year. A throughout the community process, the proponent and their team acquired support from elected officials, as well as many direct butters. And or community members. Our office currently has six letters of support. And to an opposition from the JPA, as well as the JPMC, the zoning committee. At this time, our mayor's office would like to defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Any other questions? Yes, Madam Chair, I have. Lynn, you've been unmuted. If you can stay good, amen. I'll just for the record, please. Lynn. I'm sorry. She wanted to speak and support of the project. Any other reasons? No. I want to just begin to forward the project of to make a plain NDC. Not this one. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Okay. Was that sorry about that? That's okay. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve with the APS anchor view. We have a second. It's fine. May I? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betta-Braso. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wou. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lainon. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Page. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. In the next two cases are companion cases. First being the OA 1435582 with the address of 110 to 118 terrorist street. With that is the OA 143657 with the same address of 110 to 118 terrorist street. And these are both OA 18. And these are both OA 18. Putt. Mr. Ross available. Yes. Hello, Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is turning Mike Ross from the law firm in Prince L. Bell. Good afternoon. I'm here with the architect Nick Alton. And also being there is also building code. Madam Chair, we have code consultant. Doug Anderson with us. And I was just going to see just if I had a question. And I was just going to suggest that I could, Madam Chair, it might be better to have me go through and familiarize the board with the underlying zoning projects so that you can then when you get to the building code will make more sense. But it's obviously your call. I think you could just briefly walk us through what you need to please please please proceed. Okay. Thank you so much. So this is an article 80 large project review. It was approved by the BPD on November 17th, 2022. It's a 79 unit 32 parking space. Retail space mixed use. Building that ranges from four to six floors. Across it. And what you have here is the existing condition photos. And what we have within the existing conditions is an auto body shop and three pretty run down residential buildings. Two or three families and one is a one family for a total of seven units. I would just point out here that the MBTA Orange Line runs directly behind the proposed project. And is our abutting property owner, the MBTA land and the MBTA right of way in the tracks. Next slide please. This is just a plot plan here that it shows that the red bubbles here show cornices and balconies that overhang onto the public way, including those that are on the back there, you know, on the over the MBTA property. But significant here is the sidewalk, which was pulled back. Terror Street for those who now mentioned Hill is a very narrow sidewalk. It's about eight and a half feet. I'm sorry, it's about six feet wide today. This project is going to make it now and date in a half foot sidewalk. And that will allow us to plant trees. There are nine new trees that will now be street trees on this project and to allow for complete street, complete sidewalk accessibility. So full passage and the street trees and lots of accessibility now by needing a two feet of, or by a providing easement, if you will, of two feet to the sidewalk. We're also where that triangular cutout you see there going to place a blue bikes station completely on our properties. So people from all over the neighborhood, including the project, will be able to access those blue bikes. Next slide please. So this slide here shows the 32 parking spaces are, you know, below ground under the building. It shows the loading zone on the corner, rear corner of the building. It shows the blue bike station in position. It shows the vehicle entrance there on the right most corner of the building to access the underground garage. In the rear it shows a proposed emergency easement for fire access to allow for emergency access along there. Next slide please. So this slide is the, you guys are rendering up the, the, the, the, the, a rendering it shows you side elevation and it shows the rear elevation at the bottom. The red there's and then dug the initial get into the little bit, but the red signifies is why we've recited for building the code. Anytime you have wind up on a property line, it creates a building code violation. In this case, the property line of butts, the orange line right of way. And so, you know, enough things ever going to get built there, but it doesn't matter what we still get cited for the building code. That's why we're bringing this to you. As you know, the CBA has the ability to make both decisions. Next slide please. So this slide just is, you know, more detailed basement floor plan. Lots of bicycle parking. You'll see there's 80 interior spaces, 16 exterior post spaces. But then there's also that blue bike station that I mentioned earlier. Next slide please. And this is now we're just starting the floor plans. This is the first floor plan. I'll just point out to you in the corner on the corner of Cedar and Terrace Street. That's 1834 square feet of ground floor retail that will be made available as well. And the next slide it starts to build the floor plans. It's probably a good time for me to tell you what we have for the units in the building. There are nine micro units. So those micro units are those small units that require separate common space elsewhere in the building. So we have another almost 4,000 square feet of common space that I'll show you as we get around. Those micro units are 350 square feet plus or minus. There are two studios in this entire project of 79 units. Those are around 480 square feet. There are 24 one bedrooms that are around 662. There are 37 two bedroom and nine of those 37 bedrooms are duplexes and those range from 891 square feet to 941 square feet. And then finally there are seven three bedroom units and those are and four of those are duplexes. And they range from 1156 to 1359. 1359. So the next slide is going to kind of build these these floor plans. Slide nine, slide 10 kind of shows you. At slide 11, the next slide you'll start to see how the building itself tapers. One more slide, Mountain Besser. One more slide. So here you'll see how the building, one more the other way. Yeah, there you go. You'll see how the building itself tapers just in that that L common deck that's on the right. And then on the left there's another deck that faces the city of Boston. So that that's kind of giving you a sense of how the building starts to tapers against the top. And then if you get to the next slide, which would be the sixth floor. And here you'll see those tops of those duplex units I talked to you about as well as the upper mezzanine of the community room. And some of that outdoor space is dedicated towards the contribution towards the micro units as well. You go to the next slide. We'll show you just the roof plan, but it's a good place to just kind of point out that we have a photo with tail panels. This is a legal certifiable project that we are pursuing pass and house standards. And that these are. The next slide. We'll show you just the rendering of building and one of the sides and also the front elevation. We have a better rendering coming. So I'll go to the next slide, which shows you kind of the inverse. If you go to the next slide, it shows you the rear rendering of the building, the other side of this building, and the back of the building. And then the next slide. Shows you a section. Of the building. The next slide is also a section, but I'd point out that it kind of here we show that there's a separate kind of access corridor that we're providing to the MBTA. For future maintenance of the existing block granite wall that is presently on the site. So if they have to maintain that wall or get in there for any reason, we're basically providing them a little corridor that they can always use to access that wall. So that's something that they requested. The next slide, please. Both slides 18 and 19. We have a blow up on 19 of the zoning relief we're seeking so I can just quickly walk you through that. So the use this isn't a local industrial district is a mission hill neighborhood zoning district. So as a local industrial multifamily housing is a is a forbidden use. There's no use of barriers for that. Any retail that's over a thousand square feet, ours is over a 1800 square feet requires a conditional use permit. So we were cited for that. FAR for this area of the city is 2.0 and we're at 4.685, which is actually similar to other projects that are appearing on terrors street. The building height for this area is 40 feet and we are seeking a 69 11 foot building, which again has similarities to some of the other buildings on the streets that are recently developed. The usable open space was cited, but we have more than exceeded the usable open space. So it shouldn't have been cited. We're at 6000 and it requires 3950 and the rear yard was cited correctly. As I mentioned, we're directly on that rear yard along the mpta. And you're part of the pulling back of the building and creating the larger sidewalk led to how we also got right on the property line as well, which is a good segue. If you want Madam Chair for Doug Anderson, who's our co-insulted to explain the building code part of this, if that's okay with you. Yes, thank you. Okay, thank you so much. Doug, are you there? Yes, I am. Thank you, Michael. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. As you can see, it's a fairly novel lot when you're in terrors street. So to get a building designed like a typical apartment, and with central corridor with units on each side, there really kind of wasn't a whole lot of choice other than to go back to the rear property line as Michael had said. The issues introduced by the building code as cited by ISD are two. One is that those particular will on the mbta property line face a the southwest quarter, of course, as was mentioned, but they also face towards the south. And so it's the sunny side of the building. And the fire department access that Michael spoke of earlier is a ten foot be paved stripped, not for fire truck access, but for fire fire access. I understand discussions have been held with fire department and they're totally okay with it. And intent is to seek and access access arrangement with the mbta, who allow them allow fire, you know, a lot of fire department to use that paved area to soon to be paved area for fire fire activities that they need. And the lock will be provided with a key that the fire department typically carries with them. So it's something unusual. There's a number of these. It seems along the southwest corridor. The windows on the lobline, of course, are required by the mandatory code in the building code. We can go to the rear elevation of the building. There was towards one of the latest long, actually in the top left corner. Side exit. If we could zoom in on that, it's going. That's the one that you want. Okay, that one right there. So as was mentioned, there's a three foot thick green block wall that is owned by the mbta. It probably dates back to 1800s when the right away was first built for the railroads. And so the ten foot paved. Portion. It's the equivalent of a public way of 13 feet of width. And a public way is to find. And in the building code is a street alley or other parcel of land open to the outside air leading to a street that has been de-dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public. And even though this is not open to the public, it is owned by the mbta. So we have certainly meeting the intent of a public way. Under the provisions of the building. And if we measure the fire separation distance from the face of the building to the center of the effect of public way, six and a half feet, which allows 25% openings per story. And that is exactly what we're providing. So we are certainly meeting the intent of the building code. There's no hazard presented or spread of fire to adjacent buildings because there aren't any adjacent buildings on this and be. It's a buffer of sorts between the the trench that is the southwest quarter and the buildings along the right of way. The second. Could I just open it up to questions from the board as well just to see if they have any. So we can keep going forward. Any questions from the board? I have a kind of a practicality question in regards to. If there is a potential fire, how are they going to be access to fire trucks to the rear of the building? The build the fire code requires. That a fire truck only get within 50 feet of a building entrance. And all locations around the perimeter of a building have to be within 250 feet of travel. And so this building is 40 feet in length, which is why this. Access is required not required for a fire truck, but it is required for firefighter access for regular operations. So that is what is in the state fire code that was adopted under December 22nd. And that's what we're meeting. I'm sorry. Yeah, so you meet the left in terms of bringing fire hose. What about to the top of the building? Well, that would be that would be operations from inside. I would. Okay, but you do meet the less than 100 feet left. Right. You said it's less than 250. Yeah, we're under 250. Yeah. Yeah, and we're certainly within 50 feet of an entrance, not all entrances, but an entrance into the building. And I believe in it. Correct me. I think are we putting up a host connection at the corn? We are. My name is Nick Alton from Westwood Architects, where the architecture of the project. There is an entrance within there is an entrance within 20 feet. Can we keep that that there is a main entrance as you've seen, but there is an entrance just next to loading dock into this building, which is a. A common and public entrance. We are putting in a new fire hyven right at that access point. We are putting in a gate that meets the MBTA requirements. We are providing a. As Doug mentioned, a 10 foot access agreement area that will be paved and maintained by the developer. And we met with the fire commissioner. And they have reviewed this and they have indicated that the length of this building is 223 feet long and the limit is 250. They have felt that they can use their boom trucks at that length to fight to do the exterior fighting above ground. And that they're only seeking an access agreement for. For human personality to be able to walk on to that side. Any other questions from the board? Madam, do we receive any BPD a review? I'm in the nation. No, okay. Has the applicant been undergoing BPD a design review? Madam, chair, we went through an extent and Mr. Beverly Ross, we went through an extensive community process through the BPD a large product review process. With an approval by their board in November. The thing I didn't mention to you earlier to remind me of is that this also has an 18% IDP component attached to it as well for affordable housing. 70%. 17.7. 17.7. Sorry, approximately 18%. They're fair. 17.7% IDP. Right. I was supported by the Mission Hill Neighborhood Housing Services, you know, CDC, which is the long standing affordable housing group in Mission Hill. We have a letter. Do we have that letter? Yes. Any other questions? Yes, sir. What do you lose by bringing in the rare elevation by three feet in terms of your internal units? If I may, I can respond to that. Right now, we are at the typical width. There were at 56 feet. So, frankly, losing three feet would be fairly critical for the whole design of the building. And we would lose a considerable amount. The normal preferred amount with a double load of car to like this is 60 feet. And we already, as Michael mentioned before, we have a six foot sidewalk on the other side and we came back to an half feet on that side. So, this candidly would be fairly critical for the operation of the building. And the MBTA has indicated a willingness. We were just in the process of, frankly, it's a financial issue of doing negotiations on this. We met with them four times. So, they're not against this idea. And there are precedents of other buildings on the spot having similar arrangements. They're decent on the property line? Yes, they sit on the property line. Yep. Okay. No further questions. In fact, they bridge over the stone wall. They're older buildings, but they were renovated housing about eight years ago. The fiscal factory, which is just down the street. A quick question, Ma'am, share. Is the rose, is the MBTA asking you for your project to do anything with the trees on the MBTA? Is meant or not? Can I move the trees or plant new trees? Can I jump into that? Good thing. So, part of the negotiation that seems to be ongoing is that the MBTA does want us to do some overall clearing and replanting of portions of this, because right now, somewhat the way it's represented in this image, it's just wild back there. I mean, it's difficult to navigate through there. And that is part of what they're doing in the negotiation to ask that there be some clearing and replanting in a way that, because there's a huge number of little ant, this guy like, like, a little ant that's grown back there that is, you can't, it's very difficult to even walk through it. This is a maintenance area, and right now they're finding, and what they like to do is to store certain materials there that they're doing in the ongoing maintenance, and they cannot do it. Whereas on the north side, which is the other side of the peristreet, they have cleared it out, and they are able to do maintenance and store materials there, and they do have a gate similar to what we're proposing. So they are actually interested in anxious to get this to work in that way for them. So just a recommendation for you and your team to invite your state senator and state representative to a conversation with the MBTA to ensure that there is consistency on the management for the trees along the same, the orange line corridor to ensure that there is sustainability and there are more trees planted than the trees that are removed. You can do that Mr. Blitz, we are still in conversation for the MBTA, so we will raise that up. One final point for you all, so we would like to grab to the house and make up the affordable housing. Here's a very extensive agreement between the proponent and the mission home, the housing services. As you know, mission hall has many student housing concerns about places that become kind of de facto dormitories. So it was important to the community that this wasn't just going to be some sort of student housing and all the other units of the 82%, 83% that were there. So they entered into an agreement that has auditing and has counts and has all sorts of benchmarks with mission home neighborhood housing services to make sure that that doesn't happen. I just want to make sure I point that out. Thank you. Now, Chair, there is the second building code issue that we need to address. And that is a section and 30 to 32, which has to do with projections over a public way. If you can see on this, we are elevation there are some shades a little larger windows that will allow some way to stream indirectly in the wintertime and in the summertime. I imagine this is going to be overwhelming. The efficiency design behind the reason those are there, but certainly not my area of expertise. But they do project over the property line and the citation that I was to noted was project public way. Technically, the building code does not address projections over property line, but that being said, if we look at this as a now goes to a public way. It would be it would be allowed over I think over 15 feet. A lot of projection as noted, this is this walkway is used only for firefighters on foot. It is not used for vehicle traffic whatsoever. And the the lowest shake is 12 feet, the 13 feet above the wall, being houses well above the 15 feet. And that being the magic number above which there's no limitation to projections over public way. So again, we're certainly meeting the intent of the code. If not exactly the way I'm going to buy it, having these sun shades project over the property line. Thank you. May I interject in here? I'm sorry again, it's Nick Elton, the architect on the project. The sun shades are critical for the summer overheating. But obviously we are projecting over in a butter's property. So in the access agreement that we are working on with the MBTA, they have also indicated a task of agreement to allowing us to do this because it doesn't project beyond their existing stone wall that separates the two properties, which is three foot thick. And there that is part of the legal arrangement that's currently being negotiated and is expected. But if for some reason that portion of it were not successful, we will eliminate it. But I think it would hurt the performance reference to air conditioning use during the summer. All right, thank you. Would that may have public testimony? Yes, hello Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Maggie Van Scoy from the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. This project went through a thorough article 80 community process with the BPDA. During that process our office was made aware of comments and support of the project from people in the area believing it was a good project in design. We are aware of a few comments stated worried about this building being too large and too dense for the area. We have mentioned the Mission Hill Neighborhood Housing Services issued a letter of support in support of this project. And with that we'd like to defer the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yeah, Anthony Buyers, Council Box Office. Anthony? Hello, can you hear me? Yes we can. I'm Anthony, the Mission Hill heated on for Council Box and she just wanted me to read a quick comment on the proposal. Tara Street is transitioning from a light industrial use to a next residential commercial district. Projects like this proposal are contributing to that change to a more complete street. I am pleased to see this proposal go above and beyond the IDP requirements to provide much needed of additional affordable housing. They have worked with the community to ensure long-term tenants occupy these units and of course have contributed to the transportation study of Tara Street. For these reasons Council Box would urge the board to approve the proposal before them. Thank you. Thank you. All right Madam Chair, I do have that on. Madam, you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and address for the work with please. And Far Bob, Mission Hill resident 9R Vol. 3. Board member of Mission Hill member housing services. As everyone has pointed out our board is the minute letter of support on April 10th pointing out that the 17.7% affordable in the building as well as the signed MLA with the board that does restrict the number of under that resident students in the project. And a contribution to the Tara Street transportation study as everyone has pointed out the Tara Street is a very narrow street undergoing graphic development at the time. Also wanted to point out that while we are rental units, we are in support of the developer seen through last month with 47 homeownership units on Tara Street that also have a affordable component of that as well. So with all that that we are on record support. Thank you. And mine are. Thank you. And I'm sure we must have the board mine up right now present in the carpenters union on behalf of Congress of Union Carpenters and the new and world policy to post them when it will support this right. Thank you. No additional. Would that be a motion. I make a motion to approve the project. We have a second back in. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Madam Chair. Yes. Sorry, the sense of wrapped. I do have a car that just came in. I'm sorry. Yeah. Mr. Can I ask you over your Mr. Shepherd? No, you did that. Sorry. The chair also wants yes, the motion carries. Madam Chair, the motion is just to approve the project, but do we need to do a motion for building co-relief? Yes. That was my question. Because that is different. That's two different motions. It be clear to separate motion. Yeah. Yeah. Question go for. Go for it. So. Madam Chair. I make a motion to not give a building code relief. For the project, it has to be worked out with BPD. So just for that motion. Okay. So there's for it. There's two building co-relief requests. One was for the projection and the other one was for the rear. We're windows not being on the property line. Madam Chair, there. If I could just discuss that motion for a second. Go ahead. Just very briefly. This will be worked out with the BPD. This will require us to go to the state. And we are obviously that would be our only recourse, but it would take months to do that. Now, if we did do that, we would certainly not want to appear with a negative kind of vote from the board. You know, if that's an option to know if you're going to deny it. I would ask you don't deny it. Just maybe we would draw it or something, but I would hope that you would consider passing it. So we don't have to delay the project by an additional three months. Well, that's that is Beverly. That's your motion. Do you have any additional thoughts on it? This is a zoning board. I we don't have the recommendation at all, even if the BPD. I was not submitted to us. So I do think it's a great project. So on those grounds, I was in agreement with the board. But in terms of a zoning board providing relief for the two that were in front of us, I would maintain my motion. That there's no being vote released. Madam Chair, may I speak very briefly? Yes. It is the city of Boston board of appeal. It is not limited to just zoning cases. The board of appeals authority to grant building code relief predates by decades the implementation of a statewide building code in 95. I've had many projects. So I've had to dive into the 1944 building code in 1921 building a lot of try reverse engineer stuff. This board has always had the authority to grant relief of the building code at the time. And that got transferred over to the board city of Boston board of appeal. But when the state building code became effective in 1975. So the board certainly has the authority to grant building code relief. We came to this board for this because we felt that the building code issues introduced do not. And any life safety hazards whatsoever to the occupants of the building, nor to any of others because there's no other virus. All of our trees. And it's an MBTA right away that's been in existence for probably over 150 years. So nothing's going to be built on that piece of property. They may store everybody again. It's a good distance away from the building. So it's no life safety hazard whatsoever to occupants of this building by allowing those openings. Thank you. Well, I have a motion. So either there's a second or there's not. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. No. Ms. Wewell. No. Mr. Valencia. No. Mr. Langham. Yes. The chair also votes no. The motion does not carry. Okay. How be it? Do we need an alternate motion? Yeah, Madam Chair. If you would like to put another motion for a do you want? You may do so. It could be a straight denial of that specific motion. For no go. Those are our options. Yes. Since the motion did not carry for that specific one. I think the motion was too deny. So I think we would be making a motion to approve or grant the building code relief. Is that right? Yeah, that's what I'm asking. I've come here. Is that what an alternate motion? Yes. Okay. So anyone want to put forth a new motion? We'll make the motion to approve or grant the building code relief for the reason stated by the applicant. Abutting the MBTA right of way. Do I have the second? Third. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bedapuraza. No. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Relencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, at this time I'll go to the 1 p.m. hearings and ask if there are any requirements. All right. Hearing none. Let's keep them on. Hearing none. We move on to. We move on to 2028. Thank you. Thank you. Please be aware. We move on to 2028. The motion carries. Madam Chair, I have to refuse myself from this case. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. You have to recommend a administrative crew or an offer. I'm demonstrating for all of the request I thought administrative was only if it was 5. It is not a full member board. Okay. Does the applicant want to take an administrative deferral? Thank you. Madam Chair, but we would like to proceed. Please do. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. backup plough out there and I'm the director of real estate for the Jamaica Plain neighborhood development corporation. Next slide please. As some of you may know, the Jamaica Plain NDC is a community development corporation. We were rooted in Jamaica Plain but work across the city in Jamaica Plain, Roxbury and Dorchester. And we create affordable housing such as this project. We have academic prosperity services that help people build on their strengths, start egg roast small businesses, support family, childcare providers and it looks like our architect is looking for access. And work with building contractors of color and we also do community organizing. Our mission is to transform the lives and amplify the voices of Boston residents who have been excluded from prosperity by an inequitable economic system. Next slide please. 2028 Cheney Street is an affordable home ownership project so it advances and has come out of an extensive community process. It reflects our values of community engagement, extensive input from neighbors, the creation of affordable housing and home ownership in particular to respect and reflect the desires of the immediate community and provide opportunities for people, families to build their prosperity. 2028 Cheney is part of three sites the JPMDC acquired a little more than four years ago. Three Skylar Street is a six unit affordable housing home ownership project that receives zoning relief last year or actually late in 2021. And this site and the one adjacent to it for 18 Cheney which will be 48 units of senior rental housing received relief in an earlier incarnation of this project in March of 2022. We received approval from the ZDA but following that approval had significant input from neighbors who requested that we change the design. The rental project we reduced the number of units and came back for relief through the board final arbiter process several months ago. This project we had thought we could go through board final arbiter but there were some changes made at the request of the Garrison Trotter Neighborhood Association of Project Right and the city's the mayor's office of housing regarding location of parking which then created the need for a couple of additional variances which is why we're here before you with a full appeal application. So our site will create six units of affordable home ownership previous side please. This does reflect 25 community meetings we've had. Yes, thank you for moving on. Appreciate it. The next chart will show the changes since our last approval. Number one for one parking it had been located previously under the adjacent rental building and is now on site that has pushed the building forward and necessitated a couple of additional variances. We've located the parking entrance on heart well as opposed to chain eight and we reduced the number of units from nine units to six units. As you can see at the chart the bottom we've basically reduced the density and in most cases reduced the zoning relief we are requesting. Next slide and I will turn it over to our Andres. Are you on and able to talk? Yes, I'm super. Okay. Okay. I'll turn it over. Excellent. Good afternoon members of the board. My name is Andres Bernal. I am an architect with JGE. When you see in this slide is the site line as it stands right now. See chainy gone left to right on top of the chainy street and then heart well street top to bottom on the left of the slide. This the main difference from this proposal to the previous proposal if you can stay on that slide is there are two main differences. One is that the building volume moved towards chainy street and two is that the two the six parking spaces that Rebecca mentioned are now located in the back of the building. As for the convention also we have six units in this proposal. Two of those units are flat and our access from chain to flat units. These are accessible units that have also access to the accessable parking spaces in the back. The remainder four units are access from the two other entries and our group like units. Your residents would enter go up and access the units of the second and third floor. Next slide please. Well together we have eight violations for what you see here on the screen are six that we have been previously granted in the previous proposal. And if you go to the next slide we see the two additional we leave that we are requesting here. One is the traffic visibility across corner. This one is a part of moving the building towards chainy street which was again a request from the community. And then the second one from your insufficient which we had actually been requested that previously to now it's more mentioning on the front yard that the two existing buildings that are on chainy street are right on the property line so that will give us essentially a zero model. However we did not provide the calculations in our submission to ISD. And I think with that that puts it's our presentation. Thank you. Are there any questions from board? Here I'm sorry. Go ahead. Okay. May I have public testimony? Yes. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. Keisha Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And a butters meeting was held and after working with community wants and needs the applicants were able to receive honor and to nearby end of our butters where those residents provide signatures of support. They met with Garrison Trotter and Project Wright. They came to an agreement to reduce the amount of units for community support as long as increased the affordable home ownership aspect. Project Wright has submitted a letter of support and want continued community engagement with any impacts to a butters during construction and just overall continued community engagement. And at this time we would like to defer judgment to the board. Frances, you want to be going? Yes. Lynn, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address with a record please. Lynn Wimbled. Although I live in Millet, I have been the property manager. I've been the property manager at the Melmer Maple Skyler apartment for more than 20 years. Is somebody else talking? Please, please, Chris, I'm sorry. I was confused. I'm technologically impaired. I'm sorry. And I've been involved with the Jamaica plane NDC for nearly 40 years now. I've been to many of the 25 public meetings that have been held. And I'm very much in support of this project. There are so many elderly people that need help. And my main focus was obviously on the elderly project, the larger project. But I think that the JPN DC has been over backwards to reduce the number of units in the Janie Street, come ownership program and to add parking because the main issues that people have had work, density and parking. And I think that they have done an excellent job of pulling it all together to come to a plan that everybody seems to be happy with. Thank you. Special services. My name is Lorraine Payne-Willard. Hi, Aaron. Can I actually give you a call back? I'm covered in ZBA. I'm sorry. Sorry. My name is Lorraine Payne-Willard. I'm representing City Councilor Tanya Anderson. Tanya gives her support to this project because it's adding home ownership to an area that really needs affordable opportunities for residents. And so she gives her enthusiastic support to this project. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Solvins, City Councilor Locke, Michael Flaherty, does the real record support. Samantha, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. Hi, Samantha Matano, I'm the state rep for the 15th Suffolk, and I'm just going on record as in support of this project. Thank you. Roy Thompson, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. Hi, I'm Roy Thompson. I have been 14 Womback Street. I'm the Chair of the Housing Committee for the Guadalupe Plant Neighborhood Association. We've attended several meetings with JP NDC, and they've accommodated some input from the butter in the neighborhood, essentially. We'd love to have more affordable ownership units, but because Cheney Street is a very narrow one-way street in the neighborhood, it had to be reduced to six, but this site brings six affordable purchase units to the neighborhood, which is very important, and the on-site parking is important as well. Anyone who may with Cheney Street knows that it is very dense and in almost no-one street parking available, so it was important for the butter in the neighborhood association to have the dig in the street. Right side of the development should be accommodating of the current situation in the neighborhood. We are in support and appreciate JP NDC working with the very neighborhood associations that need a butter and a neighbor's or living in the community, so we're in support. Thank you. Can folks build on what other folks say and add something new, please? Thank you. Francis. Lorraine? You already went. Okay. Stay low again. Yeah, all the attendees have gone. So, minor, Cindy? Yes. Hello. I'm here. I'm in the middle of the board. Cindy, do you want to come up with a council member to do a chat? So, we would like to vote on support of the project. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Boyd. Thanks so much, Solida Boyd. I live at Four Nazing Court in Goalfall about a five-minute walk from the Cheney Street address. I come here today in support of the project. I feel like the Nazing Court's relationship with JP NDC goes back actually 20 years this month when organizers from JP NDC, student solidarity with folks are amazing court to preserve our affordability. And so, I am happy to support this project 20 years later where the NDC is bringing even more affordability to Goalfall, which is greatly needed for folks who want to remain there as homeowners and folks who are reaching retirement age like myself who want to make sure that we have an opportunity to stay in our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board of mine, I'm for us representing the Cardiff and the receiving of the Goalfall over Boston, RACID as one and four and I want to say to Raveca and for team at JP NDC for great community outreach. Okay. How many more raise hands do we have? I think we get the idea. Good afternoon. My name is Tierra Sashel and I'm a housing development officer with the mayor's office of housing and I just want to say I go with everybody's size and say that this project has full and will each support. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom and your councilor Murky's office, councilor Murky wants to go on record in support as well. Thank you. Okay. Would that have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review and I just want to also comment that the Hunter and 49 plus layers of support was commendable. Agreed. May I have a second? Sorry to. Mr. Staggart. Yes. Mr. Brasin. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Vowel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Lange. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Lange. Mr. Lange. Yes. Mr. Lange. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Madam Chair, I will choose myself on the next project. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. So the next project is case number, case number, VOA, 143, 3779, with the address of 800 William T. Mr. R. S. Polovar, which is also an article 80 project. Is the applicant for the representative president? Yes. I'm good afternoon. Thank you. Clerk's emberage and Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Matt Lawler with the Law of the Romance and Coal, business address of one Boston place. Boston 02108, speaking on behalf of the applicant. I'm also joined by Jeff Lewis and Jay Russo from the project developer and board. Just two Michaels as well as the project architect, Ryan O'Connor from Q3 and Emily Anderson from Boulder who are the project engineers. Very briefly described and shown on the plans. It's appeal relates to the property located at 800 Marisi Boulevard in Dorchester. The developers were posting a demolish the existing hotel building and replace it with a new building of just under 200,000 square feet and gross floor area. With 229 residential apartments. Following a lengthy public review process that started in July of 2021. The BCDC voted to grant approval on November 1st, 2022. In the BPD-8 board granted article 80B, large project review approval at its meeting in December 15th, 2022. And then voted to recommend approval of this request, resulting relief at its meeting last month on March 16th, 2023. So at this point, I think you can leave the slides there. I'll have Brian O'Connor from Q3 review the projects design program. And then he'll turn it back to me at the end to review the zoning relief that's being requested, pursuant to the appeal. So, Ryan, you are welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. If you can move to the next slide. I'm going to walk you through very quickly some of the building plans here. We're looking at the ground floor plan to orient everyone. The route 93 is running horizontally across the top of the page. And Morrissey Boulevard is right along the bottom. At the ground floor of this building, we've spent quite a bit of time paying attention to the different edges and public rail. Along the bottom edge of the building plans, we have a large amenity space that fronts on Morrissey Boulevard with the main entry on the right hand side. On the left hand edge, we share a very interesting path with 780 Morrissey. Jason that allows both bikes and pedestrians to access. So, walkway along the top edge of the page south of 93. Along this pathway, we've located both bike lounge, bike storage and units. And then we have about 154 parking spaces in the garage itself in the deck with 88 and stackers. On the next slide, we're moving up to the level above this. We have a large amenity courtyard with southern exposure in the center of the building, framed by residential units all the way around, as well as an amenity space on the backside of the leg of Jason tomorrow. On the next, you can also see on the left hand edge of this slide, a fairly large step back deck position, fronting on that connector pathway for the units at this level. As we move up to the next level, you can see typical floors three through five on the next slide. And again, this project is a mix of studios one, two, and three bed with a total of 229 units. And the next slide, you can see the skyline, which happens in the upper left corner facing both the water and north towards Boston, with the use of the skyline here. You can also see the lower leg of the building is roof now in the six floor plan as we have a five story volume against Marsy. And the next slide, the elevations, the top elevation here is actually the elevation that runs along the route 93 head. So the large sort of blank area on the lower left has been reserved for artists and we're going to be proposing a very significant heart wall there at Jason to the public walking path. On the right hand side, you can see the deck areas and the sort of step back of the building adjacent to the path, the lower elevation is actually fronting on Marsy Boulevard. Here, you can see that lower leg to the front is five stories with the balance of the building being six on the next page. We have the two side elevations, the top elevation on the next page is adjacent to the bike path. Here, you can see that long continuous deck area with unit balconies above the first floor, the two lower units bike storage and bike lounge areas on either ends of this elevation. The bottom elevation actually shows the main entry and the lower left, you can see the lower volume against Marsy Boulevard. You can also see the primary garage entry here. The next slide, the next two slides are actually a series of perspectives. The first is a view across Marsy Boulevard. So route 93 is on the opposite side. Here, you can see that the very active brown floor, very public transparent space, two very simple, very clean building volumes. And again, we have a five and a six story splits between this building building volumes to the left is the recently approved and under construction seven 80 Marcy building. In the next view, we're looking from the route 93 side down the corner between these two buildings, which is really a multimodal mixed use path connecting to the MBTA path that runs along the edge of the highway. Here, you can see that deck area that I was talking about large glass areas transparent bike lounge and direct access as well as a very well developed path network between these buildings connecting also to the bike lounge at the lower level on the adjacent. A lot of the adjacent upon and project on the right hand side and then I think the next slide we're going to go back to Mr. Walton. Great. Yes. If you get advanced, yeah, that's great. So just to review the zoning relief, the property is located in the community commercial sub district of the George tester neighborhood district. That was adopted by article 65 of the zoning code and as identified it in the notice, the proposed project requires zoning relief and a couple of kinds, a couple of conditional use permits and then some dimensional variances. So as far as the conditional use permits go, it's with respect to the location of the property and green belt protection overlay district. That's related to Marcy Boulevard and then the multifamily residential use here is a conditional use in the community commercial sub district. The project also requires dimensional variances with respect to floor area ratio as noted on the table. It's 2.24 as opposed to the 2.0 limit. The building height here is 70 feet as opposed to the 45 foot limit. The minimum rear setback is 12 feet as opposed to 20 feet. So those are sort of the straight dimensional variances. Then we had a couple of variances with respect to parking that's I think fall into the sense for the categories dimensional with respect to the use of stackers in this building that was cited as a potential maneuverability issue. And then finally, the dimensions of the space as I shown on the table are below the dimensions that will be required by article 65. So that's a summary of the citations that we received in the request for zoning relief. I think what I'll do is I'll stop there and we can take questions from the board. Thank you. We appreciate it. Any questions from the board. But do you have comments from Bob Domingo? Okay, can you share them? The first is that BTD would like to have the traffic and parking consultant explain how the stacker system will operate. Next is the required more detail regarding this issue. Next is access and egress opening should be a minimum of 20 feet width to allow for safe operations. The third is that 50% of the spaces should be 20 feet by 8 and a half feet while the remainder of the spaces will be must be 7 feet by 18 feet. 25% of the spaces must be electric charging. The right to charge them already while the remainder of these spaces 75% must have the infrastructure in place. Future use as an electric charging parking space. That's what you wrote. Thank you. Do you want to address those before we move on? I don't know. J or Jeff or Emily. Do you want to respond? J. V. So 11, my name is Rocksbury's the developer. I would tell you as far as the stackers question, we're in the process of working with a company. We are in the stacker company. We understand. I have a couple questions for Bob but he's obviously not on the call. I'm not quite sure. Everything was designed to meet the standards. I'm a little confused on what it is he's asking for. I think one of the one that he was commenting on is he's asking for 50% of the parking spaces to be regular size versus compact. What percentage of your parking is compact versus regular spaces? Brian, do you have that in front of you? I don't jam. Do it some quick math. What's like we have 16 compact. So 16 divided by. 16 compact and how many total parking spaces? 159. So what's that? About 10%. Generally it's the variable to be larger than compact but it seems like we can easily add a proviso for the VB to be reviewed without paying to specifics. Any other questions on the proposal? Hearing done. Can I take a test morning? Good afternoon everyone. My name is Ross Cochran with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The applicant has completed their community process. The BPD how the butter's meetings regarding this project were concerns over traffic parking and size or brought up. The developers have met with local civic groups regarding the project but no official stance has been taken by the local civic group. At this time we'd like to defer the board to judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Henry, yes. Henry, you've been unmuted. You can state your name and address for the record please. Yes. My name is Henry Westman. I live in 92 train street in Dorchester. I'm an executive board member of the Poetsville neighborhood association. I'm a mass license architect and was an IAG member for the Article Lady large project, viewing for this proposal. My comments I've discussed with the president of the Poetsville neighborhood association, John Snydermann and he's on board with what I'm saying. The first comment that I'd like to make is regarding the community commercial district. Those were specifically defined in the code to create a diversified commercial environment that serves the larger market that are intended to encourage the development of neighborhood of business. The problem that we're having with this is that this is a conditional use but when that's combined with a recent approval of 780 which is under construction, the recent approval by the VPDA of 13 Norwood street for another 52 units and the proposal for the authorations to the comfort in or to a residential use usage. It's basically perverting the whole idea of the community commercial district in which it lies and furthermore those proposals will eliminate both of the only hotels and immediate vicinity of the area which serve specifically that function of the CC community commercial district. I brought these comments up at the at the IAG that the VPDA hearings and they fell on deaf ears. This can't be looked narrowly at only this project because there's repeated allowances for these residential uses in a special area of door jester. The next thing that I'd like to address with the board is the parking. The PMF said that there would be 145 spaces and five additional spaces that were on the site and I understand that they changed those. But the issue here is that there's 230 units in this place and not just single bedrooms but there are two bedrooms and three bedrooms and they're simply not enough parking. And when you combine that with 780 it all pull us out on the streets and there's been no accountability of this. The next issue that I'd like to address is section 7-3 of the code. Please wrap up. We have a lot of other raised hands. Excuse me. Can you please wrap up with your last point. Thank you. I didn't say this was my last point. We have a lot of other hands raised. I just want to make sure we get to everyone. Okay, well then I'll just count on the 7-3 which is paragraph 80, paragraph A. I'm sorry, the interruption through me off the arts is that there's no there's no basis for paragraph A or paragraph B of section 7-3. There's an existing motel hotel there already the remodeling they're going to demolish it and this is a self-created hard chip. The courts have ruled many times that a self-created hard chip is not a basis for a variance. More simply put, they simply could have made this building a little bit smaller, not have the floor area by violation and they do not have to have the 70 feet of height which is 25 feet more. They simply could have made it a little bit less. There's no basis for it. I understand you want me to finish by comments. I'll conclude on that now. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right, madam chair. I have Jen. Jen, you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I'll just put a record please. Thank you. My name is Jen Cartay. I'm 84 tonne of London Street in Northchester and I'm here on behalf of Northchester Growing together. I'm here on behalf of the neighborhood while I stay at the housing group with about 125 members. Over 200 new homes will be here will complement the existing housing stock in the area. I'll help alleviate some small part of our housing crisis and benefit and they will all benefit directly from the planned public improvements in the nearby 900 more and see and the duchess your base city proposals. We think this is an excellent opportunity to with some small areas create a bump in housing stock. Thank you for your time. Thank you. And now my north. Thank you, madam chair members of the board. On behalf of Union Carpenters, all our boys and residents and the one person I want to go to supporting is great respect. I asked the board to please consider BPD a already had a long and US process where the department was at the point in affirmative and the government. Thank you. Madam chair members of the board, Joe McGecker and city council Frank Baker's office would like to go on reckoning support. Madam chair members of the board, Tom Manion, Councillor Murphy's office at this time, Councillor Murphy would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. I do have one more. Could seven. Please be unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record please. Hi, seemingly, 18 deposit ab door jester. I am also a board member of the I.A.G. and a board member of the Pope's Hill neighborhood association. I am on record saying that I do support the project. I thought my ghost did a great job and decided to see what they're going to do. I'm sorry about the bike path and everything so I'd support the project. Thank you. That's all. Okay. Any other final questions for the board? Madam chair, can you just confirm that they are providing 15% of IDP? Can the people in it come from? Yeah, it's 14.8%. 14.8%. Thank you for being specific. I was watching earlier. I can tell. Any other final questions for the board? Okay. With that, may I have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with two provisels. One that is undergo BPD design review, paying special attention to the ground floor, commercial vitality. And the second is to have BTD review on the parking. And I guess the third proviser is to ensure that there is a minimum of 14.8 units dedicated to affordable. That being affordable. Thank you, Madam. A second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bethe-Barraza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Okay, we'll choose them. I'm sorry. This is me. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Pierre also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you so much. Great. Thank you. I'm going to give him a pure. Thank you. Okay. The next case on the agenda is BOA 1435181. The address of 551 Oilsen Street is the applicant for their representative. President? Yes. Josh Seigem. Ten Tremond Street, Austin, Massachusetts. Business address is here along with the Chang and Sen. Kama here to present for the public connection 551 Oilsen Street. You go to the next slide, please. Good afternoon. I should say Madam Chair, members of the board. As I mentioned, my name is Josh Seigem. I'm here to present along with my colleague, Sen. Kama here, and Victor Chang. The public connection. We are 100% locally owned cannabis company. Majority minority owned firm founded by myself and Sen. Kama here. We advised Victor Chang, who was also here on the Zoom. All of us have a long history working, living and serving in the city of Austin. Successfully operating businesses here. This is our home. I live about a block away from the proposed site. We are proud to come to you here today after unanimous approval from the Boston cannabis boards on February 22nd of this year. Next slide, please. Our team, as noted, Josh Seigem, one of the co-founders of my colleague, Sen. Kama here, who was also here. It's a long time, near neighborhood resident currently lives in Dorchester with his wife and family. Victor Chang, another member of our team, has two open dispensaries outside the city of Boston as an expert in cannabis retail and operations. And our security team, our security directors, Jerry Smart and Joe Harris of Smart Security, both former long-time Boston Police Department officials. Next slide, please. Thank you, Josh. Again, my name is Sen. Kama here. My home address is 63 Edmund Street in Dorchester, where I live with my wife and two sons. Our site is located at 531 Boyle, St. Street, where Wendy's restaurant was formerly located. It's about 6400 square feet across three floors. It's located in a high traffic retail area with great foot traffic and public accessibility. Next slide, please. There's only one dispensary open in the half mile buffer. One proof set is .4 miles away, but it's across the train tracks on Columbus Avenue and the South Bend. Again, with our location, the heart of the back bay and high density of retail foot traffic, we believe that our site is a strong location and will support a second dispensary in the back bay. Next slide, please. My name is Victor Chang, business address at 545 Boyle, St. Boston, which is just a few doors down from the proposed store. To further address the buffer, we wanted to look at its intent, which was to avoid the creation of a cannabis district or an area of the city overwhelmed by cannabis establishments. We clearly do not meet this definition as our store is over .4 miles away from the other two permitted dispensaries. One of them is located in the South Bend, which we believe will serve a very different customer base. In addition, the Boston Globe recently wrote an article about how busy the retail activity in the back bay has become and now exceeds pre-COVID levels. For example, the article highlights that retail spending in the back bay has increased 12% from 2019. And the organization that best understands the retail and economic fabric of the community, the back bay business, or back bay association, knows that permitting the copy connection would not be detrimental in any way and rather would be added to the retail community. In their support letter, they know our proposal is consistent with your organization's mission to enhance the quality of life and economic vitality of the back bay through advocacy, community building and service delivery. Next slide, please. To support our belief that customer traffic in the back bay accommodates our opening, we examine and place our AI data. Place our AI is one of the most trusted retail foot traffic data sources used by most real estate developers. Looking at their data for just 500 feet of our location, there are 1.8 million visitors, 4.2 visits annually. These visitors are not just walking by, but instead are spending time shopping as their average dwell time is 61 minutes. The vast majority of these visitors are originating from their home and after their visit immediately head home. Again, this is only looking at 500 feet of our site and not the 2,640 feet that would make up the half mile radius of our store. If we were to look at the place or data for that expanded radius, we would see an even greater number of visitors. Next slide, please. The other added benefit of our proposed site is the ease of access to public transportation and paid parking. There are four train stations, 17 blue bikes, 34 bus stops and 38 paid lots all within the half mile of our store. I'll turn it back over to the center. Next slide, please. We've listened to community feedback regarding frosty windows or dark storefronts. To that end, we have engaged Arnors for Humanity Co-Founder to create artwork that will beautify the storefront and activate the exterior. There will be no cannabis products visible from the street whatsoever. Again, we listened to the feedback and designed the storefront in a way that the neighbors have asked. We were expecting to evaluate the opinion of the neighbors and seek to be a positive neighbor in every way we can. Next slide, please. Our location, which is 48 compliant, will have two floors accessible to the public. The first floor is where customers will queue in a waiting area, have their IDs verified and then enter the store. If they have placed an order ahead of time, they can proceed to the point of sale counter and complete their express check-out. Again, our entryway is large enough so that there's minimal to no line up on the oil substrates. Next slide, please. The second floor is our primary retail space for customers who are visiting and have not placed an order ahead of time. On the second floor, they'll be able to speak with staff and peruse products. Again, because we have a primary retail experience located on the second floor elevated from the ground level, there'll be no cannabis products visible from the street. The basement, which is not shown on the plans here, is our primary location for our backup house operations. It's accessible by the rear alleyway. It's where deliveries will be made. This allows us to be efficient with deliveries and make sure that we don't have any double parking or issues on oil substrates. Next slide, please. You continue and maintain our commitment to this neighborhood. One of which is especially important to me is my wife Grace and young children pass up by this site two to three times a day. We've committed to not sung any individual pre-roll marijuana products. Our trash will be disposed in a lot of dumpster in the rear alleyway to minimize any road and impacts. You just heard there'll be no deliveries on oil street. We will have an interior waiting in queuing area. And there is a large sidewalk area that in previous iteration was a patio. But in the unlikely events that there is larger crowds, but wait there out of the transit area along the sidewalk. There will be no outdoor speakers for noise impact. And our proposed hours of operation are 9 am to 11 p.m. is approved by the cannabis board, which are consistent and in many cases, in many cases earlier than surrounding businesses. Next slide, please. To make a positive impact to the community, we've identified several areas to leverage our resources for the benefits. Certainly, a coply square park across the street and across the street from my home as well. We've committed to working with the Boston Parks Department and other stakeholders to make significant and sustained contributions to the park. Financially, as well as additional maintenance shifts, volunteer cleanups, and contributing to other events in the park. This financial commitment consists of $25,000 in our first year of operation, up to $100,000 on an ongoing basis to the fund for park in your mark for coply square. As you all know, the street is also a very busy retail corner with lots of traffic, walking by today, obviously getting ready for the marathon. There's a lot going on there. But any day of the year, it's quite busy. And we are committed to having our staff monitor regularly clean up the public spaces in front of our location. We will also have security staff at the exterior door there to prevent any loitering or other activities like that. We hope to work with the public works department to supply and service additional trash receptacles available to the public and conducting again monthly staff and volunteer clean up days. As you also know, coply squares uniquely well served by public transit and cycling infrastructure. We're going to encourage all guests and employees to walk, by rotate transit to the location. We will provide a transit subsidy and complimentary blue bike memberships to all employees, but also provide by parking and our outdoor security staff will not permit any customer to enter the store who has double parked along Boyleston Street. As far as public safety goes, of course, about outdoor security during our open hours and 24-7 high resolution security cameras throughout the area. Next slide, please. Because of these commitments and our outreach efforts, we're really proud to come to you with significant support from the surrounding community. You can see on this map where many, not all of the support letters and sign petition have come from. We're proud to have support of the Back Bay Association, the central synagogue Boston, whose facility is opening up just down the street. We've also made commitments of neutrality in any organizing labor organizing by employees and again, I'm proud to have the support of District State Representative Jay Livingstone District State Senator Lydia Edwards, our District City Counselor. Counselor Bog has written a letter of non-opposition and counsel is at large, a Rusey Luigin, Julia Mahia and State Rep China Tyler. Among many others, we hope to earn your support today as well and stay and ready to answer any of your questions. Thank you so much. Are you an equity applicant? We are a majority owned company, but we are not a boss. Are there questions from the board? Okay. Are you done with your presentation? Unless there are questions, Madam Chair. Okay. We do slide if there are specific questions around safety and security and other items we can address, but there are no questions. We do have a letter of opposition from the neighborhood association that mentions the proximity of the buffer zone, but also to a school. Can you address that? Sure. The cannabis control commission, the statewide regulatory agency has issued regulations. It's 935-CMR, that's code of mass regulations 500.002. That measures it based on, I guess, in simple terms, walking pathway, so it's not counting the buildings that you cannot walk straight through a building. Using that measurement, which is what the Boston cannabis board has adopted and led to their approval of us. We are close to, I believe, 700 feet away from that location. So outside the school bus is up. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Here and none. I'll open up to public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Maggie Vanspar from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this point, we would like to defer the judgment of the board. We held a public meeting on December 14th for this project. The meeting was short, but a variety of opinions were expressed. Some thought that it was a good opportunity for the back bay, while others voice concerns about over-saturation of the area with dispensaries and public consumption, given proximity to parks. Our office receives scores of form support letters from residents living in back bay across Boston and around Massachusetts. I'll also note that our office saw the letters of support from elected officials, including state Senator Lydia Edwards, state representatives, China Tyler, John Santiago, and Jay Livingstone, city counsellors out large, Julia McKeea and Risi Luizchen, and we also saw the letter of support from the back bay association. Prior to the public meeting, the applicant met with the neighborhood association of back bay, who wrote a letter of opposition citing concerns over proximity to the city. We also received three letters in opposition from some surrounding neighbors. With that, we'd like to defer a judgment of the board. My name is Anthony. I'm the back bay liaison for Councillor Bock, and I'm briefly briefly read the Coma sheet prepared for today. I have no with the proponents, and I'm grateful for the opportunities to summarize neighborhood feedback. The proposed ownership group is an entirely local group, and it includes my city council predecessor, Josh and Secom. The ownership group has committed to labor peace, in other words, not opposing or interfering in any efforts by workers to organize an order to collect bargain. The site is well situated in regards to public transit, a sort of walk from a copy station, back bay station, and a number of bus lines. The proponents have committed to not selling single pre-roll joints. They have also committed to adding a new trash barrel to mitigate any trash issues, and to participate in volunteer cleanup of the park. Most impressively, however, they have made a major long-term financial commitment to the maintenance and beautification of copy square. The site is within the buffer zone of other cannabis locations, in light of community concerns of over-centration in the back bay area. It is my policy not to submit a layer of support for any non-equity applicant within such a buffer zone. But in light of all for going for going commitments, to detailed operator plans, labor peace, and support for copy square, and my confidence in the local ownership group to carry these commitments out, I stand in non-opposition to the copy connections proposal. Thank you. My name? Thank you, Madame Ambassador, Madame Chair, members of the Board of Minerals for the Carpenters. You can be on behalf of all our course and races, and we want to go on record and support the project. Thank you. All right, perfect. I have four hands. Michael. You've been unmuted. Yes, thank you. Can we hear it? Yes, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think considering the fiscal union itself has based on the same consensus that, I think, it has also opposed in Newomervyl commercial resources and different countries even in the past. I'm sorry. I was muted. Conwrecked. You've been unmuted. You can state your name. I'm just for the record. Please. Yes. Conwrecked. I'm starting with. I'll try to show my camera here. I can't. You muted yourself, sir. Sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. I'm sorry. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Conwrecked. Is that enough? Thank you一 s Good afternoon. All right. Good afternoon, miss draft. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. For more, then chair, and, you've been admitted. Stated your name and I'll just go the record, please. Yes. Yes. And its has, but it's, but, you may already do end though. No, we cannot. We can hear you. Okay, there's no option for video here. I'm trying to. Okay. So yeah, hi. My name is Mary Sarkey. I'm the founding Rabbi of Central Synagogue Boston that just a block away from the establishment. I live in the back. They just a couple of blocks away. Be it can street. I can't think of a better person to be more responsible to run an establishment of this nature than George say. And it's friends. So I fully support the effort and just as a resident of the back they broke ten years now, concerned about different probabilities that potentially might arise from the establishments. I fully I'm just happy to know that Josh and Sinem will be running the establishment. And I know Josh loves this, loves the neighborhood, loves the city. And he fully has my support and encouragement in the cobbling connection. Thank you. Thank you. Caroline, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I'll just put the record please. Caroline, you hungry? Hi, can you hear me? Yes we have. Hi, sorry. Good afternoon Madam Chair and members of the board. My name's Count. I pay my average is one thirty one Commonwealth Avenue. I'm calling to put my support on record for this project. These three men have a long history in Boston working and living. They're eager to work with the community and responsive to the community. I think the example of the scene designed in front of the store feedback. I think additionally, it benefits especially on Boyle's and Street number one, nothing of Boyle's and Street looks attractive. So I don't understand the feedback about that, but I would indicate that having no cannabis visible in the street is a huge win. I think for the community, additionally, the location of it will reduce congestion due to accessibility to city bikes public transportation. I love the program that they're offering employees to hopefully reduce the amount of people who are using cars to get into work. They are really committed to reinvesting in the parks. I think the copy-square park rate there needs that kind of commitment from commercial locations in the city. Then again, I would just say that they're committed to back bay as it was indicated in the neighborhood association, whether that they're committed to enhancing quality of life and that can not vitality through advocacy and community building, which I think they've already shown so far. So I can't wait to see what they do. One that's you, A. Bruce. Thank you so much. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Jay, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name and I'll just go the record please. Thank you. My name is Jay Livingstone. I'm the state representative for back bay. I'm also a resident of back bay. I live at 311 Commonwealth F and I'm in full support of this project. I've known the applicants for many years and have been very involved in the community and will be great additions to the business community of back bay. Throughout this process, there's been very responsive as I'd expect, based on their history of community involvement, to the concerns of neighbors adjusting the project. I think there's a project that I hope you will be able to make a great deal of support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Jax, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name and I'll just go the record please. That's the last two please, Francis. Okay. I am one. My name is Vax Brewer. I am a decade long resident of the back bay. I live at 381 Commonwealth F and I am in full support of this project. I also have known Dr. Washington Sonnen for about a decade now and their commitment to the community has always been for the utmost good of everyone around. They will do the absolute best to make this a better space. I agree with what Caroline said. The oil since really need an upgrade and a facelift and I think this is definitely going to be a huge improvement. Having security on that street too will make it safer and for my fellow NAB members, we have two cannabis dispensaries already and I don't see any misuse of underage students or anyone in your schools going to those areas and I haven't seen any problems or misuse so I don't find that to be an issue with the distance. So I hope you will all approve this project and I appreciate you letting me speak. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Jax. And then the last one, Adam. You've been unmuted if you can stay in the name and I'm just for the record please. Sure. Hi, Adam, gender 192, Hyde Park, Avenue, Jamaica, Plan, lifelong resident of Boston, living JP, but working back bay. I've known the three applicants for many years now and I can't think of a better group of operators in cannabis industry. I think they do very well at this location. I think this location is extremely well suited for this use. It has been nationally proven through data points at this point that cannabis dispensaries from solid operators help aid in beautification and safety of neighborhoods. So I think that particular area is in need of that so I think they do well. So I fully support the operators on this project. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I'm sorry. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Solviz, the Council of Mod Michael Flarey, the Council would defer the Board on this particular proposal, but would simply emphasize the half mile buffer in the exhaustive community wide process that led to the text amendment to the zoning code. Thank you. Okay, was that man have a motion? Madam Chair, could I just have one clarification in terms of ownership? Can the African peace provide us with the breakdown of ownership since the equity applicants came up a couple of times? Sure. I can say right now at this point in time, Victor Chang has 9.9 percent and the Senate has 45 percent. So we are and majority minority on firm, but there are six standards to meet for the Boston equity application. Some of those are based on income as well as race census track, which you lived in. And we as a group did not meet those those specific standards to be an equity applicant, but we are a majority minority on firm. Okay, thank you. That clarification. Was that man have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval for this applicant only, which has a majority minority model. Ownership. Yep. Okay, may I have a second? Sit down. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betta Baraza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. When I move forward to the recommendation scheduled for 11 a.m. I will read the case number, the case number, the address, and we result from the of the vote from the zoning advisory subcommittee. We will walk in there. Case number, B-O-A, 142, 1688, address of 1066 Vanita Street. The vote was to deny the vote. Case B-O-A, 135, 2188, the address of 88. Chelsea Street. The decision was to approve what the proposal would be, PDA, design review of the hash and move the death path. Case B-O-A, 142, 4488, the address of 36 High Street was approved. Case B-O-A, 139, 9338, the address of 9 Sackville Street was approved with the Provider for BPD-A design review. Case B-O-A, 1208580, the address of 24 Pleasant Street was approved with the Provider for BPD-A design review for the zones. Case B-O-A, 1435497, with the address of Moore's Durham Square was approved with the Provider for BPD-A design review. We submitted to the Boston Land Market Commission for approval. Case B-O-A, 139, 4771, the address of 102 to 104, Vermont Street was approved. Case B-O-A, 143, 49, 3808, the address of 9 Wendellock Street was approved. Case B-O-A, 140, 901, the address of 26 greenview Avenue was approved with the Provider for the Plan for BPD-A for review. That's the dormant dimension that we reduce and that's the condenser unit that we relocate and screened up. Case B-O-A, 141, 5269, with the address of 211, 141, with the Provider that plans be submitted to the Aberdeen Architectural Conservation Commission on the Boston Land Market for review. Case B-O-A, 138, 2453, with the address of 226 Harvard Avenue was approved, with the Provider that the hours of operation be amended to Monday to Friday from 5am to 11pm and for Saturday and Sunday from 7am to 7pm. Case B-O-A, 143, 481, 1 with the address of 18 to 20 Meridian Street was approved with the Provider that the plans be submitted to the BPD-A review and that's all the recommendations. Thank you Mr. Stembridge. May I have a motion? Motion to approve the recommendation. Thank you, the following. Thank you, may I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. All right. 1-1130. For the re-discussion. Okay. First case in that category is B-O-A, 1-21, 4-6-04, with the address of 4-23 WF call highway. Is the applicant or their representative? Yes. Good afternoon, Lord. Your 20th-minute-day Fraser from the law firm, Dain Torpey, the Royal Street Boston Business Address. Along with me, I have members of and clergy from the church and as well as the applicant and some design professionals for the additional tactical questions. Please proceed. So thank you Madam Chair. Our application seeks to erect an outdoor advertising device in this case, a digital billboard. It'll be set on a single monopole. It has back-digital faces. Dimensions in our application is actually listed as 14 by 48 feet with a 64-hipe, but due to our discussions with the community, we actually have used that height to 55 feet. And our proposal seeks to remove the two static signs, the traditional marquees that are there in replace those signs with one billboard that goes in the middle of those two signs. So we'll be removing two in replace of placing one. Go to the next slide. I think you can see a rendering of the location, just to orient board. This is on 4-23 on highway, which is a busy commercial strip, a busy commercial through way. There is and we had a study before there was actually no residential impact to the sign. It faces the federally-funded highway. And so we're seeking to have that put in place, as I said, of the two signs that have been historically there. And again, I don't know if you see the next slide. Is there a rendering? Right, so what you see there is the existing sign, that might look familiar to folks. And there's one that you can see, if you go on the next slide, you'll see the other sign that will be removed. That's right. And then here on this slide, you see the rendering of the newly proposed sign, as well as the landscaping, which the applicant will be responsible for. That hill is about 100 feet. So you can see this is just about the scale of where the new sign would reach. And also some of the proposed greenery. So with that, I don't know if there's any questions from the board. We're happy to entertain those, but that's a true abeyer. Happy to entertain any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Madam Chair, I don't have questions, but did BPDA make a recommendation? There are recommendations for denial. Yeah, they just, so we did it. I'm sorry. God. Sorry, it was a bit of a rush. So we did touch-based with BPDA during our process. The initial discussions were that they were going to see what Sony came out with. So we're certainly willing to comply with any BPDA design review with regard to the sign. We think we do meet the criteria in section 11-7, particularly since replacing the traditional mark, these signs are encouraged under that section. That's mainly what we're trying to do. This particular area, as you know, is undergoing some extreme changes. And we think that what we're proposing is that more in line with what neighborhood is turned into as far as that commercial, through way. Can you confirm the sign is only one direction? So what I'm looking at is what I don't see anything on the other side, is that correct? No, no, it is not. It is too faced. So it will have signage on the other side. I don't know if we have, but from the other direction, you will also be able to see it as well. And I think there's a slide there that shows that, but if not, yes, the sign is too sided. So you can see it from that side as well. But both sides may have zero impact to any residential on the other side of the street, which you can't see, but it's to the right of your screen. That's rental cars, I believe there's a Starbucks opening, so there's only commercial activity on the other side of the street. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Okay, here in the not-and-may, I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office held in a butters meeting on June 9th, 2022. Many Director butters joined the call as well as members of East Boston's broader community. There were opposition voiced from Director butters for gardening environments, landpacks, as they stated. This is a conservation area for wild animals and also commented on concerns that light pollution from the billboard could be a danger to drivers on the Helen Highway. Butters shared their discontent with the current state of the property's conditions. Other residents and attendants supported the proposed billboard, seeing that the billboard would bring revenue to the church so they can better upkeep the landscaping and property of the grounds. The applicant also met with the Orient Heights Neighborhood Council. On two occasions, the feedback from the council was very similar to the feedback received during the butters meeting, but ultimately the board decided to vote in support of this project on a special meeting held seven residents supporting six in opposition. Our office received three letters of opposition from the butters, which are moving forward into the board and they may have been other letters submitted. We also received 382 letters of support in support of the billboard from the broader East Boston neighborhood as well as a letter from state representative A.J. Maddara. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Debbie? Hi, many of you are as well as the 30-quarters Street East Boston and the president of East Boston Parkwater and I'm a co-chair of the MAP Central Civic Association. I am in favor of this because that hill has been nothing but an eye sore for many, many years and the lifelong resident of East Boston and I totally support this. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvins, the Council of Latin Michael Flarey, Councilor Gorengan's. What? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Member of the board, Tom Anion from Councilor Aaron Murthy's office. Councilor Murthy, at this time, would like to go in strong support for this project. But one being this digital billboard will bring in revenue for the dawn-oriented fathers, thus allowing them to expand and continue their charitable efforts. The organization had done for centuries. Also, law enforcement agencies rely on the visibility of digital billboards who assist them in putting out public service announcements from weather reports, emergency traffic additions, to senior burrow lords. So this will be a positive enforcement for the community. So at this time, it helps them make a long record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Gail, you've been unmuted if you can say your name and not just for the record, please. Yes, thank you. My name is Gail Miller. My address is 232 Orient Deaf. I've been a, and I live within a stone's throw of this urban wild. I've been a 42-year resident, very active in the Orient Ice neighborhood council. And I would like to point out that the proponent, the sons of divine provenance, does not appear to be the owner of the billboard seeking invariance, but I would, but I believe it would only be a recipient of future revenues issued by Maverick Media. Most importantly, I would like to direct your attention to the fact that this proposal is to be situated within a uniquely zoned conservation sub district, being one of only several in the entire city, which addresses the natural aesthetic characteristics of the area. It does not allow for billboards for which this proponent is seeking invariance. Digital billboards are now only allowed in several neighborhoods in the city, and this is not one of the areas. Also, a digital billboard already exists on the next corner, and several existing extremely large billboards are already dotting the highway in alignment with this proposal. Billboards are currently considered a blank, and this proposal would add to the visual and light pollution in the naturally vegetated hillside, which is in conflict with the conservation sub district zoning. I believe it's part of your deliberations that needs to consider whether or not proponent has attempted to satisfy other financial endeavors here before it can seek remedy. The church itself is a major landowner in the neighborhood, and it recently received $10 million this year when it sold their nursing home. Lastly, this conservation sub district site, about the residential neighborhood, and a digital billboard is in direct conflict with the characteristics of the conservation sub district zoning. I would like to add one final note that there is a way to know which of our church parishioners supporting this our fund, or having standing and may not even be residents of East Boston, to react to the city speaking about the future development along this neighborhood. We cannot project future, we can only speak to present circumstances. If federally funded highway, I believe this is a violation of their code because under the Highway Geographic Act, it does not permit billboards. So, I'd like to speak in opposition, obviously. Thank you for allowing me to comment. Frances, any other raised hands? No, all the raised hands. So Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands that are actually in the room with me if I can allow them to speak, and then I could address Miss Miller's comments if I could. Well, are the people in the room the proponents? We're looking for public testimony. Yes, yes, we have residents here. Yes, I'm just meeting here because it's one central place, but they are residents of the neighborhood. Please invite one to speak. Yes, thank you. Father Murek Kovalczyk, I am here, a local spirit of the sense of divine providence, Donoriani Fagas. So, we are here in the Orient Heights in this part of East Boston for almost century, 74 years exactly. And we are serving this community where we've been nursing home, we've sold for years ago, so I was a little confused year ago with the environment. We serve nursing home in the shrine near, sir, even of 3000 immigrants, people from Latin America, from America and from... Can you just put from... Are you the proponents? Are you the person seeking this up? Are you the organization seeking the application? I am the priest from the church, from the church and so on. Okay, but you're the... Can the attorney... I am the resident. Okay. All right. Good afternoon, manager. Salvatore Matino, lifelong resident of East Boston. I live there, 76 Montmorex, the avenue. I am in a butter. I live in a corner hill. I'm actually here because I'm finally excited about a billboard. If you are familiar with me calling Highway, there's numerous billboards on that highway. Maybe three years ago, they approved a digital one at that location. But I'm excited because these two billboards, they really need some care. That one billboard, electronic, will be helpful to the church, but also for me, it's a finally have someone that's accountable to that billboard. That if there's a problem that helps that needs to be cleaned and maintained, I know I could call that person to go over there and maintain it. I could tell you, I'm not a chair person, live it under this hill and talk to my name or most of us, to not all, to support this billboard. It might be a couple that are all squid, but most us do support it. A lot of them are in the mode today with me and support it as a billboard. So I urge you to support this billboard because I think it's a good thing for the neighborhood because the state is the one that stays on the highway where there's numerous billboards on that highway. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Really a warm warm. Thank you, Mr. Carino. Thank you, Matt. Thank you, Mr. Carino. My name is Joseph Carino. My address is 43 CDWAB, he's boss. I made a product, a project that I've lived here, I entirely life. I'm the Director of the Service in a Painting District Council, 85. I have a letter from the union and strong support of this project. Many of my members are from these bosses. This place has been a neighborhood I saw for too long and this project will be cleaned up and maintained with back media in the future. This is a great proposal because no one can even see from the hill because it is backed down on the highway. Again, I'm a strong support of this project. Don't support. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I do have one more raised hand. I know raised hand. We need to move on. Thank you. Joe, you've been unmuted if you want to state your name, I'll just fill the bucket, please. My name is Joe Mario. My address is 52 Walthamire Avenue, East Boston. I live about one and a half blocks from the property and I just want to reiterate what is being said about what a mess the property is now. I think it's a complete win-win community, in front of a location with a new billboard. I do know personally the people involved with the billboard. They've been very generous to our community in the past and they expect them to continue to do so. Strong support. Thank you. Madam Chair, just to address some of the comments with regard to the conservation area. I mean, what the aim here is to, as you've heard, that this site is literally trash and we do intend to clean it up to make it more available, and have it to the environment. And then secondly, with regard to electronic billboards, there is, as you know, in the code, the code, section 117, which we were cited for, does put forth five or six criteria, which we all need and any other conditions that you will intend to meet. And the third, with regard to the church not being the owner of the billboard, that's correct. The church is not in the business of wanting to build boards and operating billboards. So there is at least agreement, but the church will be receiving the revenues from us. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that may have a motion? I'd like to make a motion for approval, but this is our opinion only. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better for us up. No, given this is a conditional use and it's not allowed in this area. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. No. Mr. Langham. Yes. To be consistent, the chair also votes no. Motion does not carry. Mr. Havier. What's our, do we have to put another motion? You don't need to. This fine. Okay. It's fine. Okay. Next, case. Okay. Next. We the next two are complaining cases. First being BOA 1419403. The address of five Nanceel Street. Second being is BOA 1419404. The address being 127 St. Andrew Road. Is the applicant or their representative? Yes, I am Mr. Stembridge. But I have to do a matter there. The board attorney Derek Small of a business just up on top of the road. Okay. We're here seeking relief to direct the two family dwelling on a vacant lot. I'm here. The zoning sub district is a 4,000. That's not our plan. Yeah. Are you showing the wrong plans? Yes. Is this the next one? Yes. Thank you. Again, we're seeking relief to direct the two families dwelling on a vacant lot. The zoning sub district here is a 2,000. 4,000. Our lot size is pretty substantial. 5,000. That's not quite a good plan. They programs is really... 17% is CEO. 2. What I know. Our building alignment is going to be modal. A lot in the environment of 4,000, we have 30,000, 50. Fuck yeah, it says that requirement, and we have five, which is the modal study. In a rear yard requirement, 40 feet, and we have 30 feet. Now, with regard to the companion case at 127th St. Andrews Road, we are applying for a use of premises to allow parking, the driveway, with the maintenance, with the steering driveway. And so we're being cited as premises at 127th St. Andrews Road. Both properties are in common ownership, and the new proposed two-family actually not as used to people be for the owner's resident, our family members, will be coming up for that. So with regard to 127th St. Andrews Road, we are being cited because the driveway is keeping acts that you can take as far as you can get. We are proposing a shared driveway, with the curb cut. In the back of St. Andrews Road, going into the underground and underground parking at five minutes. With regard to the units at five minutes, you should be mad and share. Unit one will be a one-bedroom, one bath, about 9.25 feet, and unit two will be a three-bedroom, two bath, at 1,000th floor. I know our architect, you know, is on if there are any further questions, or as the plan, but we'll stop there and we'll have to think of a question. Folks, we've got it. Thank you, Mr. Small. Any questions on the plans? Okay, here we go. May we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, the corner, new moon with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is elected to defer to the judgment of this board. I have some background information on the community process, ONS hosted in a butter's meeting for this project on September 22, 2022. Four butter's joined the call. Butter's expressed concerns over height, intensity, and parking. One of butter's statements. They did not think a two-family house will enhance the street. The project also presented to the Orient Heights Neighborhood Council on October 2022, in February of this year. The council voted to oppose with 37 members supposing and nine supporting. Members commented that the street was too dense, and it's African-noseeking too many variances. I, with that, would defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No other raised hands, Madam Chair. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDA Design Review. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bader Barrow's A. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to move forward. I have an afternoon. Next, we will move on to the one-time hearing. Yes. The first one being case BOA, one-four-four-four, the RE-four, the address of a Reven Walker Street is the applicant for the representative. Present. Yes. Good afternoon, Members of the board. I'm going to move on to the committee. The committee will order a attorney Laryne Spetino with the business address of 245 Somner Street in East Boston. We're here today seeking to enlarge the deck, the back door of an arty existing door or single-family house, and add a roof deck to that door. Some of the relief that we are requesting is roof structure, would be 450 square feet and where it 80 even though we're adding with the roof deck. Side yard five, it would be a five foot minimum and where it two feet six for proposed. In Ray, I would be a 25 foot minimum and where it point eight for posed, which are essentially already existing conditions. But because we're increasing the non-conformity, that's why we're looking at what you today. And with that, I can answer any questions. Absolutely. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. With that, may I have public testimony? Good. Madam Chairman, the board is a shun bringing with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Is that the time that we defer to the Department of the Board, which is just a background on the community process? The director butters were fired and that was complete on January 24th. And that we would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Any other raised hands? Yes. Beth? Hi. I'm just the architect. If you have any questions. Okay. Any other questions? I'm sorry. Any other raised hands? No additional raised hands. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review paying special attention to the access to the roof deck with the stairs to provide an alternate and that's it. I have a second. Six minutes. Thank you. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case BOA 1423072. The address of 15 Rust Field Street is the applicant for their representative present. Mr. Frazier present. No check in. No. All right. So let's move on and come back to that. Next we have five companion cases. The first being case BOA 1364371. Next is case BOA 1364395. The address is also 105. Case BOA 1364376. The address of 101. I'm here. Hello, guys. We're on normal right now. Well, we'll come back to the next case is BOA 1364380. The address of 103. No real street. And the last being case BOA 1364391. The address of 107. No real street. Is the applicant for their representative present. Yes. My name is Donald for two and I'm representing Mr. Richard and Francine Lilliano in this project. I'm the project architect from. Well, design architect space out of sale Massachusetts. Okay. So you will be joining us in the process. I'm here to talk to you about the proposal and the violations. All right. So we're subdividing and existing lot into four different lots and. We've already met with the community and have gotten feedback. So the project is basically creating more housing for the housing stock that we have. housing stock that we have shortage of housing stock that we have actually. And so we decided to divide the loading to four and the violations are FAR violation. Instead of 0.5, we require 0.9 and the minimum of size of 5,000, we would like it to be 3,700, and there is also a violation on the parking offer that was shown. So if we can move forward to the next. Actually, I'm not sure why that's the one that was submitted. That was amended ever since. And the amendment was simple. We didn't want to provide a lot of crook cuts. We didn't need to provide a lot of crook cuts and we met with the Department of Public Works and they requested that. We reduced them on crook cuts. So the latest version of that I have is the 0.5, 16th, 20th, 20th, 20th, 20th, 20th. I'm sure what that's. What can you let us know how many crook cuts you can have? Exactly. That's what you see right there. Exactly what's done. That's correct. Thank you. So it would be like one for a building. Each one is two family and provides about five bedrooms per unit. Basically trying to provide proper housing families to live there within the neighborhood. One of the iterations was a massive block of a building that really wasn't congruent with the neighborhood and the fabric. So we decided to divide it into smaller pieces and persist in with or even the outborders. The buildings next door are pretty much the same size and same style. So we maintained that. It's probably. Also just so you know, Flow Design Architects focuses on in the diversity of the field of architecture and construction and that comes full plate here with the owners. They are minority owners. They live within the neighborhood. We have Richard who is a builder. His son just decided to be an architect and they have a little one that was born and now but I'll make sure she's also an architect. So they are trying to be entrepreneurs, developers, builders within the community which is something that we try to promote. I think you can come. Then I just got a text about half an hour ago that they ever want to see the chat. I just need to hear you. You folks. Oh. Oh, Mr. Portuna. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, so. No, not Mr. Portuna. No, I did not mean him. I didn't mean him. I didn't mean him. I think that was new to everybody. So yeah, so that's pretty much it. So that's the way the units are laid out. I'm not sure who's talking. Who's speaking as a better. Thank you. Okay. Sorry about that. Okay. So they said so the units are divided into lower level which would be the basement and the first floor and then the upper most floors are for the second unit. And as I said, they each provide five bedrooms and two bathrooms. Thank you. Any questions on the plans? Madam Chair, do you have a question for the applicant? Would you be open for tandem spaces so that we can reduce the curb cut to 10 feet? Yeah, wouldn't be a problem. What do you think? Re-share. Yeah, I'm okay with that. Okay. And then should we assume that the elevations is kind of repeatable in the other three lots? Is this like copy and paste, copy and paste? Yes, the elevations are consistent within the lots. No, they've repeated. So they're going to be the same style that what I'm seeing right in front of me. Yes. Yeah, essentially the same bill in four buildings. Okay. Would you be open to modifying it a little bit? So I'm looking at the Google Earth and the houses that exist are kind of unique in themselves versus it being all the same as a modular. Yes, I mean, again, in my opinion, I think that would actually be richer for the neighborhood. But I'm okay with that. I was considering it because I had brought it up and I was thinking about doing that. Okay. I think it will have to take more exploration, but for sure, yeah, we'll explore each one once to be unique. Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm not suggesting a very costly, each one being different. It's just in order to enhance the street, the houses are unique. It's just to take that into consideration, even it's variant and material palette. Okay. Thank you. And for the questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, Matt here. Yes, sir. Will any of the makeup of these, will any of them be affordable, will they be for homeownership to break down? Well, they are going to be my career. And these are condos? Are these homeownership or rentals? No, rentals. Rentals? Okay. So that's your question, Mr. Stimperch. Yes, sir. My question. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none. May I take public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and the neighborhood services. This time, the Mayor's Office looks deferred to the judgment of this board. My apologies. I don't have a lot of background information on the community process, but we did receive a letter from the local civic association, Harvard Washington, Norwell, civic association, which sent a letter to this board in opposition to this proposal, citing the size of the proposed buildings. I wish they didn't feel I would fit in with the character of the neighborhood. I would gladly defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I do have one of my hands. Mike Sanders, you've been unmuted. If you can stay your name and address for the record, please. Mike. I'm sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I just tried to understand if you're a four against. About one 14-year-olds, you've got to cross speak for that project that's been there for here. Did I group around there for the last 50 years? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. So, It's walk. Still walked out of mine. But I've been here a lot of oldies in that neighborhood. So, how are we going to collaborate there? Thank you. Thank you. Brian? Was this Councillor Royal's office? Yes. Yes. I got up the new Madam chairmantz to the board by the name, the Council of Brown were out and in regards to the Norwell Street parcels, we did not receive any letters of opposition. And originally, as Connor said, we received from our Board Washington Norwell originally a letter of denial, but they further sent a letter of conditional support. In regards to this project, the Council would like to go in opposition at this time, just to allow a promote community engagement. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Not additional restrictions. You're only five May? Yes, sir. So I'm the owner of Rachel Luriano. I've been in the community for about 35 years. My whole family lives in Boston. I'm a Boston resident also. I've been developing for about three years now, small developer. When it comes to the property, he came away of how we've been managed. I've been managing multiple properties. I have about 20 units that I manage. I have syrup problem with them. And you know, I have, you could search my rest of me. There's no problem in my when it comes to tenants putting complaints on me. Now, another thing, I'm not sure if I can. We didn't meet before the community twice. The first round, we were concerned about, there were some concerns about sustainability approaches to the project. And that's when we decided that we're going to be going all electric heatpunks systems and there were some things that we added. And the second time it was proof by the neighborhood association, they only required that the parking had a fence or some sort of protection for children. And they were actually very happy with the amount of green space that we're providing around the other. So we did need twice with them. We got consensus from that. Thank you. And actually, Linda Chamkin was there. Yeah. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with a proposal that the project undergoes BPD a non-review for the site planning to only allow for one curb cut that is 10 feet. And the other would be to kind of review the exterior to ensure that there are some unique qualities for each of the units. Thank you. And can you confirm you need one curb cut that's 10 feet per. Yes. So given that given that the law is smaller, it would lean itself to a better kind of pedestrian flow and connection to minimize it to a more narrow curb cut. I reach a lot. Thank you. May I have a second? Sicklet. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B08 140 695. At rest being 147 the positive avenue is the applicant will they represent the present. Mr. Crimes on. Brian. Yes. They're here. Brian. And Jacklyn. I don't see him on there anymore. They did sign it. Jacklyn I think is on as an attendee with his hand raised. Jacklyn Currence. I see a Brian. Brian. Yes. Thank you, Connor. Thank you. Brian. Hello. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Oh, good afternoon Madam Chair and Board members. My name is Brian Kingsbury. I'm the owner of 147 the Pons at Avondorchester. Where before the board today trying to put an extension on the back of our house that's about 276 square feet. It's a one story extension with a roof deck on the second on the top of it for our neighbors who are on the second floor. We need a variance on the back of the house. The bear current setback is 30 feet and we have 21.9 feet, which is an existence with our current large, which is attached. And so we're before the board to get that variance. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, Mayor Public testimony. Yes. Madam Chair and members of the board. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor's office selected to refer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process are office held in the butters, meaning on December 8th. No concerns were raised. The applicant addressed all questions that residents had and they went on to the Hope Hill Neighborhood Association and understand the civic group did not have any concerns either. With that, we defer to this board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board. Joe McEckridge, City Councilor Frank Baker's office would like to go on record. We'd like to our record and support. And I have one additional one hand please. Chair, Deborah and John, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I'll just for the record, please. I'm Deborah Scully. My husband John is right here with me. Seven dates, Red Holy Street and Dorchester. We went to the Hope Hill Neighborhood Association meeting where it was presented. The plans were shown and there was a presentation. And we're very much in favor of the project. It's a beautiful piece of property and it will just add to the beauty and in no way in the neighborhood. Thank you very much. Thank you. We'll have to have a motion. To make a motion, you're a purve. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brasow. Yes. Mr. Weow. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Lannam. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case BOA. 143-5173. With the address being 400 belt rate Avenue. The applicant for a representative. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board of Attorney John Flesini on behalf of the applicant on 400 belt rate Avenue. Are we in this afternoon? How many are you? Great. So 400 belt rate Avenue is kind of an undercase. It's stable and shopping. 10,000 to 421 square feet. This was actually approved by the BPD back in 2016 as well as zoning. It was like in December. I think the zoning board was seven early 17. It had been reiled in litigation regarding ownership. Not any of our issues or anything like that. The system we're using for parking they discontinued. We get reached out to the BPD. To because when this was permanent put it in perspective how long ago was 18 units with 33 parking spaces. So we went back to the BPD so we could lower that amount to 24. We said no. We want this to be one to one parking in 18. We filed notice the project change and that was approved by the BPD in December on December 15. And we're here that for that today. So the only thing is changing the building staying the same everything is staying the same in the project. The only changes. Instead of having 33 parking spaces for 18 units. For the BPD's recommendation were 18 for 18 spaces one to one. I'm here to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have a pragmatic question. What happens to the left or space? It was it was underground. It was going down deeper. This better veranda so it was digging down below. So we went through this long. PIC and ball process and then they discontinued this three level. Got it. It was that. Okay. Great. I didn't know if you were going to give that a give that back to the community. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. That would be great. No questions. Thank you. Thank you. With that, Mayor Public Testimony. I.E.S. Madam Chair, members of the board. Call on our new one with the Mayor's Office and the services. The sound of the Mayor's Office. I'd like to defer to the judgment. This board has the African representation mentioned that this project was originally approved in 2016. When there was a significant community process. I understand that the BPD a helped one public meeting. The community's request to discuss the changes. Beyond that, there's not been significant changes to the proposal. I will. That we defer to the board. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No raised hands. All right. With that, now motion. I'm sure I make a motion to approve. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Ms. Weow. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Enjoy your day. Thank you. Next, we have case B08. 1424793. The address being 7th, 7th, 1th Road. Is the applicant or representative present? Hello. My name is Derek Rubinoff. Derek Rubinoff architect. Where the architect project with me is a nut-beck knocked-a-goal. Team here at Derek Rubinoff architect. And also, David Lupita is the owner of the building. And the project is really pretty simple. It's existing low-rise, it's a four-story building with several apartments in it. There was a laundry mat that had been on the ground level here. And it basically failed business. And it's basically vacant for some time. And what we'd like to do is convert it into an accessible apartment, a two-bedroom apartment. And this needs relief for extension of the knowledge of forming use. It's a conditional use actually in multi-family residential zone. And we also need relief for usable open space and street parking in sufficient. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we have public testimony. Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair. My name is Frank Mendoza, Mayor of Austin, Brighton Leason for the Office of Neighborhood Services. I'm here to testify that this applicant did have a meeting at the end of January, January 31st. There were no significant concerns raised by the abutters. The applicant also presented to the Brighton Olsen Improvement Association. I believe Annabelle Gomes, the zoning care of the Brighton Olsen Improvement Association, is on this hearing to give testimony now. With that said, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Okay, here in Nunman, public, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve with the proviso that no building code really be granted. I've seconded. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Ms. Weewal. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. William. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 144-3680. The address being 122-124 Brighton Avenue. Is the applicant with the representative? Yes, Mr. Stemberidge. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. The 38th and the 8th floor. I'm just a warm top to the road. The day we're here, seeking me lead. I'm going to take out the legal occupancy of the building from offices. They'll all sell goods, the retail store to a restaurant with takeout and with a restaurant boot code. The zoning sub district here is the Harvard Ave Community Commercial One. Our lot size. 18,072 square feet. The zoning violations are takeout used for the restaurant is a provision used in this zoning sub district, which I find is odd. But in the restaurant, use is a conditional, there's a business district, the birth district, and those are the violations along with the Oxtaport. Any questions? We're doing a restaurant with a boot code. The boot code will consist of approximately 15 vendors. And we are working with BTP to assess the takeout, use, and the delivery service aspect. Thank you. I'll stop there and open up the question. Good forward. Questions from the board. Okay, hearing none, Madam Public testimony. Yes, good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Frank Mendoza here again, Austin Brighton, the A's on the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Here, it's a testify that the applicant did reach out to both the butters and to the larger community, the Austin Brighton, the Austin Civic Association. We heard no significant concerns from the community and the Austin Civic Association wrote a letter this morning around 730, I believe, to the board, expressing their approval of the proposal before you. With that said at this time, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Dizardaro representing the Austin Civic Association. We would like to go on record and support this. Is it tremendous opportunity for local small businesses, given the challenges that they're currently facing? So again, we want to go on record and support. Thank you. I'm just not going to force it. Madam Chair, has it been passed on because the last member clarity has more records for it? Thank you. Without me, I'm a motion. Madam Chair, I'm before a motion of approval with BPA Dison review on extra changes. May I have a second? Sessing. Mr. Semmerich. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Madam Chair, just one clarification. That is with the takeout used provisos, right? Correct. Okay. Just want to be clear. I have one of the records. Okay. Thank you so much. You want to have a good day? Thank you so much. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 141-1397. The address being 610 Chelsea Street is the applicant for their representative president. Yes. Good afternoon. The last seat of the lady, Hawkins, with a law firm of principal belt tie with an address of one international place. On behalf of the applicant, with me today is Shinhai, who is the CEO of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. On behalf of the applicant, with me today is Shinhai, who is the CEO of the applicant entity. This is a certified Boston equity applicant who is seeking to cite a wholesale and courier cannabis delivery operation at 610 Chelsea Street in what is currently a vacant space in an industrial manufacturing area in East Boston. There is no public facing component to this proposal. The structure consists of two stories, approximately 2500 square feet, with 12 onsite parking spots. As you can see from the plans and onsite to specifically, the storage area, including the bulk, is located on the first floor, towards the front of the space, with the packaging in the rear. The second floor will be used for office. Upon commencing operations, we anticipate beginning with three delivery vehicles, conducting legal deliveries between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. in the greater Boston area. The hours of operation approved by the Boston cannabis board are 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. to allow for beginning and wind down of operations. This site will be fully secured, alarmed with both interior and exterior cameras and lighting in full compliance with the cannabis control commission. All products will be stored in a highly secured vault, and odor controls will be put in place to ensure there is no odor emanating from the premise. We anticipate hiring between 20 and 25 employees, the majority of which will be full-time, and we will be focusing on diversity, inclusion, and local hiring, not only in our employees, but also in contracting with other operations. We attended a butters meeting hosted by the mayor's office of neighborhood services, and also reached out to the civic association as well as the public health care and health care providers. We have only been met with positive feedback. Again, the board is aware that delivery licenses are limited to the first three years to social equity and economic empowerment applicants only. And in this case, this applicant is also a certified Boston applicant. So with that, I know it's been a long day, and we are here to answer any questions. Any questions from the board? Yes, the has been a long day. Well, the location seems pretty appropriate, so may we have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. There's some background information in the community process, ONS House and the butters meeting for this proposal on November 22, 2022. Only one butter adjoined the meeting, expressed no concerns and asked no questions. The applicant also reached out to the Eagle Hill Civic Association to inform them about the proposal. The civic expressed no concerns at that time from what I understand. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Francis? No raised hands, Madam Chair. Would that be a motion? A light to pick up a motion. Will the approval of this applicant own? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Betabraza? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, before we adjourn, it was one case that we did not get a response from. Is 15 Russ Field? Is the applicant for 15 Russ Field on? Yes. Timothy? Yes, Madam Chair. My apologies. It's a difficult piece between the last hearing of this. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the question. I'm going to ask you to take a look at the question. Is the applicant for 15 Russ Field? Yes. Are you going to ask Timothy Fraser for 15 Russ Field? Yes. Can you walk us through the question? Sure. So my client, while Boston is the owner of the property and basically just seeking a variance to update the buildings, it is not the currency to merge its current use. I'm not going to ask you to. I was already operating as a self-storage facility with my client purchase the property. And once they engaged our firm, we discovered that the prior self-storage owners not only had updated the buildings used an occupancy since 1978, but also was operating or existed in the manager's apartment on the premises. So we're seeking to have the manager's apartment legalized as well as having the occupancy updated from its 1978 occupancy when it manufactured shoosles and marble sinks to have it updated to its current use, which is self-storage, plus one accessory apartment dwelling unit. That one bedroom apartment will house only U.S. permanent on-site manager. So it's not offered to the public or for public vendor occupancy. The current occupant or rather, there's nobody that occupies it currently, but upon approval of that on-site manager who's a 17 year employee of U.S. will be the only occupant of that apartment. And that manager will actually provide the facility with 24 hour security and monitor public safety on the premises. So that's our proposal and we're happy to take any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony, please? I have no resistance, Adam Chair. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McEckeren, City Council, Frank Bigger's office, would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, would you like to put forward a motion of approval for an accessory personal quarter only, not an additional dwelling unit, and for this position of only? Sorry, for the accessory standard again? For accessory personal quarter, not for an additional dwelling unit. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Beralzo. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, members of the board. All right. Thank you all. Have a good day. Thank you. Have a good day, folks. Thank you. I might. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.