 Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for April 25th, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. As with our in-person comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called where the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Good evening, Ms. Betabraza. Present. Okay, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. To begin with the hearing from 5 p.m. First cases, be aware, 1566165, with the address of 16 Koch Street is the applicant and or their representative present to explain to the board. Yes, my name is Derek Rubinoff from Derek Rubinoff, architect at 82 Spring Street in West Rocksbury in the architect for the project. The owner just tried to call me but was missing the link. Give me one second. I will just email him the link quickly. Second. One second. Good, yes. So the project's pretty simple. What we're trying to do is put a roof deck onto existing two family house. This is going to be on the back extension and so it's existing extension that's out there. It's two story extensions. So the roof deck actually will be on the lower part of the roof. It won't be on the main part of the house roof, which is in the front where there's a third story. And we need relief for a side setback and for a rear setback. There's a little bit of a candle lever over the stair below. We'll work that out when we get to structural. But other than that, it's really pretty simple. It's a private roof deck for the upper unit. We'll replace one rear window on that third story there with a door full height door insulated door. That would go out to this private roof deck. The roof deck is not something that would be seen by certainly not by anybody at the street because it's blocked by the third floor. Can I ask in the image on the left, is that overhang existing or are you causing it with the roof deck? We would propose to have that overhang. That would be a new overhang. So the existing roof does not overhang anywhere near to that extent or at all. So what we would do is actually build the roof deck so that it has that overhang. And the reason for that is the owner was requesting that particular size of the roof deck. That's just overhangs and egress there actually provides some protection from rain and snow to the existing second means of egress from that upper unit. And how wide is that, how wide does that extend beyond the building? That extends. I'm just going to check the drawing file right now on my computer. That extends. Give me about five seconds here. Okay, that extends looks like it extends about a little just slightly less than three feet. Okay. And that is that's not projecting over on any property lines that little courtyard in the back is part of 16 cooks lot. So that has nothing to do with the side set back. So that's really what we need that's actually on the other side of the deck that's right against the property line. Any questions, Mr. Browser? I don't have any questions, but the BPD did give a recommendation that the project should eliminate the overhang. Okay, anything else you want to add before we open it up to public testimony? Nope. Okay, let's have public testimony. Madam, I'm sure members of the board, Sean Brin with the mayor's office and neighborhood services and the butter's meeting was held to 16 Cook Street on February 28th. So I'm sure that the staff will find this office has received zero letters in support into an opposition. They do cite that the deck that was being built on other structure would be too close to their property with that we would defer judgment to the board. So sorry, Mr. Brin, so both of the butter's these are butters who are concerned that the. Yes, one of the letters was specifically that the size of the deck. The size of the deck it would be too late on they felt it was going to be too close to their property. Okay, thank you. Any other ways to get a metric have no raise hands. Okay. I see one raised hand. John. I'm sorry. It's still up. Oh, sorry about that. Yep, John go ahead. I apologize. Center request unmute you. And John, are you looking to give testimony here? I see your hand is raised. Oh, he's on his two guests. John, I sent a request to both. Oh, there we go. Can you hear us? Yes. Okay. So my name is John Agree. My wife and I own 15 and 17 sheep street, which is immediately behind 16 Cook Street. And my my letter is one of the ones that Sean. Brin was referring to in opposition. My my bedrooms and my bathrooms for both both of my units 15 and 17 sheep street. And then 21 feet of this deck. And I think I think that's pretty close. So I just wanted to get on the horn and and and have you guys hear me. Amy, Amy out. Stirring is he is it the overhang that causes the proximity because otherwise other than the overhang it it falls within their footprint. So it's the whole deck. It's it is on their footprint. That's right. But it's within 21 feet of my bedrooms and bathrooms. Thank you, sir. Any other raised hands? Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam, chair, may I be allowed to respond to any of the. Sure. Please. Thank you so much. If we could just go to the first page of the presentation and zoom on on the photograph that from the satellite, you'll see that. Most of the neighboring houses, including the director of butter have. Have also existing roof decks. So. Are you talking about the first page that can we scroll to the first page? Yeah, that that photo. You're going. Yeah, that image right there in the middle of the page to the bottom right. You'll see that it's a satellite view and you'll see that neighboring properties also have roof decks. So this is in context of existing situations. Similar. Similar situations with roof decks. So I would argue that anybody can start about a roof deck being near the property already has roof decks and other property. Okay. Thank you. Would that man have a motion? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the deck for print. Is is relocated in a way that eliminates the overhang, but not for a BPD design review, just a proviso to eliminate the overhang. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. Chair also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you so much. Next we have case. The away one five four two four two six with the address of 82 Washington Street. Is the applicant and other representative. I'm chair members of the board. My name is attorney Patrick Sweeney with an address of two six one main street child's town. I'm here tonight representing Paul Ren, you know, and over 82 Washington Street. We're seeking to enlarge dorms that are on the front in the rear of this property. We can't go down to think it's a sixth page. You will see a rendering. Keep doing it. A21. There we are. So on the left is the existing. And on the right is the proposed. If we can scroll down yet again. You can see the rear. The existing on the left that proposed on the right. The rear of this property overlooks root the fedab. One of the property overlooks the child's down skating right. The two violations. Height and. New structure restrictions with respect to the height. I know that we are not increasing the actual height of the building. The building is now 38 feet. And however, the dorm is around that 35 four inches in 36 six inches. So that generates the height violation. Obviously we're changing the roof line. So there is the. Structure restrictions. This is Mr. Ren's home for the last 20 years. And he expects for the next one years. And he wants to push the department forward. And so that's, that's the plan. If there's any questions. I'm available. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, madam chair hearing none may have public testimony. Madam chair members of the board. Sean Brain with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The button is meaning was held for 82 Washington Street. and that in opposition with that we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Any other raise hands. Okay. Sorry. I'm chair. I like to put forward a motion of approval with the provisional that the plans be submitted to the Department of Parks and Recreation for review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Brasza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case to be away. 145. We have four. Four. Four. Eight. What the address of three. 32 to three. 40. Some. Summer Street. The applicant and all the representatives present. They explain the case to the board, please. Good afternoon. My name is Chris Kennedy. Kennedy Law Office at 132 Lincoln Street, Boston. I'm here to represent back South and carriage LLC. The applicant seeks to continue to use the premises as public parking lot for fee passing 40 vehicles. Till December 31st, 2026. I think I've. Sent as much information as I could. To the board. Supporting. This appeal. And. Just want to say I've been employed by the applicant for various capacities since 1976. I'm familiar with this lot. The applicant is doing everything we can to maintain a safe. And clean lot. And it's a year round endeavor. The applicant's been doing it for decades throughout the city. We've expressed cooperation with the. Footpoint neighborhood association. And. Been ongoing and. Working with them to. We've. And. I've. I've. We've been eliminated semi-negraffee. That. The F.P. NA has pointed out. There's more I think that needs to be removed, which we will. Gladly attempt to do. And there's also an issue with the. in the landscaping, which we have tried to remedy, and will continue to do, whether when the weather cooperates. Other than that, we are willing to maintain the continuity with the neighborhood and offer necessary parking for that neighborhood. And we'll have a needs to be addressed. We will continue to work with the neighborhood. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions, but the PPDA did comment that they would like to ensure that there's adequate screening from the public way. And my question is to the person who was just speaking. So you've made strides to take care of the things that the neighborhood association has pointed out. Yes. And the screening with plants is one of the major issues. And I think that was formally done in 2020. There was a new fence put in, a metal edge, ridge, the planting bed, and it can be improved, I agree. And we'll try to do that. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there public testimony? Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board. Lydia Polaski with the Marist Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butters meeting was hosted on January 25th, 2024, in regards to three, three, two, two, three, fourty summer street. During that time, a butters and the Fort Point neighborhood association raised concerns about the planting and maintenance of a landscape buffer. Parking standards on the lot, litter and mitigation of graffiti. The general concern related to ongoing requests of the applicant, relating to ongoing requests of the applicant is to basically bring the parcel up to neighborhood standard and expectations. The Fort Point neighborhood association feels there is not enough evidence of progress to date. The applicant has exchanged emails to respond to concerns this week in an effort to remedy points raised by the neighborhood. At this time, our office would like to defer to the judgment board. Thank you. Lydia, can you clarify what they mean by bringing it up to the standards of the neighborhood? Are you, are they referring to the graffiti and the landscaping or additional items? So the Fort Point neighborhood association and the folks on the call, there was a specific punch list of items that were outlined to bring the lot up to, I think what's happening in the neighborhood especially in white is, you're seeing a lot of, you know, developments and the city forward is kind of coming up to a certain standard. I think that it butters just wanted to see more of the same from this, the slot graffiti was definitely of concern. Thank you. Thanks. Laura. Hi, good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Laura from Consulate's office at this moment. Consulate, we would like to go and record an opposition. Thank you. Laura, I'm going to make you a panelist and I have no additional raise hands, Madam Chair. With the applicant like to respond to those concerns. Sure. And how to program it, I guess is maybe the better comment question. Yeah, well, I'm pretty sure that extra mulch and maybe new plants can be put in. I did exchange it email with Mr. Reed, who is part of the point neighborhood association. And he's mentioned that and I might have forwarded to you, CC the email. He was willing to wait until May to eliminate some of the remaining. Hard to get to graffiti, which we're willing to do. We did eliminate one spot that's prominently on the bus and warthrood and some street wall abutment. We. Also have. Again, um. Plants that can certainly remedy the situation. And that's and it should be an easy fix. And we'll do anything we can to. To satisfy that and we've been willing to do that. It shouldn't be an issue. Thank you. All right. Thank you. I think we've heard enough. May I have a motion? I'm chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a proviso that the project undergoes BPD design review for site plan. And which the applicant can provide new screening and landscaping to the property. And this is the case that. The. This is the bridge. Yes. It's better browser. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Terrific. Thank you so much. Next week. I have. One five five. Four three eight six. We're the address of five fifteen East, first street. If the applicant will represent present there's one. My name is Karen. I recently signed a lease for a space on five fifteen East, first street. changed from commercial to a nail studio. I'll just be moving in mobile furniture and there won't be any construction done. Any questions from the board? None is pre-shared for hearing none may I have public testimony. Hello Madam Chair, members of the board of the committee with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butters meeting was hosted on February 7th, 2024, during which time attendees were generally supportive of the proposal. Our office has since received one letter of support from an butter. At this time, our office is unaware of any concerns with this application. We would like to refer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Sorry, the answer I didn't. Thank you. Laura, that is for Council. First up is at this time the council would like to go record and support this proposal. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. No raise chance, Madam Chair. Thank you. Hey, was that man have motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to move forward motion approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This is better browser. Yes. Sure votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next we have case B.O.A. 156. 8243. With the address of 36 to 42 West Broadway. If the applicant and or their representative president is explained to the board. Thank you. Thank you. This is our second. You can leave the madam chair, members of the board. Turning Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Quilty, Miller, Hany Lee. 28 States Street, and Boston. Here on behalf of the appellant property owner. With me tonight is Derek Rubanath, who is our project architect. In Jennifer Engelheart from the property ownership who's on. the existing basement of this existing mix use building on West Broadway. And so Boston, there's no new work to be done. This martial arts studio has been there for over a decade. I think what happened was there was an original permit back in 2011. That somehow got abandoned and never followed through for this occupancy. And so we're here today asking for approval of this longstanding occupancy for this fitness use in building. We did receive an ISD violation, notifying the property owner of this issue. And that's why we're here today to remedy that dilation for failure to close out that permit from again 10 plus years ago. So we're just looking to confirm an occupancy with the board here tonight. Happy. Thank you. Any questions? But thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, Madam Chair. So this will basically there be no construction, no change to the footprints. Absolutely not. Yeah, Mr. Stember just correct. This is there now. It's been there for 10 years. There's no changes. There's no changes to anything at all. It's literally just making sure that the records at ISD are up to what's actually happening in the building. Thanks. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Madam Chair, I'm Lydia Plasti with the Maris Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant notified the neighborhood of the proposal through flyers and or mailers to a butters. No of butters meeting was hosted in regards to this matter. The West Broadway Neighborhood Association supports this proposal. At this time, our office is unaware of any concern with this application. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board at this time, Councilor Fing will like to go and record this proposal. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you with that. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion approval. Madam Second. Second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Betaprasa. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B081573788 with the address of 417 to 423C, West Broadway. The applicant and who are the representatives present? Would they explain to the board to them? Yes. Again, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nix Azula, McDermick-Wolte-Miller and Hamlet, 28 State Street in Boston, here on behalf of B-Tone Fitness with me tonight is MJ Margaret Jackson from B-Tone. They are a locally female-owned boutique fitness center. And that is used. They hold good classes primarily geared towards women. They are looking to relocate and expand from their existing location, literally directly across the street at 416 to 418 West Broadway, which is at the corner of F Street. They've been there for about five years at this location across the street. They're looking to move to this location. It's slightly bigger, which is part of the reason for the move. It's about 450 square feet bigger. There's already a dance studio in the building. It's an existing, this is an existing mix-use building. This would be above the CVS for those of you who are familiar with the area. So it is formally an office space. So requires zoning elite with this location, just like it did at the original location five years ago, which obviously this board granted, or a previous membership of this board granted a few years ago. But all the same hours, all the same operations, classes, et cetera, as they have successfully operated for five years across the street. So again, similar to the other one, just looking to ask for occupancy here. This is a new use versus the previous matter, which is an existing use, but similar scenarios, while where there's no exterior work to be done, nothing to the envelope of the building just interior fit out. As you can see here on the screen for this fitness use. So happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, it's pretty straightforward. Well, that may be a public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board, Lydia Plasty, with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butters meeting was hosted on February 7th, 2024, during which time the proposal was generally well received. At this time, our office is unaware of any concerns with this application. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Laura Tulley, Donna from COSOPH. As office at this moment, he would like to go record full support of this proposal. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have three stands. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put a motion for approval. Wait a second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bader Brasov. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. I tried to give you two easy ones. Come here, Donna. I think we appreciate it. I tried to do that on Tuesday too, please. I got one easy one too. I'll thank you, Madam Chair. Have a good night. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 157 3885. With the address of 18 pawn circle. If the applicant and the representative present, may explain to the board, please. Yes. Good evening, Luis and Bella. Madam Chair, members of the board. I am here on behalf of Richard Anella, the owner of a single family home in Jamaica, playing at 18 pawn circle. Can you speak up? I can't. Can you speak up, Mr. Santana? Is it better now? Yeah. Yeah. Again, I am here on behalf of Richard Anella, the owner of the single family residence at 18 pawn circle. The proposed project is in violation of the floor area ratio. We are slightly over the minimum, the maximum. I'm sorry. And we are proposing to add a shed over the real and the property, which is about 27 feet in length. And two doorworks on the front of the door, the two gave us that are about eight feet in width. And the project complies with all the old, the mission requirements side the earth, for the real yard and building height. This is this area, the attic space would be used for an additional bedroom and a bathroom. Just the visual for that is half of the attic space under the second floor has an elevated ceiling height. And that limits the access to it. So the owner decided to finish this that out on the left side. And that accounts for about three hundred, just a slight from the 391 square feet in area. The area on the right, as you can see from this plant, for the proposed attic land, that's all in the ceiling. Right, for the second floor has been elevated. Although at that, the building elevations for the next plant will show you the two cables in general, about eight feet in width on the front of the building. And in the rear again, that is about 27 feet in length. There would be a bathroom and the stairs that access the attic space has been modified in order to comply with the corner frames for the tractor risers, minimum emissions. Other than that, that summarizes the project. If you have any questions, then we'll be happy to ask you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions at all. May I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor is announcing to refer to the judge with this board some background of the information in the community process. ONS hosted a butters meeting, which was described as positive. After that meeting, we did receive one letter in support and one letter in opposition. Opposition letter was from direct to butter who expressed concerns regarding the balcony potential loss of privacy. The applicant went on to meet with the Jamaica Hills Association, which voted not to oppose the proposal, and then onto the JPMC zoning committee, which voted in favor of the proposal. That information will refer to the board at this time. I should have copies of both of those letters. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Newman. Can I have any other reasons? Nope, I have no additional reasons, Tans. Would the applicant like to respond before we take a vote? I just want to thank everybody for participating in this process. I'm doing this really for, I've lived in the neighborhood, my family has for 65 years. My brothers is my neighbor. My children grew up in the neighborhood, and I'm really doing this because of the high cost of housing in the city of Boston. And my hope in my dream would be someday one of my girls would want to live in the house. And then closing, I want to thank my neighbors. I believe that every neighbor supported me, either verbally or written every own or occupant. I should say, except the one. And I really don't see much disagreement with that person. They actually were pretty neutral. And thank you very much. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Yes, Madam Chair, I find this project to be a very modest addition. And with that, I'm going to put for a motion of disapproval. Of approval, correct? Correct. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stemberg. Yes. Mr. Berberasa. Yes. There are votes. Yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 151-838-0. With the address of 104 Charles Street. It's the applicant. And what they're representing with his brother is the local board. Yes, full of the record. Marinsus DeCara 175 Federal Street. With me is Dr. Teresa Spalain, one of the owners of the property. And Chris Hossford, who is the architect. This is a property which was converted to residential use about 40 years ago. And Dr. Spalain and Mr. Nemzow now want to change the property. There have been numerous discussions with the neighbors. Significant changes have been made since the original plans were filed, which Chris Hossford will review. And we made it through the neighborhood process in Jamaica plane and got an anonymous vote from the zoning committee of the neighborhood council. Chris, you want to review the changes to the plans? Sure. Am I able to share my screen? No, what you submitted is what we have. So we had gone through a public process numerous neighbor meetings and then JPMDC. And there were significant changes from this plan to what was approved at Jamaica, the JPMDC. So we don't have your most current plans then. Apparently not. They were never transferred. I don't know. And would you be. So here's the site plan is the locations of what you're proposing the same or has it changed? So basically, if you look at the site plan, the proposed single story edition on the left has been removed. OK, perfect. That no longer exists. Got it. OK, so I would recommend Madam Chair, a motion of deferral. We can see those. These drawings, because that might change a lot the BPD's recommendation, which literally focuses on that structure. I would agree with that. May I have a motion? I like to put forward motion deferral. Is there a second? So how do we get those plans to you? Because we need to vote first. Let us vote. And then the staff can help you with that. So Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Betar-Barraza. Yes. Sure, also votes yes. The motion carries. So please, yeah, work with the ISD staff to make sure that you're providing the most updated plans. Just a note, Madam Chair. May 16th is available. OK. Does that work for the applicant? Yes. Thank you. There was me. Next, we have Kate Bioe, 152, 162, 2.4. With the address of 379 to 381 Blue Hill Avenue. It's the applicant and the way they represent it was further. They explained the reward place. Yes. Antonio Lepe, the new owner of La Cuchera restaurant is here. And Jack Bruno, I work with him. And we're here to remove a proviso from La Cuchera restaurant and grant the proviso to the new owner, Antonio, who purchased the property in August of 2023. Or purchased a restaurant, I should say. Any changes to the interior exterior or just the proviso? There were no changes whatsoever, just the proviso to the new owner. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honor new and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services related to deferred to the adjustment of this board at this time. Run aware of any concerns regarding this proposal. I will defer to the board. Thank you. May I have a motion? Okay, not approval. Yeah, the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. It's better brazo. Yes. Sure, also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 155 4816, which is the address of 410 Minon Street. The applicant and the representative's present. They're splintering board votes. Hi, can you raise your hand if you're on for this proposal? Oh, yeah, I see Amanda. I'm going to make you a panelist, Amanda. You can just unmute yourself once you change statuses. Can you hear us? Yes, can you hear me? Yes, go ahead. Yes, okay, great. Yeah, so we just need to update the occupancy of this space. This building at 10 Minutes Street is part of Harbor Health Services. Our Health Center, Daniel Dreskel, Nuponset Health Center is right across the street. And we have been operating our food pantry out of the 398 Nuponset Avenue location up until we actually moved locations in 2019. But something happened with our application, our original application. And we never got through the final steps to get the address updated to the 10 Minutes Street. And we had for the last couple of years an inspector when they came to inspect our food pantry space, inspected the 10 Minutes Street space. So it has already been inspected, but I guess the occupancy just needs to be updated. There's we're not planning on changing anything about the building. All right, thank you. Questions from the board. No. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, comment on anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. It's time the mayor's office like deferred to the judge in this board. Are we the applicant circulate flyers to a butters within 300 feet? I would do not hear any concerns from those butters without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And I have to raise hands. Well, that may have a motion. Madam Chair, I like to put forward motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Brasa. Yes. Chair also. Yes, motion carries. Next we have case B.O.A. 1575041. With the address of the 4046R. Checker top of the street. If you have a chance. Turn the door. If you have a chance. It's your. It's here. That's me. I jumped the gun. I'm sorry. No. OK. Good. Proceed. Game. Jim. My name is James Christopher of six six architects with the business address 10 for its road and brain tree. I hear it tonight on behalf of element. Who is the homeowner of 46 are ticket to a top it street. Proposal is to construct a frontside entry. the little doghouse to the right of the front porch to create direct access into the existing basement. It's not living space in the basement. It's storage, laundry room and that sort of stuff, but this would allow the homeowner some yard storage space and that sort of stuff. The only violation is the extension of a nonconforming use. We held it a butters meeting, the project was supported. We went to the Poxhels Civic Association, the project was well received there as well. With that, I'll happily answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's Office like deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation of a butters meeting was held, no concerns were raised in that meeting. They went on to meet the Poxhels Civic Association, no concerns as well. Many feeling this project's proposal was very diminuous. With that, it deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion approval. Madam, second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This is better browser. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B-O-A 152 9077 with the address of 162 to 164 Fairmont Street. The applicant's the end of the representative's present. Very exciting, please. Hello. Yes, sir. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is the homeowner William Evans. We are trying to create a living space up in our attic. And right now, I think it exceeds the livable space, allowable space of living space. So we're trying to get a variance to approve this job. We have talk to the neighbors, talk to the comments where neighborhood association and got approval from all of them looking for approval from the chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Very hearing none. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office deferred to the judgment that this board are office previously hosted in the butters beneath for this where the applicant worked with neighbors. They went on to the Codland Square Civic Association and can confirm that group voted to support this proposal and submitted a letter, which we afforded it to the board without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. This is better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. First, this case, BOA 156 6 2 7 0. With the address of 14 Woodfield Street. Along with that, we have case BOA 156 4 9 5 1. With the address of 16, it feels. If the applicant and the other representative's president they explain please. Yes. Hi. Good evening, everyone. Good evening, board members. I should say. So we are hoping we're looking for permission to subdivide this lot into two separate parcels and to change the applicant's occupancy. Excuse me. From one single family to two single family dwellings. Would permission from the board please. Great. Are there questions from the board? All right. Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board. The call on our Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office took deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process. We had the applicant circulate of fire to a bottle of split in 300 feet. We did not hear any concerns from them. And we're unaware of any concerns at this time. They went on to meet with the Talbot Norfolk Triangle, which voted to support this proposal from where I understand it. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. We have no raised hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion for the two projects. And it would be for approval. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Is better Brasma? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA. 156, 4366. The address of 32 Laurie Avenue. The applicant is and all the representatives present. There is blank. Please. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Yeah, this is Biplob. I don't know why we cannot see that video. OK, OK. This is Biplob. This I'm from 32 Laurie Avenue. West Rott's very with me. My wife Rita is there as well as my architect. Mr. Harry is here. Harold McConaugal, architect. 103 Keystone Street, West Rott's premise. And we have been a resident of Boston for the last 30 years. And at 32 Laurie Avenue, West Rott's very almost 17 years. It is a colonial house with living area 1428. Square feet, three bedroom on the second floor. And kitchen dining living on the first floor. As we are approaching retirement age, and it is sometimes difficult to climb the staircase, we'd like to have one additional bedroom on the first floor. Decide that we now have extended family as my daughter got married and visit sometimes. This makes us to think for the extension of our house to the first floor. We'd like to add one bedroom with a netted bath and remodel kitchen. We'll be an addition of 448 square feet as architect plan. As you can see in the survey plot, that we'll be extending 16 feet. But still, we'll have a 19 to 20 backyard. And particularly, I got a several support later for my neighbors. Almost eight letters. I submitted that. And WRMC was talking about in a neighborhood community. They approved my plan. And again, thank you for the other consideration. Thank you. Questions from the board? I don't have any questions, but just reading the BPDAs, comments regarding kind of an alignment with precedents in regards to rear death. And what would be your, what's your rear yard set back with your proposal? It's just short of 20 feet, 19 plus 19. OK. And what's required? I think it's 30. I'm not sure. OK. So you would have 19 feet until you reach your neighboring property. Yes. Which is in a rear, it seems like it's to kind of a driveway. Yeah, we are. It is a corner a lot. Yeah, it's in the corner a lot. This is a driveway. It's not facing kind of open space. No. OK. Great. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Yeah. Just to add to that, Ms. Ben Brasem, the BPDA notes do also indicate that other rear yard depths, while not as significant are not off by much. So like 24 feet as an example. So I don't know if the applicant or their architect has any insight into that as well as far as a budding nearby properties. No, you didn't do any research into that. OK. All right. Thank you. Was that man a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office is referred to the judge from this board. I'll leave the app conservative flyer to a butters within 300 feet. No concerns were raised. As he mentioned, many neighbors were supportive and wrote letters. He went on to meet with the West Roxbury Neighborhood Council on March 19th. Two of butters were in attendance and spoke in support of the project. I'll ultimately voted eight to zero in support of this project. As I mentioned, we're unaware of any concerns. This time, I'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. We have no way. Thanks. Was that man a motion? Madam Chair, I think if it's going to keep this family here to stay for the long run, I would like to support the project and perform a motion of approval. Is there a second? Third. Mr. Snumberidge. Yes. Ms. Betapraza. Yes. Chair also votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Done. And next we have case B-O-A-156-3736. With the address of 210 North Harvard Street. If the applicant and nor their representative spread it, will their respondents and board employees? Good evening. Good evening. Right. You've got the drawings. My name is Campbell Ellsworth. I am the architect for, yeah, that's the one. Thank you so much. I'm the architect for the owners of the Sofra Bakery, which is currently in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The building that you see here on the site plan is a Harvard-owned building. It's a single story masonry building. It's about 5,000 square feet interior space. It is at the corner of North Harvard and Bertrand Street. The entrance to this building is right at that corner. My clients have entered into a lease with Harvard. Harvard did a significant amount of work in this building already in terms of primarily upgrading HVAC, site drainage, electrical service, et cetera. And they then handed over the building to my clients and their builder. The layout, well, we are here before you to request a variant. So on this drawing, you will see in that blue bubble is the request to install a walk-in cooler as is needed for the proper operation of this bakery and cafe. I just point out there is an odd provision in the zoning ordinance that says that on a corner lot, the owner, in this case, Harvard may choose which street frontage they choose to use as, quote, the front. And in fact, in the construction work and the modifications that Harvard performed, they in fact did that. They chose that Bertrand Street on the top of the drawing would in fact be the front. Well, in fact, they did not expand the footprint. So that issue of front side, side rear never came up with the Harvard renovation. When my client took over the building and we applied for building permits, we followed suit and requested that Bertrand Street be considered the front. In this case, in this zone, the side setback requirements are in fact zero so that our walk-in cooler, which you conceived in that bubbled area, would have complied. Well, in fact, when we got to the building department and we worked with the wonderful plans, examiner, Jordi Segalas Perez, he informed me and my client that in fact, the north Harvard street side would in fact need to be considered the front, therefore, where we proposed the cooler was the rear and therefore we would be in violation. And that's why we're here before you today. So can I ask a quick question? Yes, absolutely. So has there been any dimensional change to this project or are these preexisting conditions? Absolutely preexisting. You can see it on the, yeah, absolutely preexisting. Thank you. So adding the cooler is not adding space. It's interior that was, you know, the space was already there. That's correct. Yes, I mean, it's a, it's a, technically, but I think in terms of GFA, I think we were still compliant. We are not expanding the footprint of the building itself to house people, but this is effectively a mechanical space that we're looking to, looking to add, excuse me, sorry for that. Okay. So are there other questions from the board? But it is a new, it is a new addition is just consider mechanical. It is, that's correct. It is considered mechanical. Yeah. So just just for clarification, so the north harbors tree, because of the front entry, that's your address, correct. And that's why I was considered a front. I believe so. Yes, 40. Yes. IZ has made these clerical errors. So I completely understand your request. I don't have any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the mayor's office could defer to the judge from this board. The applicant circulated a flyer to a blotters within 300 feet as a part of their application for licensing as well. They went on to meet with the Austin Civic Association, where many of the butters are also members of that civic. The civic voter to approve. Some of the butters did have questions regarding how allows the outdoor, the walk in refrigerator would be and without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Do you have a raise hand? Yep, Paul, go ahead. Yeah. Yes, excuse me. Thank you. Good evening, everyone. I'm Paula Alexander. And my home, I'm a home owner, occupied home owner at 210 North Havid Street in Austin. And so I'm on the corner of North Havid and Kingsley Street, which is one shop block away from Bertram Street. Excuse me. So the butters that are very, very close to this three. These are do have some major concerns about the noise level because we assume that the the cooling equipment will be running 24 seven. Now their backyards are really close to this unit. I mean, the closest unit is probably about less than 20 feet up to 50 feet from the nearest a butter. Excuse me. We so this this freezer is a separate unit from the building. I want to be sure you want to stand that. It's not in the building actually. So at one point, the bakery said that they would try and fit the freezer in the loading dark. Uh, side, which is which it which is entered from Bertram Street rather than the parking lot and North Havid Street. We also asked what the noise level will be and which side of the freezer will be accent will the employees be have access. So would the employees be outside taking a smoking break? Are they going to be around the freezer? We also ask for additional insulation or something to quiet the freezer down. There is a huge pine tree on the business school, have a business school parking lot that's also in about a to this property. And we'd like to ask Harvard to prune the tree and make sure it's it's protected and kept healthy for for a long time to help buffer the noise. And we'd like to see some other plantings also around the parking lot area. On the diagram, they showed, you know, a parking for 10 cars, but they want to put outside seating out there. So I don't think there's going to be any space in the nice weather for packing. So so those are those are our concerns and all of my butter, about as the loaks, the gizmons, the no itons, the elevators and the broslands that we all have those concerns. So I hope that you can have no additional raise hands. I have a question. Are you you're not proposing to parking spaces, right? Parking nine and park in 10. That's the applicant. Are you? Yeah. Yes. So the requirement of this commercial and retail use required 10 spaces. And if you look again, are you able to bring that? Yeah. But so this application is not only for the exterior cooler. You're also requesting. How many additional parking spaces to already what you have been given as an allowed? Our requirement. I have a feeling our requirement is 10 spaces and you can see the way that those are laid out. So if you see the box of the building on the bottom left, that is a, which is right on north harbor. That's a proposed outside seating area that did not trigger any zoning requirements. And then moving to the right. We have six spots. Another one that's tucked in right sort of angled almost 90 degrees. Behind that cooler and there is an exterior storage area. And then there would be two additional spaces off the Bertram Street, which would sort of hug the delivery access to. Right. You have you have existing six parking spaces and you're in this, in this proposal, you're asking for three additional parking spaces. Yes. I guess we're looking at at the Google image. You have six, which I think one seems like it's a handicap accessible. It's not noted in the site plan. Yeah, let me. So I have a question for Madam chair. Did we get any BPD feedback because I didn't, I didn't receive one. I don't have any from them either. OK. And ask just the so I just want to add because I can't remember Mr. Newman also identified or stay talked about Austin Civic Association's position. So I just want to have make sure we are aware of that as well because they do also mention they are in support of the project, but also asked that the steps be taken to ensure noise abatement occurs. So take of all mechanical parts and public safety, etc. So I just want in case the applicant is also unaware of that, that this the issue that the butter just mentioned was also echoed in this letter from Austin Civic Association. And I don't know what you're. So how are you planning to adjust those noise issues from the coolers? Are they, you know, are there any like what, you know, etc. Yes. Thank you. The we've been informed by the provider of that walking cooler that the compressor that will be cooling that walk in cooler and freezer can be located anywhere relative to that cooler. We were proposing that we push that cooling equipment, the compressor equipment as far away from that southern those southern properties as possible, meaning. So the cooler itself is approximately 29 or 30 29 or 30 feet 29 meant we're 28 feet from those back property lines. So it's not 20 feet. That's to the that's to the closest edge of the cooler itself moving north. The cooler will be approximately 20, excuse me, 22 feet. So we will the back end of the cooler or the north end will be approximately 50 feet from the closest residential property. And we are able to put the compressor equipment at the very north end of that cooler. So approximately 48 to 50 feet away from the closest residential property. So to answer your question about how do we address noise issues? It is by putting the compressor as far away from those residential areas as possible. We've also been told that this compressor is is very, very quiet. I don't have decibel ratings on that, but it is, you know, they make them extremely efficient these days and it should not provide any nuisance to those southern residential neighbors. And if we find out that it is of any concern, yes, we can erect some sort of screening, some sort of acoustical screening between that equipment and those residential neighbors. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? One more question we're going to clarification on your drawings. It literally says that the project was submitted and improved with the exception of the walking cooler. Is it also fair to say that you're also requesting those additional parking spaces? No. So those spaces has been pre-approved. Yes. Okay, so we're only looking at the extra cooler. We're looking at the cooler and the request for that 6.1 feet from that right hand property line that is perpendicular to Bertrand Street. Right, that your side yard violation. That's correct. Right. Okay. So I just want to clarification that we're not approving the parking spaces, but only the side yard setback. That is correct. That is my understanding. Is that what you have as well on record that that's what is being requested just because I don't have the BPD is recommendation in front of me. As far as I can see, I don't see any mention of our business. Okay. So with that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. This better browser. Yes. The chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. I have a good night. Yes. Have a good evening. Thank you so much.