 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you one lot at 13,893 square feet. We go to the next slide, please. This just shows you those two lots of the composition of the two lots trees behind us on the Gordon Street and then sort of the mix of housing style on Cambridge Street. We're proposing to erect a four-story residential condominium building with 19 residential units in 12 parking spaces. This would be a condo-build for sale. This project would include three affordable units, which would bring this over 16% affordability on the project. This particular zoning district is a 3F-4000 just to go quickly to go to the next slide. And these are just some more front renderings. As you can see, there is a garage entrance along the, be created along Cambridge Street. There is an existing curb cut already on the property we've shifted. So we're not taking anything away from street parking. There is a bus stop directly in front of this building. We go to the next slide, please. Maybe inconvenient for computers. One thing we did at is work through design, some venturing outside, all kinds of greenery street trees, which are missing from this location now. We also have direct access to a bike room. So we have 23 bike parking spaces with a bike repair station that enters right onto Cambridge Street from the ground level. We also have 12 parking spaces that would go with these units on the ground level as well. If we go to the next slide, please. Just to give you a quick unit breakdown, we have 7 one bedrooms, 1 1 1 and a half bed, and then 11 two bedroom units. Our affordable units are contained two beds and 1 one bedroom unit. And those are at 100% AMI, 280% AMI. As you can see here, just we have that complete street sidewalk that has an area for walking, for pedestrian access, as well as the sitting area and vegetation. If we go to the next slide, please. The building was designed to have almost a 30 foot rare setback. We have a lot of green space we agreed to keep almost all of the trees on the property as well. We also have this green roof feature, which is going to have solar panels and a whole energy efficiency water system within the building. Because we developed this project as we work with the ACA and the AIA to develop full energy efficiency and sustainability features, which we have a slide at the very end that we explained. Just to go over the interior of the first floor, we go to the next slide. We'll house the bike room and repair station, an interior trash area, the 12 parking spaces, including one handicap space, and then one unit. So this will also house one one bedroom unit which would have direct access to sort of figuring that ground floor for residential use along Cambridge Street. Next, this is the show's for that area, sort of a common on for the residents. Then we just get into the floor plans. The second floor has six units, third floor has six units, and fourth floor has six units. The roof, of the, of the, we'll have a roof deck on it as well with two stairwells, elevator, hatch. I have a really on here as well, the empty concerns, questions. The floor may have the other next slides, please. Just to go over the anticipated zoning violations that were cited, this is 3M district, although there at least one, two, three, four, five, six, seven projects, right within walking distance that are multi-family residential between 28 and 30 and 40 units. So we were cited for MFR, FBI, we had to be scaled down this project and working with the community took off about 1500 square feet. We're down to 1.43, FAR. Point eight is what's allowed, so we wouldn't be required to have use variance. For height, we tried to really reduce the height everywhere we could, at 42 feet, five inches, and all of our best with all of our parking and bike room on that ground level in the unit. Use of the open space, at 439 square feet, 650 would be required. And then side yard, we would need it feet to lot line, but because it goes by structure in this area as well, we're seventh feet point eight and would be required. Parking, we have 12 parking spaces and 38 spaces would be required, but we're also right along that bus line as well, feet are the next slide please. And then this just shows you from the contours of the lot, we could go to the very last slide, that would be helpful. This just shows you the interior of the building and the elevations, which I went on with, is a strange flow, as you can see, this is the sustainability slide. So as we worked with the community energy efficiency was the top priority on the affordability, which this slide really breaks down to the board and can see, you know, from solar panels to installations through our water charge system underneath. At this time, I can pause and also, as I had mentioned, have really lead us to answering questions. Well, thank you. Any questions on the plans, Mr. Collins? Well, the plans are adequate. Thank you. Any questions? Did you just think of those large roof structures? Do they really need to be that large? Mr. Nato, do you mean the actual roof deck itself? No, the structures on the roof deck. So one's an elevator. I'll let William, if you could attest to the design. Absolutely. We've, through the community process, tried to reduce those head houses as much as possible. In earlier, rendering, as you can see, the left, smaller head house has a sloped roof that follows the pitch of the stairs to keep it as low as possible. The one with the elevator does buy code require an airlock, which is as small as possible, as allowed by code. We have, we have, we have made every effort we possibly could to reduce them as much as we can. We also pulled the roof deck itself to be in the back and center of the building. So wasn't here any of our butters. Are they visible from the street? Minimally, if you go to some of the earlier renderings, you can, I think, get some peaks of them, but they're not, they're not prominent. They're set a pretty good way back from Cambridge Street. So they're not, they're not very visible. And as we worked with this is a good picture of it, as we worked with our, with the Seneca Association, the audit committee process, having this green roof feature was, was really important to them as well. So we tried to incorporate those comments to make the green roof solar panels, greenery up there, sustainability, but also pull it back as much as we could. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Well, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, no? I'm just forgiving. We do have letters of support and an often M1 of opposition also. Thank you. We'll take public testimony. Yes, good afternoon Chair, members of the board, Frank Mendoza here at Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Just here to testify by the app and did go through community engagement process and got the support, both the Brighton-Alston Improvement Association and the All-Sensive Association, both of whose leaders I'm answering are here to testify to that as well. With that said, we defer as always to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Madame Chair. I have six raised families. Let's start with, uh, go for it. Okay. Lena, you've been unmuted because they can even adjust for the record, please. Hi, my name is Linda Curtis and I'm a tenant at 582 Cambridge Street. I'm in opposition of the project because I think it's not what the community needs at this time. I think the Allston community really needs an opportunity to continue to build and come together and a project like this will really only cause disruption at a time that is really vital for people to stay in contact and not continue to be isolated. Really on the site right now, what we have is a building that has three units, three bedrooms each and there isn't a vacant lot. It's actually like a really beautiful, sprawling hill with trees on it that could be mobilized for community space and I think that if we all work together if the City of Boston worked together to mobilize that community space, if the tenants work together with the homeowners, there would be a way that we could keep the building for affordable housing and that we could make that green space more accessible instead of causing the disruption through the construction that would affect neighbors and local businesses. Thank you, Lena. Thank you, Lena. All right. Anthony, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and adjust for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. In members of the committee, Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association, we would like to go on record and support. There was initial opposition when it was introduced as a rental car care. There were concerns expressed by director Partis as well, but the proponents, I think, made a wise decision to switch to condominiums up and in by his opposition, as well as working with the director Partis to alleviate any concerns that they may have. So we would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Lauren, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and adjust for the record, please. Please add new information as well. Frances, can I have a ballot? Can I have a ballot? You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and adjust for the record, please? Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, with Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record and support the permanent support once they change their home ownership. The more homeownership is very important. We would like designing new, mature with the greenery outside is pet and a little bit of the character of the neighborhood is kept with the building. The new building. Thank you. Later. Laura? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Any minute. I just put that record. All right. Yes. My name is Laura Mayor and my husband and I own number 39 Gordon Street, which is directly to the east of the property at 5.82. So we are a three family and we massively benefit by the beautiful green space that is behind the house, including a massive oak tree that is over 100 years old. Sorry, it's a main ball. It provides a huge amount of shade and there are a number of mature trees that are along the west side of the extension property that is in question at this point, including a huge number of mature shrubs and as Lena point out, a beautiful sloping green space in this very quiet part of Austin. This project would totally change the character of personally just where my husband and I lived, but of this neighborhood for quite a period of time, much too much, many too many people in one building in a neighborhood where it's three families. It's just an enormous project and especially the removal of, I know you want to get on and understand the trees and I will ask the heat island that is going to be next door to our property and significant parking issues. And then while this is not anybody's concern right now, the demolition of that building which probably contains asbestos is a concern of ours as well. So thank you. Thank you. Christine, you've been unmuted. Christine, you've been unmuted. Thank you. Hello. Hello, my name is Christine Hex. I am a resident that 582 Cambridge Street and I just want to speak in honestly, please add new information Christine. We've already heard from your two neighbors. Thank you. Okay. I just want to go on the record and say that I am in opposition with us. Okay, we'll take one more, Frances. My north, go ahead. You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and I'll just put it back in please. Thank you, Bella. I'm a manager. Remember, so the four minor progress here, percent of the carpenters union. We just like to add probably comments of Ms. Annabella Gomes and just a thorough. This is a good project and we're full support. Thank you. Thank you. Is Mr. Hampton still on or did you need to I know he had to step away at some point? No, Madam Chair, we're still here. Thank you. Jeff Henson planning and passing planning development agency. We recommend this one through our article lady process through our board and I believe the board was given a copy of the board memo. We would like to recommend approval with continuing design review. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Dregel, can you address the issues raised the concerns around the macho trees and you know landscaping heat island? Right, so we actually can choose to agree to keep the trees and we think we can keep all of them all along the garden. But along with that, the building that's there now, it's a dated building, but it's set so far out it doesn't meet ADA standards. There's no way to build on it. The majority of the lawn is the empty parcels. Separate city parcel, taxable parcel, it's model home space, it doesn't go with the other lawn. As we worked with the neighborhood and the neighborhood groups, we actually scaled the project down. We were in the 23 unit range, brought that down, included the bike room, all kinds of the amenity features. So we really tried to work this and our building is actually pulled away 27 feet in the middle of the waters and the back and it's a slow tail. So you're really because of that step back, you're really not looking at a building, you'd be looking at above the building if you were in the rear. But we will continue to work with all of our neighbors on landscape design. Obviously, we really want this to be a building that folks can enjoy and use public transportation and have on these green feature amenities within it as well. Thank you. Please do because that's clearly a concern from your owners. Any other questions or concerns from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to approve with the PDA design review. Second, aye. Thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Olivier. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case number B-O-A-138-5793. You dresses nine down a court. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes, good afternoon. Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary, members of Board Attorney Joseph Feister from the law firm of Dane Torpe, 175 Federal Street in Boston. With me as well is Matt Mueller, who I believe has been is the architect or who is the architect and I believe that he has been updated to a panelist and also present our client's Joe Regereal and Michael Basie. I want to bring to the board to attention this was a matter which was heard by the board at congeniorate of 2022 but at that time the matter was dismissed without prejudice we were then seeking a nine-unit building but continuing our process of working with the community to proposal us before you now is in fact a six-unit condominium building which is on a 8,000-plus square foot lot and violations that we have I hate to always characterize and say our the minimus because that's a determination for the board to make but I will simply say that with regards to the parking requirement that would be required by code to have seven and a half spaces we are proposing six for the six-unit property while we are proposing a multi-family use this is a three F five thousand district the floor area ratio is a point five we are proposing a point eight seven the building height is 2.5 we are proposing three the front yard is insufficient we're say we're what's required is 15 feet and we're proposing five and I suspect that in the architect Mr. Mule will clarify if I'm wrong but that's because they keep the street alignment and the side yard is 10 and we are proposing 7.91 but also some of the dozens of responses to the variances that are necessary and now I will ask Mr. Builard to walk you through the project. Good afternoon board my name is Nademula from Hugh Architecture so I'll give you a brief overview of the project at Joseph Sevdis was initially a pro we our first proposal was a 12 unit through the first process we reduced it to a nine unit and then coming back we've reduced it to a six-unit so we are trying hard to make this address the neighbor's concerns currently it's a three-story building which we felt fit nicely with the three story three unit three family buildings to the right and across the street there's a commercial building of three stories initially we had garage parking on the first floor which made it four stories but we so we placed the parking in the rear of the lot and reduced it one-story gathered interior garage next slide please the units are all two bedrooms approximately one thousand square feet each two bedroom two bath open concepts up next by please next slide please and our elevations consists of a traditional bay look which again aligns with with the flow and the three families next door to keep keep that consistent bay look in the neighborhood and it also relates to the commercial building with the man's head roof across the street so we feel like we've done a lot in addressing the neighbors concerns in terms of the scale and size of the building on the lot which was the main concerns of the initial proposal and I'll keep it short and sweet that's all I have for you today must you have any questions thank you any questions from the board you have my wish could we go back to a slide showing the side planet in the parking and I think this question is for the architect for mr. Miller so this is a big lot and unfortunately what I see is that most of the open spaces covered by a pavement for for the parking so do you think there is any way to put the parking closer to a building and to increase green space in the back open space that is used over for the residents because this is a huge parking lot and it's only for the cars pulling in and out so if you put the parking closer to everything you can maybe rotate the order to park it on the side and increase the green space in the back and you can you open it and all of that yeah I mean you know this is the eternal debate with ZBA projects parking risk green space first height so initially like I said we had the parking underneath the building and there was a lot more green space on the lot but the bulk of the building was the main concern of the residents so we spread that parking out toward the rear of a lot you know I think we could definitely play with it if we're allowed to reduce the parking that would definitely help but there's not I mean it's a slightly awkward lot so we did have to rotate those spaces on the side to gain the extra couple of spaces and there you know there's the corners obviously have a little bit of green space but it was our opinion that the concerns of the community were they wanted parking and to reduce the size of the building so this is this is kind of where the design landed that makes sense yes thank you I know any other questions from the board they have public testimony afternoon I'm at chair members of the board I should go to here from the mayor's office and the services the new mayor dot me as well so background and full on the committee process office on our borders with a back in November all the members and a voters of greater voter and Geneva association are in favour of the support this project no significant impact on the community we've got to look for different to the board this time Madam chair members of the board Joe McGebron City Council Frank Baker's office would like to go and reckon and support thank you Madam chair members of the board Paul Solven for City Council Lodge Michael Flarey Council bill records support Francis of Brian actually has his hand up from Councillor Wurl's office I'm good afternoon Madam chair members of the board I'm this project that council relates to go on record and support thank you and I have no additional hands please members of the board Tom and your councilor Mayor of the office councilor Murphy would also like to go on record and support thank you no additional hands for the chair thank you and bpda recommendation is approval with provisor ma'am chair you are on mute so sorry sorry is stuff hampton on would you like to give your recommendation I am madam chair thank you I guess we recommended approval with design review to work on consolidating the open space great thank you with that may I have a motion thank you ma'am chair and make a motion to approve will be the BPD a design review with a special attention to who was embarking and increasing in the area space in the year back up thank you ma'am may I have a second Mr. Shepherd yes Mr. Valencia Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Collins yes Mr. Panato yes there's a levier yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you very much members of the board thank you thank you all next we have case b o a one three five four zero seven zero the address is two twenty six magnolia street is two the applicant or representative president I am uh if I may uh man chair yes sir thank you uh good afternoon members of the board this is Mike Ross I am the attorney from principle bell one international place I'm here with my client Solomon Chattori Solomon is a resident of Dorchester and the developer and owner of this site and the person of color Andre Porter is our community outreach person and our architect is alfonso Sarah and they're here as well the site is a five thousand seven hundred seventy five square foot lot in a three f four thousand a sub district within the Roxbury neighborhood zoning district and it's currently improved with a nine bay garage that is used exclusively for parking and the plan is to build a four-story multi-family residential project with 14 new residences eight parking spaces and 21 percent of the 14 new residences will be affordable so three of the 14 will be affordable 21 so the next slide please Madam Ambassador will show you the site plan and this is actually to show you along so magnolia is at the top and there is an existing driveway today that is shared between this lot two twenty six magnolia and the lot next to us on the right and they have also an existing easement there to allow for the shared access and of course there's an existing curb cut there so those were all remain the same you can also see if you just scroll up just a teeny bit Madam Ambassador you can see how the existing lot there goes all the way to pretty much all the way I think it's two feet off the back property line and behind that is actually a public park so our project is 17 feet off that as I'll show you in the next slide Madam Ambassador here and you can kind of see the hash marks of the garage still under that and then you see our building laid on top of the site plan there and you can see that setback that I just referenced the next slide please Madam Ambassador here is the existing conditions you know visually you might want to zoom in but what you can see is that nine bay one story existing garage that's what's there today I would just point out here the building to the right of us which is a multi-family residence as well is pretty much the height of what we're proposing I'll walk through those exact heights for you in a second but that's kind of the what we want to make that reference to you if we could next slide please this slide will just show you how with that little diagram how the vehicles will access the building they'll go down the existing parking lot which is out of slope and I mean the existing driveway probably down and which down that slope they'll swing around into the back and enter the the garage that you see in the rendering there on the right which will be on the kind of left corner of that back of that back of that building of the building next slide please so these are the floor plan slides five and six and I think they're slides five and six these this slide the next slide are the floor plans and they're on the ground floor you see the eight parking lots the eight parking spaces lined up there and then floor is one is four two three four as well the roof plan on this side and the next slide what we have here for unit count is and and you can go to the next slide if you want as well is we have two studio apartments two one bedroom apartments and nine two bedroom apartments so I got that right and there's one three bedroom apartment for a total of 14 and I'm using the word apartment but in fact this is home ownership so I really should be using the word condominium and you know as you can see they're they're not on sweet baths you know so you have there one bath two bedrooms so in an effort to try to make this an approachable unit on the marketplace and be extensive to those cost drivers the just the the units range in sizes from the studios which are the two studios which are small 450 to the one bed which goes all the way to 1269 then I can get drilled down on that if you'd like the next slide will just show you elevations from the side so the upper left is the right hand side of the building the rear is the back of the building the lower left is the left hand side of the building along that easement they were referenced and then the front of the building is from the lower right hand you'll notice the substantial number of balconies every single unit has its own outdoor space I think I think a couple of units actually have two outdoor spaces so there's plenty of kind of outdoor amenities for each of the units next slide books and just to kind of show that that we do have a landscape plan to point bikes in the rear but you know bike outdoor bike storage in the rear a seated lawn aluminum planters both in the front and in the back a little bit of a gathering area for for residents in the back and we'll we'll be using pre-casked pavers in the rear so that allows for some of the drainage just really quickly just to give you a sense of what the zoning relief specifically is so we're being cited for use there's a multi-family I did reference that there are other multi-families on Magnolia Street the off-street parking here they want one per unit we're at eight they want a two thousand square feet per unit on the lot so that that we're you know well we're not in that in that range the floor area ratio for this area is 0.8 we're at a 2.62 we're close on building height 35 and three stories we are at 43 and four four three and four inches and four stories I mentioned the balconies doesn't quite get us to where we need to be unusable in space so we were cited on that the side yard is insufficient they want 10 feet on each side which we could not do on this lot we have almost two feet on one side and 0.4 on the other the the rear yard I referenced we're at a 17 they want a 30 foot rear yard in this area and then we were cited for conformity of existing building alignment I'll just pause there Madam Chair and see if there's any questions from the board thank you could question your reference other other multi-families are do you have a sense of number of units for example the the two buildings next to you yeah and those two buildings next to us are the other and there's others too I just before I got on the call I looked at it I think it's like I don't want to guess I mean it was like I think it was like six and one and eight and the other or something like that they're they're it could be a little bit more but it's around that so it's total yeah I mean I think it's I think it's around those numbers and it looks like you're you're about doubles I don't know what you want to call it lists or something of the of your adjacent properties in terms of the depth going back you mean yeah yeah that's it's it's true Madam Chair we are we do go back further than the other properties we do have more property play with than the other properties some of the other properties property lines are I think we have the longest property line on the street um we did pull back the existing one story structure but of course where this is now a four story structure got it thank you any questions from the board um more than just a comment that this seems like a pretty excessive use of this site with really minimal setbacks and and a pretty aggressive FAR thank you Mr. Canado I also wanted to comment that the balcony on the left side next to 20 to 28 Magnolia Street for what I understand only there are only two feet both are between the two buildings or the property line and those balconies for units 159 and 13 are going to be very dark because the building next door is blocking the the light in the air from those balconies is that correct Mr. Ross yes the the effort was to try just in just on the front portion though however as you can see actually in this side there was an effort to try to create light wells with those indentations in this in the building itself but that's our minutes are going to be dark people there is no natural like like the community to everything right in those for Jacob there's a good elevation there that you might want to uh uh better that might show there there are going to be a couple balconies that are abutting the the neighboring um you can go backward the other way uh better there yeah here we go um so I guess there's some 1 2 3 4 so those five balconies right there if you'll call them balconies one's at ground level on the left side of the elevation will um I guess be within the immediate footprint if you will of our budding neighbor there is a recess as I mentioned and um yeah it was just you have to try to create some light in there thank you just a note madam chair there are any other questions from the board um madam chair there are numerous kind of numerous letters of support and opposition from thank you can we take can we take public testimony yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board and keep your sentence from the mayor's office today for the services um and if others we was held on October 13th um where letters express foreign opposition due to the size of the building of the bot um residents feel the space is too small for the project they were not benefit the community um parking and density also being issued to um there are numerous letters of opposition sent to our office which we reported um I'm not aware where um of the support letters where they come from but I was told by the update that there were letters as a person as well um at this point we like to the project as a support thank you thank you before I hear from the next person mr. Stembridge as as we're taking public testimony if you could take a quick look at those letters uh for address that that might be beneficial uh I'll continue taking public testimony um yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is iamidil we were representing the office of district four council of brown world and concerning 226 and i know his street our office received seven letters of opposition and one uh support um that coupled with the history from um based in and product right critic uh associations respectively um the council has decided to want record in opposition to this project thank you you can go ahead um good evening madam chair um on behalf of council of district region our office have you see a dot a numerous number of opposition so we would like to go on record and opposed to the project thank you thank you all right madam chair first minute mike you've been unmuted if you can stay in a minute just for the record please this is Michael Koso from project right 3 2 0 the letter a blue avenue we originally uh work won't want to go on record on opposition of this project we originally met with the property the new property owner on july 22nd 2020 and where there is strong opposition to the concept of what he was trying to propose he came up with a new development team they presented a plan to the bpda that bypass project right in all the nearby associations they claim they had strong working relations with the greater bold and jenny by uh neighborhood association and they cited them in their submission to the bpda for this uh for this site for this project i sent you a email from the great i'll represent it from the greater girlfall uh greater bold and jenny by neighborhood association and they stated that they told the city bpda they needed to reach out to project right and not gp uh gna this location's not in our area there's a conscious effort to bypass uh the uh buddiness uh and nearby residents my understanding that there's over 50 letters and emails had been sitting from magnolia loran saff can you and associate his streets in opposition to this project thank you mr. kosoob mr mr. mrs. Murphy's office council Murphy's office good afternoon madam chair members of the board tome in council at our emergency office due to the opposition of the general community and of the kerosent trotter civic association council Murphy would like to go on record and opposition to this project thank you you can say your name and i just want to thank you good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is jackie pizalese and i'm a resident at 233 magnolia street directly across the street from this the board and i'd like to go on record today in strong opposition uh the the proposed project is simply too large not forward thinking inward add to our already densely populated area over parking issues traffic issues and i also haven't heard anything about any energy efficiency also there's no provisions for green spaces it's just like trying to stuff around pay in the square hole and strongly opposed thank you thank you sir thank you all right tamika you've been unmuted if you can say your name and i just for the record please i my name is tamika on the director butter that lives at 220 magnolia street i also are in opposition for this i just when i found out about this first development i was not a re-enotified that they would want to put holds of back in july 22 of 2020 so there has been a lack of communication as far as myself and my mother who's the director butter here with my family home so i i definitely oppose it because of the simple fact that that big infrastructure basically is going to overpower our property line and there's not going to be an instant light or anything over this i'm definitely in disagreement of that as far as this new project that he's coming up where he does not communicate with anybody as far as the people in the neighborhood we already have several meetings about this this these projects that was in full opposition so the fact that we're having another meeting about this again is a little bit frustrating to me because as a director butter or our voices should battle as well as far as this infrastructure and that infrastructure is very dense it's very large is opposing on to my my family's property line and i'm not comfortable with that that infrastructure even being there thank you thank you thank you would you like me to continue on me more I sense three four three yes let's let's try to do two more I think we're getting the flavor of it in the cool yeah okay Andre you've been unmuted if you can stay with me not just for the record please good afternoon can you hear me yes we can Andre Porter I'm part valentine as you go early from a council wrong side I was working with the community outreach I was not part of the original project I came one board when this is the part I were trying we're trying to take testimony from a butters at this moment oh yes thank you yes so should Francis yeah Francis any other testimony from a butters please deny this for now okay mr. Hampton can you share your recommendation all right he may not he may not be on I know he had to jump off at some point so just to read this into the record BPD recommends and I without prejudice proposal is excessive proponent should reduce buildings lot coverage proponent should comply with the rear yard minimum depth requirement and side yard minimum with requirement of article 50 are there any other questions from the board all right with that may I have a motion I'll make a motion to deny without prejudice and have a second second mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes miss Panato yes miss Olivia all right I think she might have dropped off the chair also votes yes the motion carries thank you so uh Javier I'm just gonna if this is if if Miss Olivia didn't de drop off I'm just gonna note to uh the rest of the applicants that we currently have a six-member board and you will need five members to vote in favor for your project to proceed thank you mr. Stembridge next madam chair we have case BOA 142 9000 9000 bad addresses 92 Lawrence 7 good afternoon mr. Secretary thank you madam chair members of the board my name is which morancy I represent area on carbon-hardt the developer of the property 92 letter Lawrence Avenue in the grove hill neighborhood um Madam chair I recognize the board is running late this fairly simple matter I will try to be as brief as possible this is an application to change the existing buildings legal occupancy from a three family to a four family dwelling the relevant zoning sub-district is a three F four thousand zoning sub-district with an article 50 the Roxbury neighborhood zoning article my client seeks to legalize as a separate unit a valuable unit approximately 1300 to square feet is a two bedroom two bath unit is not a basement unit as it is full walk out in the rear with at least two thirds of the unit being predominantly above grade as the plans cross section shows the ceiling height is seven feet eight inches in the garden level units all living space their benefits from full size fully above grade windows these are all condominium units which mean that approved with this petition would allow for the creation of an additional home ownership opportunity in this neighborhood in terms of the zoning relief the fourth unit is a conditional use in the relevant three F zoning sub-district they're also cited violations against the special law area for the additional growing unit excessive for area ratio the institution useful of this space and insufficient office parking as there's no means to add parking to this site to propose that the air is approximately 1.8 which is I would propose reasonable and typical of the surrounding neighborhood the present dimensions of the building are not being changed in any respect all those proposals legalization of existing building space as a separate condominium unit rather than as storage or utility space for example which is all that the zoning code would allow I'll pause and take any questions that members may have thank you any questions from the board Mr. Collins any questions on the plans all the plans are adequate thank you okay may I have public testimony I'm sorry we have one more position I'm the chairman of the board to see the church can you wait thank you sure keep Miss Montana man the butter's meeting was held on November 29th I'm worried about their show support members of the law and to do I understand there was one letter of opposition was said but I was not able to view on the reasons for the opposition and at this point we'd like to prefer to talk to thank you Mr. Warrow's office good afternoon I'm chair members of the board my name is I am the old we were representing district board council Warrow and when it comes to 26th's Lawrence street we received formal support we both be based in hand and undervales of associations respectively and that's it's the council would like to follow Sue and offer to support this program thank you any other raised hands yes I have to raise tears I'm sorry and Mike go ahead and state your name and address please for the record this is Michael close to the project right 3 2 0 the letter A blue have me we we want to go on record on supporting this project the applicant met and a butters met with the butters we should know that in 1988 it was previously listed as a 4 to 6 family so we just feel that it's just restoring the building back to it's youth neighbors top commented on what the property owner has done to restore the building and looking forward to continuing to work with them thank you thank you mr. Kozu no additional raise the attention thank you any other questions from the board just about chair yes the south people saying we have one one little support and one little robot position the only neither came with their exact address so all right thank you and the recommendation from bbda is approval was provided so that plans for any exterior changes be submitted to the agency before before for design review approval with that may have a motion motion to approve what bbda design review may i have a second take on that mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes mr. Nato yes the chair also loads yes motion carries good luck thank you the next three cases are companion cases first being b0a 1429 v07 with the address of 1028 or 1020 to 1024 who the lab knew second is case b0a 1429511 with the address of 1015 so 1019 who the lab knew and the third case b0a 1429513 with the address of six baby industry is the applicant or representative president so no hello we'll also need to add hanna kielsen who will be presenting for on our behalf yeah yep she's been promoted hanna mr. kielsen are you on to present yes i am i was muted on when we put my video on thank you thank you serve up that good afternoon um madam chair members of the board i'm hanna kielsen of the law firm known she and patten and bossed in at 84 states i'm counseling and deviant consulting yeah we can in this matter and i'm joined by the developer derella gillian maga as well as the project architect sofi norman as noted at the beginning this is really three separate projects companion projects um in the appeal before the board today concerns the five separate vacant properties that the applicant tends to develop as part of the city of fostons of blue hill avenue action plan b1 project for which rfp's went out by the city the spring of 2021 and dvm was designated the developer of five of these vacant parcels the objective of the city and the issuance of the rfp was to develop each parcel for affordable housing as well as commercial space to live in the street area where these vacant lots of presents the units that will be built are either home ownership cotton minium units or rental units for households at 80 percent or 100 percent of am i and given the size of each project and the parcels this small project review has been raised by way by the bpga before i talk about the first parcel which is located at 1028 1044 blue hill ab i wanted to make a generalized comment that kind of applies to all three of the sites all of these all of the dimensional violations that are being noted here are really the product of the small size of each of these lots in this dense urban area along blue hill avenue and it reflects the attempts of the developer to build a project that advances the city's affordable home ownership objectives as i noted before and the need for more affordable housing for families in the city of bbosting the proposed siding of the buildings is consistent with the character of this neighborhood where there's a varying uh... mess in terms of height variations and buildings have very minimal front yard or side yard or rear yard setbacks and the last point i'd like to make that's germane to the entire these three sites is about traffic and parking uh two of all of these sites front blue hill avenue which is a high traffic area uh the client developer engaged in extensive conversations with bpda about additional curb cuts and the bpda would not allow additional curb cuts so you will see that we have insufficient parking on on these parcels due to the inability to add any new curb cuts so we're highly constrained in terms of parking but this is along blue hill ab and so there are a series of bus lines that run up and down blue hill ab connecting the residents of these developments to morn station uh to mubian square to uh and the silver line and two jatsyn square and the orange line those rides are 10 to 15 minutes to the morn station commuter rail line in between 25 to 30 uh to connect to the orange line or to the silver line with that i'd like to go into each site if i may and i'm down chair thank you so the first site is located at 1028 1044 blue hill avenue and if we could go to slide four on the sheet um this site is comprised of one parcel and it's in the zoning sub district of the neighborhood shopping one um the applicant is proposing to construct a three-story mixed-use development uh building here comprised of about 15,000 square feet on the ground floor of commercial community space and 12 residential apartment units consisting of four or one bedroom units six two bedroom units and two three bedroom units the ground floor um if we could go to the floor plan on page nine please can't find a three one one so the ground floor will have um two two bedroom artist co-work spaces they're going to be located on the ground floor the balance of the residential space will be located on the second and third floor the one-room units here are about uh seven hundred about six hundred square feet the two bedroom units are approximately eight hundred and ninety square feet uh except for these artist co-work spaces which you will see are about a little over a thousand square feet and they will have uh in the front portion of them perter actions uh space uh space for the sale of artwork so kind of a commercial component and then in the back will be the residential area the three bedroom units in this development will be a little over 12,000 square feet they I have to be noted that there were six violations here and so the zoning relief that is being required for the development uh at at this site is an additional use permit uh the applicant is seeking a conditional use permit for the proposed multi-family dwelling to be located on the first floor of the property um as I noted that uh is for the artist co-work space there will be a dimensional variance is required for this project for flooring or ratio being excessive the FAR under the code is one here it's two point three uh the open space is insufficient under the code it's six hundred square feet here uh it's four hundred and eight square feet the rear yard is insufficient uh it is required to be 20 feet and here it will be five feet the building height is noted as excessive the building height under the zoning code is 35 feet and the proposed height here is 38 feet and as I noted before off street parking is insufficient at this site there is no off street parking being provided under the code 12 spaces would be needed for this site um that's uh that's the information I can pause here if there are any questions regarding this site or I can go to the next site um and go through each one before uh taking questions there are any questions from the board before she proceeds I think Miss Kielsen if you just yeah yeah just keep proceeding so the next site um is 10 15 at 10 15 10 19 Blue Hill Avenue it's comprised of of two vacant parcels that are being treated as a lot for zoning and development purposes the zoning sub district here is uh three family five thousand the applicant is proposing to construct a three-story mixed-use building comprised of uh one thousand 59 square feet of ground floor commercial space and ten residential home ownership units consisting of two one-bedroom units five two-bedroom units and three three-bedroom units the two-bedroom unit and the three-bedroom units are located on uh our located on the ground floor and then the balance of the residential you are located on the second and the third floor if we could go to slide uh page four of the site plan please that's thank you um can you go one more please just um uh uh so I think yours as I can quote that quote it with mine and one more please okay I'm sorry please go back two sides so the um the violin so the violations here uh let me just know it on the size the one-bedroom units are about seven hundred and thirty four square feet two bedrooms range between eight sixty eight and nine hundred and twelve square feet and the three-bedroom units are one thousand ninety seven there are die violations uh clear for which we are soothing variances first as to use um this as we noted this is in a three-family five thousand district and we are doing multi-family residential as well as a re-office retail space on the ground floor dimensionally the area additional lot area is insufficient um given the number of units there should be an additional two thousand square feet of lot area we only have an additional uh excuse me twenty thousand square feet we only have an additional two thousand thirty seven square feet the floor area ratio is excessive the FAR required is point eight RFAR here is one point eight building height is excessive uh zoning code has 35 feet we are 38 feet the usable open space is insufficient zoning code requires four hundred square feet we are at a hundred and nineteen uh hundred and nineteen square feet the front yard is insufficient 15 feet is required by code we have one one point four two feet side yard is insufficient the code requires ten feet we have five point oh five feet on the kind of the northeast side yard the rear yard is insufficient is thirty feet by code we are eight point oh six feet um and lastly the parking is insufficient again the multi-family would require ten spaces and the office would require additional two we are not providing any parking uh for this site and if I can go to the last party on 1039 blue delabinant so this is 1039 blue i have an in six fabian street it is a corner lot um this site is comprised of two vacant parcels that are being combined to be treated as a lot for zoning and development purposes um the zoning district for this parcel is three F my thousand three family similar to the other projects the the applicant is proposing a three-story mixed used building comprised of a small seven hundred and sixty four square foot ground floor commercial space and eight affordable residential hall ownership units consisting of two one bedroom units and six two bedroom units are the one bedroom units if we could go to slide uh actually nine rather than the site plan for a second uh the one bedroom units are located on the ground floor to as you can see here with the commercial space to the front i note that the commercial space entry is often blue hill avenue where whereas the entry for the residential will be off of fabian street the ground the one bedrooms are about seven hundred and thirty square feet the two bedroom units will be located on the second and third floor if we could go to the next slide and they are between eight hundred and thirty square feet in about nine sixty nine hundred and sixty square feet this uh site has thirteen violations loaded again uh in the attempts to maximize the development the the first is use um we are in a three family five thousand district we are proposing a multi-family development as well as a small takeout restaurant which are both forbidden uses uh and they uh and therefore variances needed i think i've noted previously but i will again that this area of blue who lab is really a mix of residential along but on most of the side streets and on some of blue hill as well as commercial and community uses this particular project is uh it's a butter is an auto repair shop and then across fabian street there is the Roxbury Center for forming art and on the other side of blue hill ab there's a dentist office the other two sites are right in walking distance of this site as well and so have a similar environment zoning the other dimensional violations a lot area again as insufficient here uh we would need an additional fifteen thousand square feet for the size of the development we have two thousand seven nine square feet four area ratio is excessive under the code it is point eight we have one point two usable open spaces and sufficient under the code it is four hundred square feet and we have fifty seven square feet building height is excessive it is thirty five feet under the code we have thirty eight feet the front yard is insufficient um could you go back to slide four please thank you the front yard is insufficient um it is fifteen feet by code we have one point four two this is similar to much of the development on along blue hill ab which is right to the set to the property line side yard is insufficient our west side yard is five point oh nine because and our right side right on fabian this is three point five it might be considered a front yard but even so it is it's it's an insufficient with whether a side yard or front yard um the refusal letter noted that the rear yard was insufficient um and the animal can disagree with that determination um for two basis one that since this is a corner lot uh it meets the definition of a corner lot under the code in terms of the angle um there are no rear yards there's only side yards um and this exceeds the the ten foot side yard requirement but if it is if it is still considered by the board to board to be a rear yard it's still as sufficient it's forty five point one three feet as the rear yard is the depth from the back of the building to the rear yard poppy line of the code requires thirty feet um austrian parking requirements here both for commercial and parking we were noted as a violation for commercial um but the apple can uh it doesn't agree with this violation commercial space requires half a space for every thousand square feet or one space for two thousand square feet um there as we noted the commercial space here is only uh seven hundred uh uh under uh about seven hundred thirty four square feet um seven hundred sixty four excuse me square feet so again my apology you missed a commercial bar I just thought I'd pause you to see if folks have any questions I I think you've covered uh the the violations in great detail so I just want to make sure what members have a chance to ask any questions any questions any any comments on uh the proposal this far yes uh me miss kielson did you mention that the bpda is considering the three sides of one project or can you mention again no they're they're treating them each as separate projects so they're each separate projects we've we've permitted them separately um but but they were they approved by the city the city approved or conveyed to or intense to convey to the developer each of these parcels for the proposed development each of the individual proposed development objectives and in that way they're companion uh because we've advanced them within the neighborhoods to see them in together but bpda considers each one its own project and there's a finance there and they will be financed in front of that way okay yes you mentioned that is the reason you are not going to through the article-lective process right right we okay thank you thank you any other questions chair can I just for the record put the three other violations um that just so that we have them for the record sure we do have them but you can you can state them okay okay well um so only park and street inspection I just want to speak to two it because there are two the remaining two violations are conformity with existing building alignment um and again this is one where we actually do not believe there is a violation but we were noted as having a violation um the this project is located between Brookview Street and Fabian Street and there is only one other building within this block which is the auto repair shop that sits to the as you look at the pictures to the left to the rest of the parcel um and so under the code we don't think that the building alignment provision provides since that it's applicable where there is two or more buildings so that one one one issue that that the applicant wanted to put before the the board and the last issue was the traffic visibility across the corner um this this is the issue that we are a corner lot and the area of the front yard where no structure should lie in order to not not impair traffic visibility our building sits however on blue halavony the way the way traffic moves it's one way direction uh the uh you have to turn right coming out of feed in the street and so there is no impairment because only the traffic is coming from the left thank you thank you and I know okay all right was was that uh man man take public testimony um after new and madam chair members of the board ericade to the mayor's office of mayor by his services the applicant for 10 15 19 VHA 10 20 8 20 uh 10 44 10 39 and six Fabian was initially scheduled for the butter's meeting on Tuesday December 6 2022 and according to the mayor's executive order the streamer and affordable housing our office is not holding the butter's meeting for this property uh the mayor's office of housing did hope community meetings saying that this property is located on moh land um they met with the great amount of pain neighborhood council which elected to support with the following revisels they asked that um they have mature healthy trees move to another great amount of pain every year they also asked if there would be written letter of support from the abutters and they also asked if the provisels um for provisels if they register trash dumps the rules trash will dumps to be easy accessible for all units as of now we have zero letters of support and zero letters of opposition for this project and with that we are elected to defer our judgment um to the board on this matter thank you thank you we have new madam chair members of the board Jordan Freys here from council of Ricardo royals office we'd like to go on record and support of this proposal thank you thank you Lieutenant Madam chair uh Cindy de juz from the office of council of resolution we would also like to go on record and support this project thank you I'm sure that we have a recommendation from the review EA for this project we do not I was going to ask if anyone from dnd is on wishes to speak all right hearing hearing not okay madam chair sorry madam chair this is d'yella on group meeting consulting they were here earlier and dropped off about 15 minutes ago uh we because we were wanting but you know we're running behind uh someone I see someone from mo mo each uh julio Julio that's the mayor's office of housing yeah oh mayor's office housing right all right frances can they speak yes holy i think you've been unmuted thank you good afternoon madam chair members of the board um my name is Julio pilar i am a housing development officer with the mayor's office of housing um i'm here supportive dbm consorting's project for the site identified today um the project will revitalize five vacant city on sites uh we'll and we'll also utilize city on funding to create the affordable homeowner's shipper mental opportunities for the boss and residents um in the area and in the neighborhood um this project as as was mentioned previously is a result of an extensive community process um that are office did um and ultimately um which ultimately led to an rp that was issued by our office under the blue eleven new action plan and the development team was selected as part of the uh review in accordance with the rfp goals and the community feedback um so i do want to say that we have received a lot of support for this project and there is a lot of uh energy behind the ria la and the dvm team um and thank you for your consideration at your time thank you sir uh right um um uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh counselor ral's office we can't hear you we can't hear you and i want to thank you can you hear me now yes yes okay good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is i am edel wea and i'm from the officer district for counselor ral's and in regards to um these three connected projects having received no letters four messages of opposition the counselor likes a gone record in support of this project thank you madam chair i have one raised hand christ you've been unmuted if you can stay here named in i just hold a rocket please hello yes you could barely hear you christ okay this is our crystal models i'm a director of butter next to ten thirty nine we will have what i own the lab right next door um we would like to go on record in support of the proposed plan right here we develop thank you sir all right uh what's that may i have a motion i make a motion i'm sure to approve with the be the the santerium and second thanks mr. shakran yes mr. valencia yes mr. stemberg yes mr. Collins yes mr. nato yes is mizola v8 back all right if not uh the chair also votes yes motion carries thank you so so just a reminder to remaining applicants we are still a six member board uh we also still have a pre full agenda ahead of us if you could focus on the violations and uh briefly describe your projects we depreciated thank you next we have case do a one four one nine five one four you dress being one table street at the outskirts of representative president yes good morning uh rather good afternoon madam chair members of the board when he was attorney Patrick Mahoney i represent close chemo and who's the owner of this project at one table street and with me is elpita from the architectural team just to take us through a briefly uh like to go over sort of the the project in a high level and then talk about the zoning relief that we're seeking just an interest of time uh and i know the board is going into the afternoon schedule thank you the proposed articleated project was approved by the p a in december there's 40 residential dwelling units proposed it is a conduit building for home ownership um additionally to the 40 dwelling units that start on the second to the sixth floor there is three retail spaces approximately a thousand feet on the first floor as well as 19 parking spaces below great the one table street is located in economic development area for dumbling square it's in the newbie and square neighborhood and we are seeking relief for height and proposed the allowed height is 55 feet the proposed height is 67 and a quarter feet and we are seeking relief for floor area ratio the zoning sub district here allows for an farr of 2.0 the proposed project is 4.5 and additionally there's a rear yard violation that we're seeking 20 feet is required and then we have 5.5 feet provided there is no open space requirements for this sub district however we do have open space located in the front portion as well as the green roof deck which would be shared amongst the condo owners and we are seeking relief for parking 19 parking spaces are provided and again in a below grade parking garage and that 40 spaces would be required it is 37th for the residential and three for the commercial uh so we're seeking relief for traffic visibility as you can see it's located the corner of taver street and ward street in a way that this is calculated is from the firmest point of the curb measure 30 feet in either direction and then the area in between that would be the zoning relief that we're seeking specifically here it's about 5.5 feet of the building and again this did go through a bit of design is stroking with the bbda and additional design relief would be required before permitting with that oh and one last bit there is an IDP requirement 13% is required because we are seeking zoning relief however the applicant has offered seven affordable units from the beginning and it was well received in the community and with that I'd like to turn it over to alpita just to take us through the building envelope and address any questions from the board thank you Patrick good afternoon everyone members of the board madam chair thank you for giving us the opportunity to present our project um unspatriotic set up part of the architect um design team I'll try to guide you through the project as quickly as possible so our proposed building is located on the corner lot at the intersection of Lawrence Street and taver street it is currently occupied by one story bricklandier building that hasn't been utilized for several years and what we are proposing is a new ground up six story building with a retail use on the ground floor level and a residential use from the second floor over to the six if we can go to the next slide please um with the the slide that we're seeing right now we are showing our proposed site plan with the special care that has been given to their dimensions and setbacks of their property line and the building setbacks so in close coordination with the bpda and several meetings we had with our butters and neighborhood groups we tried to give um a big component of the pedestrian access of the the new project so um we're having a 14 feet setback along the Warren Street sidewalk and an 11 foot setback along the taver street sidewalk if we can go to the next slide please to guide you through the program of our building we have an underground bible garage that will be accessed through taver street with proposed 19 parking spaces next slide please so on our ground floor we have a residential entrance located along taver street creating a pedestrian friendly access along taver street with just um residential uses mainly along taver street and then along Warren Street we have placed the three new proposed retail spaces activating the use of that space and inoceted to the um deadly um bus station so we have residential access to deadly and retail through Warren Street some of the utilities building services of the building are located there as well as the um bike storage area again designed within the guidelines through the bbda if we can go to the next slide so our typical residential floor layout shows the composition of the proposed units with a variety of two bedroom units and one bedroom units so um eight units per floor the folding slides are similar so we can go to the next first second floor third floor um fourth floor please so um the articulation of the units has taken in consideration the distribution of the affordable units as in the market unit can go to the next slide please the next one thank you and the next one so um arriving at the roof level since all our residential floors are typical pretty much we are proposing a green roof with installation of solar panels which has been a big component of the design consideration for energy efficiency and an open roof deck for the use of the tent so going to the next few slides we will see the articulation of the exterior design so we have our front facade along Warren Street on that first floor the retail components with a bigger and glass administration and an emasinary clouding component that runs two stories high to articulate and um in dialogue with the opposing building of the ferdinand building going to the next slide please this is the side elevation looking towards the deadly um that least newbie square i'm sorry um and the bus station where we are proposing um a potential cafe use for the corner of the of the project next slide please this is the rear facade where we see on the ground floor the access to the building services such as trash rooms and rear exits next slide please and this is our main facade located on tabour street um with a cat delivered bay taking place from the second floor to the sixth floor creating a natural canopy above our residential entrance to the left of this elevation we see the entrance to the garage that will lead to the underground level and the corner the right corner of the elevation is the the lobby and the lounge room that is proposed for the services of the building then next slide please so these are some three-de-model studies and a locust map that was done to present the mass articulation of the building and the activation of the the pedestrian component the next slide please um okay with with this rendered elevation we are showing the relationship in height of the new proposed Montaver street building right in front of the newly construction constructed ten paper street building um going to the next slide please and with this rendered use um it's a a proposal of the potential cladding material that will be composed of a masonry the near for the first two floors and ceramic panels uh alongside with aluminum composite panels for second two six what thank you one last rendering and I think that concludes our presentation thank you thank you are there any questions from the board mr. mr. Collins any questions on the plans all the plans are adequate okay with that i'm gonna take the post-courtney i yes madam chair members of the board connernium and with the marisos neighborhood services it's time marisos like to defer to the judgment of the board this one through a bp and led community process that we understand was was very productive where attendees expressed support without we defer to the judgment of this board thank you thank you mr. Feaster are you speaking on this yes i am uh madam chair member of the board my name is Joseph Feaster i'm sitting in my capacity as chairman of the board of the herbilega of eastern Massachusetts located at 88 warring street um i've seen this this proposal before i know the work of uh attorney mahoney on on this project uh certainly this is one we're doing a number of projects in the newbie in square area we are doing newbie in a sense in fact our village is doing a building so to see this area in that particular building revitalized as proposed by uh mr. mahoney is something which is welcoming in community so i stand in support of this uh this proposal thank you mr. Feaster thank you mr. Feaster madam chair i have two raised hands do i you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and i'll just for the right group please do i okay my nor you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and i'll just for the right group yes thank you madam chair member of the board mine up for rest with the carpenter's union we'd like to go and record on support of this project and could use the mr. transfer in outstanding community outreach thank you dwein all right that's all all right thank you any other questions from the board with that ma'am emotion ma'am chair amica mozin to approve the project thank you mr. shepherd yes mr. valencia yes mr. stamberidge um bad chair if i can just quickly inject me do you get ten letters of support from close by newbie and square businesses um and with that yes thank you sir uh mr. Collins yes miss panato yes chair also loads yes motion carries thank you the book thank you madam chair and mr. boy onto the last case for the 11th with 11 o'clock hearing that would be b o a 1417726 the rest is nine monument square is the applicant or representative president so Francis the you know if there's yes yes applicant Rob Gattek blow good afternoon chair and board thank you can you quickly let us know what what the proposal is and what the why I wish you very quick uh this is um four violations that were triggered uh through the filing out of amendment to an existing ALT for an ongoing project at nine monuments square in charles town uh we had filed an amendment to add a roof deck um to the building that would be access to through a hatch dedicated to the top four unit as a private roof deck to that unit with only access to it from that unit from an interior stair to a hatch we also did a reconfiguration of the mechanical room which allowed us to reconfigure the lower level of the space um to add a studio unit the legal occupancy of the building per the ALT is five units the original ALT proposal was four units but through the reconfiguration we were able to um add this additional studio the violations that were triggered were and i'm not sure if design overlay district is actually a violation but it was called out by the plan examiner the roof structure restriction which is standard for charles town uh forbidden basement units however the lower level of this building had been utilized as living space prior uh in the flora ratio excessive um through this reconfiguration of the mechanical room we've actually increased the FAR from the existing non-conforming FAR of 2.38 uh to a proposed of 2.54 so uh 0.16 increase or a total of just under 500 square feet of living area increased through the reconfiguration of the lower level and the re um the redesign of the stair leading to that lower space from the first floor uh the studio unit would have direct access um from uh monument square directly in um it has its own separate entrance the space is more than 50 percent above grade at that portion of the building the back portion of the lower level is actually part of a duplex unit that comprises of the first floor plus that back portion of the lower level thank you any questions from the board okay may i may i hear a public testimony um Francis is there anyone thank no no raise the answer chair hey madame jade is the boy shan green with the mayor's office and they put services um the bus meeting was held on December 14th for the applicant uh it was well attended that being said our office did receive only one letter of support with zero letters in opposition and with that we would like to defer uh judgment to the board thank you any questions further questions from board all right with that may i have a motion i'm most into approval with bbda design review uh in the proviso that they reworked the back egress with a rectifying proposed egress uh this is saying the fourth it shouldn't rely on connecting to the adjacent properties decks okay could i just add that the um we're actually not seeking any kind of relief on that that was approved by ISD oh was okay yes yeah the four violations were in the OOD roof structure restriction basement unit and four area that other piece was just part of the explanation of the project for the filing of the amendment i say okay so just approve with bpda design review thank you may i have a second second mr shepard mr valencia yes mr. stemberg yes mr. Collins yes miss panato yes miss la vie yes chair also votes yes motion carries thank you thank you next we'll move on to the recommendations from the women a.m. at this point i will read the case number the address and the recommendation from board at that point first case number boa one four one one four one nine with an address of c 34th partial street that was approved um that was approved by the board bpda next is case number boa 1406489 with an address of 40 park park on park on road that was approved next case boa 1419024 the address of 25 mandem street that was approved approved with bpda with no building code relief next the case one boa 14154 or five with an address of c 34th centric street that was approved uh b provisional to pay attention to dormant style next is case boa 139 1409 the addresses 47 overview road and that was approved with provisional by bpda to pay attention to the design of the dormant next is case boa 13605 30 address of 131 a.m. three chestnut avenue that was approved next is case boa 137 6 9 7 9 with an address of 11 Sharon street which was all was approved next case boa 14176 or eight address being 47 Melville avenue that was approved bdbpda provisional with design and managing with the garage matching the garage to the house next case boa 1407253 the address 144 Elmer road that was approved next is not it is case boa 14226 40 the address of 9 denison street that was approved case boa 136 4586 the address of 46 Lennwood street that was denied case number b oway 137 0498 the address of 45 the rake at the street that was denied case case b oa 139 0377 the address being 118 verbodan street that was approved so next is case b oa 143 1633 the address is 244 Numerous street and that was approved provisional with bpda design with the side next case boa 139 6206 the address 43 South Perman street that was approved next is case b oa 139 6595 the address of 26 crushway road that was denied that will take us on to the rediscussions I jump ahead too soon case b oa 136 39 oa 139 0104 the address of 104 the address of 106 Fretton street that was approved with bpda approval and provisional for exterior with approved with the bpda provisional for paying attention to exterior changes and side of the address all right with that may I have a motion for approval of the recommendations from the subcommittee I like to make a motion for the approval of the recommendations for the subcommittee second mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Stambridge yes yes yes mr. Collins yes mrs. Panato yes the chair also votes yes the motion carries next next we from the rediscussions 1130 am or case b oa 118 32 the address of 16 road street that was deferred I believe the date was April 22 at 1130 am so I think April 25 thank you so then we move on to case b oa 134 6254 your address being 10 wood haven street is the applicants for representing the presence this mr. dronor on I'm just going to remind all applicants we do still have a pretty full agenda if you could focus on the most the germane slides that would be helpful thank you I don't have a joint right here is that a joint I see him in the chat saying he's here I think he needs to be elevated to a panelist and I'm sorry sorry sorry you need to be you need to be for a whole deal sorry you're a panelist hello can you hear me yes we can yes we can okay good afternoon madam chair members of the boy my name is Derek join up with join a development 119 B. Rentham street do it just a master 02124 we're proposing to build the two family home with four australian pocket spaces the two these two condo units will provide whole ownership opportunities there's only one zone in violation that we're seeking relief for and that one violation is the use forbidden that's because we're proposing a two family and a one family sub district now shown in the proposed plans unit one has 1550 square feet of by-level living space there will be two bedrooms two bathrooms with an open floor plan on the main floor there will be a family room and study room in the basement unit two has 1700 square feet of by-level living space there will be three bedrooms three bathrooms with an open floor plan which includes a primary suite in the attic and i'll pause it this time to enter any questions the board may have thank you sir any questions or concerns from the board all right i uh i'm sorry i have one raised here thank you may we hear from them margo you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please margo three five okay what's that counselor earlier hello can you guys hear me yes okay i'm going to go first yep sorry i didn't know if you guys could hear me i was having a bit of a technical difference you can you guys see me all right yeah this is fair on this but the video doesn't matter um good afternoon madam chair members of the board ever changed the mayor's office the neighborhood services the applicants for ten woodhaven had no brothers meeting on september 20th 2022 they met with the woodhaven covert regis neighborhood association um and the great amount of pay neighbor counsel the great about a pay neighbor counsel is recommending adherence to the recommendation by the woodhaven covert regis neighborhood association the bcrna is stated as far concerned so they are concerned about the trust readiness of the owner to fall into on the plan for best to them and the one that has expressed interest in developing an adjacent apartment unit for daughters just the current way is for marketing to there's for marketing to condominium they believe that there's no here this will be so that's represented um can you guys hear me sorry yes no problem also a commitment to diversity in advertising units as forced sale um they're concerned about the current neighborhood workforce demographic has it's not excluded but um that's a nice footer from an opportunity for affordable home ownership and they're also worried about the impact of condominium development on current property value the precedent for owners of similarly sized parcels to pursue condominium development is being reinforced in root of single and two family homes so they are recommending that the dba as for the following provisos for running the plans that are showing the following uh the scale of the condominium do not exceed adjacent home on woodhaven street and covert street to step back from woodhaven street equal uh neighboring properties and dba guidelines the large rock formation be removed without damage to the properties a management plan for removal be included in the plans on landscaping be reviewed not just the uh the papers so at this time we have two letters of support one letter of opposition for this project and the mayor's office wants to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter thank you thank you but i have a new matter of chair members of the board Jordan free us here from council and record our royal's office we'd like to go record and support this proposal thank you thank you any other raised hands Frances yes margo um sorry it's not about this project okay okay so it's we want to ask for what is all okay uh with that any any additional questions from the board if not may i have a motion well yeah we're motion um forgive me mad chair but we do have two letters of opposition from from a neighborhood association okay who are they from uh they are from uh one was forwarded by Jordan free us um and they're signed by Lisa Dix and Barbara E. Fields co-chairs of woodhaven calder we just thank you okay thank you with that may i have a motion i would like to say that um i also have a support letter from the city council at lodge Julia Mahed a letter of support you said yes from the city council at lodge mr. Stembridge uh the representative for council aeros office who you referenced indicated that these were not letters of opposition can you clarify uh five five i apologize but see that's the way they look like if i may i can also clarify that so they did send these recommendations to our office um as of now they recommended that the zba asks for the provisos however we did not get any recommendation for opposition or support they are asking that that the provisos um do be um implemented though thank you so with that may i have a motion well it's not what you need to do uh come in make a motion for approval with our provisos of bpda design i'm not sure any provisos needed okay uh may i have a second okay mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes miss panato yes miss Olivia yes okay look at the chair votes yes motion carries good luck thank you madam chair members of the board have a good one next we have case b 0 a 1348 905 the dress being 120 to 124 baps in street is the applicant or representative present Francis is anyone here to represent 120 baps i didn't have anyone check it for that would the cliff is your hand up for this project yes yeah are you the presenter myself and read i'm myself in the architect okay okay uh can you add to it to fire yourself and your address for the record can you give me yes we can what my name is clinton louis and i'm representing the 20 baps hello yes we can hear you can you please uh briefly let us okay and i'm representing 120 baps in street yes are you able to see the screen can you briefly walk us through the the presentation it just focus on the architect is awesome the architect is also on here he will be represented yeah he needs he needs you guys to give him access what is his name clif didn't friend menigat jonna menigat okay i don't see a joiner yeah we've been on since nine thirty so he was i could see his name early on it okay i don't see him on here now okay loud down okay perhaps we should move forward and when he rejoins we can circle back to this mr. stembridge okay um with that we will go on to the next case i see a jonna mad magna gat is that what we're talking about yes that's good it is he's on here it's me the jonna mcgat okay thank you for finding him okay Francis can you unmute or i apologize i do not see him it says f jonna magna gat jonna okay yeah yes jonna oh he's he's a panelist yes okay so so jonna you tell us he's so you know yes hi hi everyone you guys hear me yes we can okay okay i know we have to be quick because we we've wasting a little bit of time so this is a proposal for my client to create a hybrid of elderly housing on the upper floor of this existing building with adult daycare and the lower level a little bit of background my clients have operated are currently operating too adult daycare and the city of austin are very successful so what they try to do it may be consolidate some of their programs and to this building with the with the regina's residential units above so what they are and what we're proposing is 14 units of uh a mix of studios and in one bedroom elderly housing on the upper two floors with the adult daycare and the second floor i mean in the lower floor and we're supporting spaces spread on each other floor like on the first floor we have two spreading spaces and each of the other floors we have we have an office slash kind of a gathering room for each one for each of the floors for the for the for the side plan we proposing some parking spaces and some green space and some area for the way it's used to to relax during the the spring and summer months we're proposing to add an elevator to the building which could it does not have we also proposing to add a couple any kind of accessible ramps without the front and one on the side of the building uh currently the building is a vacant building that has not been used for i will say for a few decades uh right now there's a lot of dumping happening on the site so it's a big issue for the neighborhood and i think uh upper puzzle is looking to actually bring some life to this building and make sure that it's also bring some much needed elderly housing to the neighborhood so i went pretty quickly but i because i know we we're kind of running out of time thank you thank you Jonah are there any exterior improvements being made to this? the only exterior proof we're making is we adding a couple uh any accessible ramps uh and uh and uh and uh and uh for some landscape and work okay thank you thank you thank you thank you thanks miss panato any other questions from the board? we don't have our BPD recommendations right? not that i see is Jeff here? he is off any other questions from the board? okay with that may i have public testimony? good morning madam chair members of the board every change of the mayor's office of neighborhood services again the applicant for 120 to 124 bafston street had the butters meeting on September 1st 2022 they met with the greater matter-payment neighborhood council which is requesting that they defer to april to allow for the applicant to present today's voting committee in march the applicant had stated that they have tried to schedule meeting with the GMNCR numerous occasions that have been unsuccessful the GMNCR stated that they are aware of the previous proposal when it was 18 units but haven't seen an up to the plans or met with the applicant six to four than was reduced to 14 units they were opposed to the 18 units and 15 unit proposal so they were like to hear the 14 unit proposal and the changes to the unit they are asking that the applicant could uh present these up to the board in their march um march hearing so as of now we have deliverments to court and deliverments of opposition for this project and we are aiming to defer jump into the board on this matter thank you if i can just jump and quickly uh take your Eric the the reduction from 18 to 14 units was suggested to us by the matter-payment neighborhood group so that's why we that's why we went into that direction because they figured it would be easy to get much better received from 18 to from 18 to 14 and i think what we are hoping to do is to maybe get some get a group of which uh we provide or that we that we get their support if needed thank you any other raised hands Francis okay uh any other questions from the board i think i have like to propose a motion to defer so the applicant can can work to get some support for this project so there's second okay mr shepherd yes mr valencia yes mr. stembridge yes mr. Collins yes mr. nato yes miss livier yes chair also wants to get some motion carries thank you good luck uh do we have a date uh mr. stembridge the earliest date is April 25 at 11 30 is there any change that we could get up there soon or if i want to just stress to the uh to the boy that uh you know my clients has lost quite a bit of time i think that's the earliest and what i also heard was that there was a request that you go back to the neighborhood association uh in march can i can i just make a uh can i just make a quick suggestion we've had this project for quite a while now we've lost quite a bit of money it's not because of us it's mostly through the city process of not everyone being aligned and we've tried numerous a time to try to get this project moved forward for the past years like it's been at least close to two years now where i understand i understand well how have you heard you know a motion was made and and we've already voted so unless have you hear says differently i think we need to move forward yes mage i agree with you uh in both ways this will be the earliest time that we can do at this point we do apologize but we do hope you go back to the community uh as as requested and then we will see you in April thank you thank you mr.cemberich next case uh you are muted mr.cemberich sorry about that ran chair the next two cases together are case b o a 140 a 351 you dressed up is 570 r warren street and along with the joint case of that is b o a 140 a 3 or 4 the address being 570 warren street are the applicants and or representative president mr. sir mr. sir y'all president so good afternoon good afternoon madam chair members of the board attorney Derek small the business address is one doubts and wronged tree with me i have eva call me who's the president and CEO of Commonwealth man trust i think micro prince the architect is also a law for the project um chair we are here today seek and relieve to remove the proposal this petitioner only from the prime at 570 warren street we have a marzine house of 17 logias here on that one we move the proposal to this petitioner only transfer that yeah license over to uh comma what plan trust on this one zoning service district is three of 4,000 a lot size of 7,600 to be nice with feet and again our only violation for that one is conditions for the variance of the removal of the vizone with regard to 570 r warren we're changing the legal occupancy from a family dwelling to a lashing house for 10 logias and there the zoning service district is three out for thousand nine lot size for that is 4,900 makes square feet the use regulations a lashing house one of the violations they're under the FAR side yard setback of requirements 10 feet we have six on one and four on the other the rear yard violation requirements 30 feet and we have 6.3 madam chair on the this thing property at 570 r again is the two family dwelling and we are seeing this stat to a lashing house for the department with regards to the overalls over the plans we are reducing the number of lodgers from the previous owner who had six and we are reducing it to 28. The setback who were deferred either boy to go back and meet with the adit yeah my buddy is at the rear of the property on Elm Hill Park and I'm happy to say that we didn't meet with them and we had good dialogue with regard to the project. I'm gonna stop there myself or even come in for the president's you'll come a more man trust can answer questions that the board may have at the stop. Thank you Mr. Small any questions from the board. So these are lodging houses with shared kitchens and baths can you talk a little bit about the operations? Eva do you want to talk about the operations a little bit? Who's who's the target audience for these properties are they currently occupied? I don't know if you're allowing CLT to be a two-panelist yes you can call me CLT. He's in the chat asking to be letting us say hi let me say the meantime Mr. Small can you because we we've heard this previously and there was some feedback about community processing and community engagement can you just speak to that as we sure we met with project right my closing project rate I think three or four times and they voiced their support project and again we're different to go back and meet your butters the rear of the property on Elm Hill Park did meet with those folks they're very supportive and as we move forward and I think a member of their issues were addressed you know lonely that we are our new owners coming into this ask and issues with the proposal Robert thank you Mr. Small have the afternoon are you able to come yes either we can air you okay thank you for letting me in and helping with the process also the question was regarding the operations of the project so there's probably 26 units of the party housing they will be fully subsidized and there will be all sorts of supported services the funding will come from the state mostly through DHD vouchers and also some funding for purposes from the Department of Public Health various other sources that were still working on this is very similar to our operations at Crawford Street we will operate a similar model yeah so that's in the vicinity so I don't know if you have any specific questions regarding they Ms. Panato did that address your question or no thank you thank you thank you any other questions from the board with that may I take point please miss I yes Madam Chair members the board gone on in with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services as you heard from the Hopkins representation they've done extensive community outreach connecting with neighbors on inter wall street normandy street neighborhood association as well as the Devon Normandy Brunswick street neighborhood association as well as part project right our offices unaware of any concerns this time without return to the board thank you thank you Councillor Murphy's office good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Thomas Manu from Councillor Aaron Murphy's office council Murphy at this time would like to go on record and support this project thank you thank you is it Rihanna from Mayor's Office of Housing thank you good afternoon members of the board I'm just a director of the Mayor's Office of Housing on behalf of the Mayor's Office of Housing I want to go on record and support of this project and the work of the Commonwealth Land Trust the Mayor's Office of Housing is also providing funding to support the development of these the portable supportive housing units and experience iteration thank you Madam Chair I have three raised periods my good statement I'll just for the record please this is Michael closer from project right 320 letter a blue avenue previously to CLT taking ownership of this we have two problem property owners start and we work with then Councillor Jackson from 2013 pushing these folks but they did still had 56 tenants in these two properties that cause a lot of problems we worked for many years trying to address this so we worked with Commonwealth Land Trust who became the new owners and Mayor had a Mayor's office had a letters meeting in November of 2021 we worked with them we've done outreach and follow through a working with neighbors addressing the there are issues we thank you for the deferred that allow more Elm Hill Park improvement association we're essence to be involved and we look forward to having CLT continue to attend our meetings and if necessary to attend the meetings Elm Hill Park improvement association further falls through thank you Madam Chair members of the board also I would say council member Michael Larry come and go ready to support all right one more you said Francis yes there's two more Andrea you've been muted if you can thank you name and I just for the record please hi my name is Andrea Walker I'm at 24 Elm Hill Park we are a butters to the property and we we would just like to thank the members that allowed us to deferral so that we could have a meeting with the new owners we did have a great meeting and we did agree with the letter that Mike Coleson had sent out and we agree with all the standards that he is looking for in the owners and we also offer us support from the project thank you thank you and then the last one is T-Semond you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please yes this is the Tyree Birch Simon I'm also the co-chair of the Elm Hill Park neighborhood association there was a drafted document that we sent over to the ZBA hearing department as well as to Steve Rokins of the Commonwealth Land Trust although we are in support of their initiative we did have a few things that we would like to contribute to make sure that the neighbors and the neighborhood feel safe and are in full support of what their endeavors are this document was shared to everyone and as long as they are able to to sincerely and authentically commit to some of the things that the the relatives that I'm sorry the residents of our neighborhood are concerned about I think that will be okay moving forward with their project thank you no additional raise here is there a chair will that man have a motion I'd like to make an emotion for approval with this petitioner only proviso thank you Mr. Shepard Mr. Valencia yes Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Collins yes Ms. Panato yes Miss Olivia yes sure also looks yes motion carries good luck thank you Madam Chair I was glad we're done next we have a B O A 13397 87 the address of 17 chief street yeah can we represent available yes good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Richard Lins of the business address of 245 Sumner Street East Boston thank you for your time and patience today members of the board I know it's a long day and you have more to go I will be as brief as possible but they're very straightforward proposal this involves pre-existing multifamily building in the north end section of the city of Boston our proposal is very straightforward simple change the first in a lower level are part of one unit we are proposing to divide those unit divide that space into two units by changing existing living space in the lower level to independent unit so the change of occupancy here will involve the change from a six unit to a seven unit building that isn't allowed use under article 54 in the north end so no relief necessary for the change of use because the building is oriented on conforming in most respects with respect to dimensional controls in the neighborhood the change obviously would trigger some technical violations if we want to jump to slide nine I believe that is the relevant slide showing the floor plan of what we're proposing for change here that slide is perfect right there so as you can see on the left-hand side of the screen that is the lower level ground floor plan that level currently is habitable occupable space there will be a reprogramming of the space directly above it which is part of the same unit making that independent living units can see a proposed first floor plan the lower level would be a studio side unit we also include an area that's required in the building code for utility spaces you can see out line in the red area the building is already fully sprinkled and therefore would comply with the life safety requirements for building this size we are proposing this change with respect to the building and requesting no building code relief for this project with respect to the relief that is necessary there is a use issue this is considered depending on how you measure the building this would be considered a basement unit however we do have adequate availability of windows and openings as shown on the on the plans that have been submitted in addition because the modification of some of the space will increase slightly the total availability of course for you we are increasing the FAR bit as well ever so slightly it is again already a non-conforming condition so we request a relief for that and then from a technical standpoint because the building as it currently sits in the lot doesn't really afford much open space the addition or introduction of a new unit triggers usable open space as well however we are not decreasing any available area that's the outside of the building there really isn't much to speak of anyhow there is also minor change on the roof there are some addition of some mechanical so we do propose adequate screening and buffering I know that was part of the BPD as recommendations well which were happy to work through respect to those items last but not least is parking the introduction of the additional dwelling unit does require an additional parking space however based upon the design of the building certainly the neighborhood there would be no opportunity at additional parking in this particular case I'll stop there and answer any questions the board may have Madam Chair thank you thank you any questions on the plans for the proposal then is there adequate thank you with that may I have public testimony good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board my name is Sierra D'Amico with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services the applicant of 17 Chief Street had complete a community process there was in a butters held on May 31st and they do have a lot of support from new Nick and non-albut excuse me a non-objection letter from New Rock at this time related to deferred to the board's judgment thank you thank you Francis any other reasons we don't raise hands by the chair okay would that may I have a motion motion to approve with BPD's BPD a design review special attention to the roof deck in this screening that second I can't answer can I add the no meeting code relief and no building code relief yeah okay Mr. Shepherd yes Mr. Palacio yes Mr. Stembridge yes Mr. Collins yes this Monado yes Miss Olivia yes chair votes yes motion carries thank you very much have a great day thank you all right we're inch we're inching along as we inch along with the requery 12th floor no case case B-O-A 1177 912 you dress up 82 to 85 Boston Street yes Mr. Secretary madam chair members of the board turnee Ryan Spitz with that is a maranze business address of 168 H Street South Boston first floor with me today is Peter McClary from media partners as you may recall this case has been previously brought back to the board for a reconsideration as there were elevation drawings that were inadvertently not submitted to the board upon the initial presentation since then those plans have been resumitted they're the plans that are here in front of you today and then couple with some administrative deferrals so we're back here today this is a proposal is for to a conditional use permit to construct a 14 feet by 48 feet single face digital billboard freestanding pylon to the rear of the property of 82 through 84 Boston Street overlooking interstate 93 which is owned by the Polish American citizens club a nonprofit organization we understand and respect the city's position on billboards but this is a unique proposal that would also assist in the city's vision of decluttering billboard science and residential neighborhoods by committing to remove existing billboard locations from our residential neighborhoods in consideration of adding one digital face billboard overlooking 90 overlooking interstate 93 a location where billboards should be and not within our neighborhoods the locations being identified for removal are one the strand theater which is located at 543 Columbia Road in another location of 43 pebble treble street which will remove four faces from these residential neighborhoods in a combined total removing these two locations the strand theater was permitted back in 1918 which had permits for two signs approximately 12 feet by 24 feet and now as you can see it here today it has been combined into one enormous sign at 20 feet by 50 feet as there's that should we be advancing slides you're talking about the strand theater yes we don't have these we don't have the locations oh okay these are the ones that are being removed the okay thank you arms you have you'll have different siding from different angles that was requested previously okay so the treble street location was permitted back in 1945 which has two sides to the sign so again those are 12 feet by 24 feet further we request a proviso that if if this is approved from this board that a permit will not issue for to build the billboard on the Polish lobby 82 Boston Street and so those commitments of those locations have been officially removed and they are down completely and entirely the use is a forbidden which is required which is would we require the board to grant the conditional use permit if approved by this board the proponent would also have to further engage the conservation commission where review on ear right open space as well as seek the state approval for outdoor advertising by wedding history this address is the home of the Polish American Citizens Club a nonprofit organization that has been in existence for over 81 years in a vital parts of this dual chest of community that is referred to as the Polish Triangle again the billboard is located in the rear of the property overlooking interstate 93 to the right of the property there are a couple of abutting as you can actually see in this in this image that you have here so if you look at the image head on to the left that is Ross and Street there are only residential neighbors to have any sighting of the billboard which is minimal the view from the properties would only be the side of the sign and not a head on view given this the operator has decided to use this new light blocking technology that eliminates any light illumination coming from the billboard to where these properties align pita McLeary is here with me today so after you know I finished my sentiments if you have any specific questions relating to that light blocking technology pita would be happy to answer it the operator further agrees to add a proviso again if this board approves this billboard stating that if the light blocking technology does not function as it's a post-do and is expressed to the neighbors of Ross and Street then the sign will come down further the the proponent has agreed as requests from the neighbors to add some plantings along the sidelines of 93 to block in their properties to prevent any sort of more pollution that the cars that they're experiencing from 93 again lastly we understand the bp a's recommendation and if approved the operator will comply with all the conditional requirements under article 11 section 6 but will amend their hours of operation from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. rather than using those hours the proponent has decided to choose to use the hours of 12 a.m. to 7 a.m. to prevent any more distraction during the dock morning hours of travel at this point I'm going to hand it over to the board for any questions right thank you I think you've answered my main question which was whether you've identified the other billboards during weeks so with that are there any other questions from the board so I'm just trying to understand this a little bit so does the proponent own the signs at the Strandt Theater and on Hevel Street Prevulstreet no no he does not own those signs but he has signed agreements with those locations that those those locations will be removed and again that's us asking the board if approved to have their provisional if those sign locations do not come down no permeable issue for this boy to be built do we have something from those owners it seems to me that we would want to see something like that as a consumer to the city yeah well legally I'm not quite sure you know what are if there's non-disclosures I didn't have any sort of capacity in negotiating those deals with settlements and typically from what I've told is that there's usually a non-disclosure in there I'm not sharing the confidential information within those agreements so I thought it was important to have a proviso added into there stating that if those signs do not come down at all then this sign doesn't get built but you don't know those signs so you can't commit to them coming down you just don't I can operate a media vision Peter you could probably comment a little bit more on this I'll give you if I can if we have agreements with the property owners who are the landlords the the signs are on leases that are no longer their term is expired so we're compensating these two property owners for as long as the billboard is out at the Polish center they will be paid of some of money that we have negotiated and agreed to so that they're not heard by economically by you know this project and we've worked and I've listened to some public meetings in the city of Austin just two years ago when there were numerous mentions of how the redevelopment authority took over the strand theater put millions of dollars into it and yet they still have this huge ugly billboard in in in a neighborhood where it really shouldn't be so we targeted that because it was difficult and expensive and and we have agreements to take them down and as as attorney spits as as said before you know this is a very expensive sign we've said if the light blocking doesn't work and we will remove it that will be a provider to it. Yeah, comment. Okay thank you and this and then I'm not intimately familiar with this the billboard requirements so just tell me perhaps what doesn't comply about this sign with the billboard requirements. So the the BPDI I know Jeff Hampton is not here I'm sure he could comment more so the BPDAs requirements they dedicated and committed certain areas of having these signs right and the whole intentions of the BPDA was to keep these out of our residential neighborhoods and in overlooking places and certain areas just like overlooking 93 however just this is one of the locations that was carved out is that it was a forbidding use and that's why we're here today requesting the conditional use permit requirement okay thank you any other questions from the board okay with that may we may we have public testimony Francis? Yes Madam Chair members the board Conor and with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services this time Mayor's Office like to refer to the judgment of this board there's been a long community process and throughout we've made a variety of opinions on this we've received letters of support from several associations the Andrew Squares of Association McCormick as well as the Volis triangle union those weren't support site this opportunity to remove other billboards and other parts of the neighborhood as well as keep the social club in this part of Dorchester we've also received letters of opposition from a butter is concerned regarding light pollution which I'm sure you'll hear from some of them today as I said before we've had a variety of opinions the portion of access to those letters at this time would defer to the judgment of this board thank you thank you mr. Newman Francis any other raised hands yes chair Dwayne you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I'll just hold the market please okay how about Councillor Murphy's office good afternoon madam chair members of the board Tom and your components are in Murphy's office with the support of Andrew Squares of the association McCormick civic association and support from the Polish club itself come from Murphy at this time we'll be supporting light to be on record and support thank you thank you madam chair members of the board Paul Sullivan City Council out lives Michael Clarity due to the revenue that this would generate for the Polish club a great community spot for the dutch as a self-awesome neighborhood in the fact that there are other billboards throughout the neighborhood that will be removed council like to go and recommend support thank you any other raised hands Francis sorry madam chair I apologize Elizabeth you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I just for the record please but I can know this is Elizabeth Chabburg side the kingdom yes yes sir okay I own 31 Rossins Street directly a button that the board I will be directly impacted by the billboard and I support the project I am a I was brought up in Polish community and the American citizens bodies and foreign organization to the post community that has been around for 18 years and I would like to support the project thank you is there anyone else to speak can speak Francis yes Peter you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I just for the record please hi yes my name is Peter Gizek I live at 141 North Chess or Adam South Boston I'm also the the treasure of the Polish club obviously I've been in support of this project but just want to quickly say that in terms of the revenue that this will generate for the club you know we've been around for over 80 years this is the kind of revenue that we can take and invest in the club and make sure that we become self-sustaining and can be around for another 80 160 however many years so that our kids and grandkids can have the same experience we've had with the club so it's near a geared toward membership it's near geared toward heart and really hoping that we get a proof of it or today because it'll want to mentally alter the course of the club for us so thank you so much for your time and your consideration thank you Francis can we take a look more and then we'll proceed okay Maria you've been unmuted if you can stay your name and I just for the record please hi I'm Maria Lyons I live at 176 Wall that street in Dorchester and I am opposed to this digital billboard as I opposed to all digital billboards they've neglected to mention that it's also against the federal highway beautification but anyway I traveled daily on this road so I'm also an employer by traveling by to and from every single day and it's a very dangerous crossing there's many entrances and eggs and if you look at the picture that they've shown you'll see that it's facing the north north through it in but it's on the opposite side of the road which will really distract drivers off take their eyes off the road now this area is beginning to look like time square not real class Boston it's digital graffiti it's ugly it's annoying and it distracts driver there is no rule that allows a digital billboard to be taken down because they're taken down static billboards this is just fabricated by the billboard industry to get what they want and in fact it helps old billboards are grandfiled it in and if the city said today they want to put down they could take them down there's no need to make any deals please now the previous vote by the disgiving I'm the only one here speaking so the previous vote by this was no please say no again popularity of a great it's a great club but popularity or economic need does not create a hardship it is necessary for you to find a hardship exists before you create a variance please deny this request madam chair would you like to hear another one one more and then we need to move forward okay Scott you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the market please hi thank you madam chair and aboard Scott I've come in from 24 Rosses tree covers seven my concern is with the light pollution and really wanting to see more specifics about their mitigation efforts I know I talked to Peter he was very helpful about the idea of planting some trees as you can see I'm I'm on Rosses tree and I look downwards at the billboard and my concern is if if they're planting baby seedlings six even six feet tall trees you can see from I sent an email to the zoning board public import input so if you have my email from the 10th of January for the last hearing I look down from the fourth floor at this billboard and I can see clearly the area where the billboards will be placed and unless these planted trees are level with the third story of the buildings in front of it they're not going to do anything to block my direct view of this billboard and so I just don't want to be looking at a billboard for five years until the plants that they've put in throughout tall enough to actually block the view of it thank you madam chairman yes there were other slides in in the presentation that was up and one of them shows the landscaping where we've committed to planting 10 foot tall rain giant r-ribbodies along the entire fence area where had spoke to mr. Heiferman about so that can be part of it I mean we we intend to do that just as a buffer just from noise sound and and air pollution we'd plan to do that all the way around and those trees could grow to be 65 feet tall and they grow as fast as any tree you can plant any other questions from the board okay I may I have a motion do we still have the BPTA on the board on the call oh no Jeff's been off do you want to write their recommendation what are the questions for as I forget so then as I can't notice their their recommendations for I think any billboards a mile yeah I'm not trying to go board but in use in this location right and in for previous if you're doing an end of for me and just to know and just to know yes we do have loads of support for me so thank you any questions any other questions thanks mr. Naro I'm sorry I'm just a lot of I make a motion to deny this proposal second mr. Shepherd yes mr. Valencia yes sir mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins no this penato yes miss Olivier yes the chair also loads no but I believe the motion carries next case thank you moving to the 1 p.m. hearings the case is B.O.A. 142 2396 the address being 225 113 and the applicant's for a representative president I don't have anyone chapter for that one okay mr. Goodman seems to be here if you can unmute him have you shown him me Goodman oh why am I not saying I don't know but he's on okay I do okay I see him here sorry about that thank you go ahead mr. Lee you've been unmuted if you can stay in a minute just for the record please thank you good afternoon madam chair my name is Lee Goodman uh 1705 Columbus Ave Boston Masso 2119 I'm here on behalf of my parents who live at 225 Lamar teen street they've lived there since 1978 my dad actually did a project here in 1985 where you built four units to two families and they live in the front building which is the focus of this request um they essentially raised their family there myself and my two sisters we've now moved out so they want to take their unit and divide it into two units which would make the existing two family into a three family if you go to slide seven you should be able to see essentially what the proposal is we're not changing anything to the footprint it's just making one unit a basement first floor unit and the other one a first floor second floor unit um so again you know it's just two two of them living in a in a three bedroom four bedroom condo today it's too big so they want to make it into two we have existing non-conforming variances because of the two buildings on the same lot but we're not changing anything to the footprint thank you mr. Goodman any questions on the on the proposal burns are adequate thank you okay if I can ask what is the height of the race money unit what is the height for that for value unit it's about eight foot ten my dad had a wood shop down there in the you know in my 80s 90s so it was always intended to become a unit in the future it's in the condo docs actually that they are allowed to do this work so this was planned as early as like 1985 believe it or not and is it a buff grain or below grain and how do you access this basement unit so it's sprinkler so there's a single access point through the stairway um you can see it top left but there's also a very large window well which you can see kind of built around the top of the the page there that gives you egress windows as well that's just giving you a lot of light so it's completely below great those this unit only the two bedrooms there's also a bedroom as well as a kitchen that's at the first floor so it's two additional bedrooms below grade so it's a two-level unit correct it's a two-level occurs it's not so it's not a basement unit per se it's a two-level unit what the the basement is fully below grade and and has bedrooms downstairs and up correct there's bedrooms on both the first floor and the basement level but the window well gives you access out directly okay any other questions from the board yeah mr. Goodman are you planning to call any trees on the property i'm going to read the bbd recommendation and they are mentioning a lot something something about keeping the trees yeah they're not they're not changing any trees anything from the footprint all the work is interior to the to the house thank you thank you ma'am public testimony hi yes good afternoon madam chair members of the board my name is Tiffany Gauayato i am the Jamaica plainly he's on from the mayor's office of neighbor services and a buzz meeting was facilitated by our office on Thursday November 10th of last year they received support from the Jamaica plain neighborhood council zoning subcommittee back on December 7th of 2022 I wear a bit of opposition and we like to one record deferring to the judgment of this board thank you thank you madam chair members of the board of policy council a lot of microplarity do the knowing having no no opposition as well as the support from the gp and c council do a record support thank you any other Francis raised hands okay with that may i have a motion madam chair i make a motion to approve we promise we have not been in no meeting code it's allowed no building code relief yeah okay ma'am second second okay mr. Shepherd mr. Valencia yes mr. Stembridge yes mr. Collins yes miss Benado yes this is all of air yes chair also votes yes the motion carries yes thank you thank you when we're going to case b 0 a 1 3 9 2 5 8 8 you dress being 5 to 7 perkins avenue it's the applicant to represent the president anyone present for five to seven persons avenue okay if not let's keep moving on we can circle back madam chair i think that's you can dismiss without regents if you like but we could wait for the end um i'll i'll I'll entertain a motion for denial without practice okay excuse me for wind up i'm sorry about that i see five to seven perkins street this up this is attorney jelson feast there okay that's you okay no yeah yeah i uh what i had that one now so i can speak to you okay fine do a follow it's okay it's a long day mr. feast there is i'm sure you know thank you for your indulgence i know it's been a long day all of you do that jelson feast at the low firm of dain torpy 175 state street and Boston greetings to madam chair and the members of the board once again this is a project which the applicant has been wanting to to erect a two townhouses on five to seven perkins street and combining a lot and nine perkins street as well you're combining four lots in order to put two townhouses on here uh principally uh you know the applicant intends to be building a townhouse for her son and has had the community support which i'm sure that may as well to name a service system speak to but i wanted to have the architect um um allen chris that be uh to present to you the project as we are proposing so allen if you could go ahead uh as allen been placed into a presenter yes he has okay allen go ahead allen if you can you may be on new allen yes hi okay um hi my name is allen chris and i'm the architect for five to seven perkins avenue uh five to seven perkins avenue sits on the corner of perkins avenue and river streets and hide park um if we could go to slide number seven the site plan here we go uh the two new units that were proposing occupy 4,664 square feet of the 8,168 square foot site this results in an fa of 0.57 which slightly exceeds the 0.50 requirement for the two half five thousand zone the goal of the project uh was to knit together the street skates of both perkins av and river street with two four bedrooms two and a half bath semi attached units that took their design cues from the adjacent structures of the neighborhood we're asking for variances for two elements the rear set back in this location which is ten feet as designed and uh as well as the 0.57 flurry ratio and if i could just go to slide 11 to quickly run through the plans oh keep going the next slide is okay uh the plans here it's two story semi attached units uh each with their own garage the living spaces are an open plan arrangement the first floor each has a covered porch at the entry uh and ample light on three sides if we could go to the next slide uh the second floor plan uh we have the four bedrooms the stair here and then the two bathrooms so it's a fairly simple arrangement with the party wall between the two units uh so if we could go back to slide i'm sorry these are out of word slide number four context uh there we go oh nope all right the one with the pictures there uh okay the intent of the design is to create a aesthetic continuity with the adjacent structures the use of gable roofs and clover clotting is prevalent in the area and the design seeks to create aesthetic continuity in the area through its material palette and facade articulation which incorporates incorporates red clotting that relates to the color palette of the existing nine perkins out new house while utilizing red board and batten clotting at the double roof's pretty chow's that so if you could go to slide three the street elevation uh keep going uh they're that one let's see uh so here you can see the street elevation uh where we have the clover clotting below here and then the double gables on each house here with board and batten clotting that is evoking the articulation of the existing adjacent nine perkins out new home um at the project um uses casement windows to provide connection to the outdoor spaces and acts might be a minority in each space and zinc clotting at the roof while the base provides some material variation and texture on each pathot um the project seeks to add to an active and very street scape in the area if you could go back one slide through the rendering another way another way okay uh projects seek to add to an active and very street scape in the area by aligning the facades parallel to each street while providing large entry porches for each unit as well as jogs in the massing and projecting bays at each house to ensure that the scale both units resonates with the scale of the adjacent houses the grogges have been recessed a few feet from the main mass of each house and our clotting of muted gray board and batten to ensure that the houses and their associate entry porches read as the primary elements to buy in the streetscape we chose not to meet the 40 foot rear setback for the site because doing so would eliminate almost the entire buildable footprint for the property and we thought it was critical to provide a continuous street scape at this corner as a counter balancing measure we tried to utilize the larger side yards to the degree possible to provide open space thank you for your time in consideration and i'll now cause to ask for questions from the board thank you mr. Collins have you reviewed the plans and have the plans are adequate any any specific questions from the board okay hearing none may i take public testimony that afternoon madam chair members of the board this is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services i hosted an a butters meeting for this project on December 12th of 2022 all the butters that were present had all positive things to say about the applicants and the project they've been long time residents and very active in the community so everyone at the a butters meeting was in support they also reached out to the factory home neighborhood association there was no concern there so at this time we wish to defer judgments to the board thank you thank you thank you we have a new madam chair members of the board joining for you here for the council to record our royals office we'd like to go on record and support at this proposal thank you thank you i have no-bodies to ask madam chair okay uh bpda recommends approval with proviso that plans be submitted to bpda for design review with attention to increasing rear yard setback uh with that may i have a motion madam chair motion through a program with proviso that bpda the plans design thank you uh may i have a second second mr shepherd mr. volencia yes mr. stembridge yes mr. Collins yes miss panato yes miss olivia yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you very much members of the board have a great rest of the afternoon maybe into the night let's pray not that's not funny you can talk to miss darby madam banana more moving on moving on let's keep keep a quicker briefcase chase b o a one three three seven seven four eight the address is 388 to 390 blue hill avenue is the applicant or the or represent the president yes go right here yes sir please yes yes i this subcris the models um this in existing building that we had come before the board i believe it was back in 2016 to legalize the existing restaurant that's there located as well as another retail store with a two apartments above it um so we have to legalize a change of occupancy we went through a community process with miss santana and then as well we came to mr cunzel we haven't got a meeting with him as well where we received commune to support and went over the plans and uh proposal okay mr. Collins any questions on the plans now join your adequate any questions from the board all right with that i'm going to take public testimony yes but afternoon madam chair our quesia santana with the mayor's office and the services and a federal meeting was held and we met with the local civics where they got provided a letter a letter of support from the members of interval normative our president's association and along with project right as well um they met with the applicants back in 2016 and um submitted letters of support in 2017 some of this project has gone on prior to me stepping into this role but there is a law support community and at this point we'll introduce the participants before thank you thank you any other raised hands okay okay may i have a motion madam chair i'm sorry is there a raise here? there are two raised hands okay please christ you've been unmuted if you can state your name and i'll just put the record please my name is christ the models 619 in summer spring you can make a plan that yeah i think he's the proponent i think he's the component yes exactly so uh councilor world's office won't play mike i have um mike you've been unmuted mike i'm sorry councilor let councilor okay right speak thank you madam chair good evening madam chair members of the board my name is iamidiel we love in councilor world's office in regards to three eight three nine three two four four um with the applicant having support both based in intervillain civic associations as well as on various letters of support but councilor likes a lot of recording support in this project thank you you said there's one more raised hand princess yes mike this is my co-close with project right 320 letter eight love new word support good lord thank you thank you all without me i have a motion motion till proof may i have a second so i can mr shepherd yes mr valencia yes mr mr. smerch uh yes yes thank you mr. Collins yes mr. nato yes marzalovie yes chair also votes yes motion carries thank you very much that's case the next three cases okay okay first being case b o a 136 1754 address 26 St. Almond road next being case b o a 136 1753 the address of 28 St. Almond road and the last of these are case case b o a 138 7903 the address of 773 to 775 8 points in after it's the applicant or representative president i will ask the applicant to please uh you know focus on the slides that are relevant uh we are it's a long day for us all thank you i see david's the applicant can see your dates or course uh can can he be unmuted or recognized this is yes he's unmuted go ahead david okay can you speak up mr. munkin back you also need you to speak up all right can you hear me at all you softly yes okay uh you're i'm here all right go ahead david all right appreciate it uh sorry i'm just getting as a panelist uh good afternoon thank you but i'm chair in the board members for the opportunity to speak about this important affordable housing project in mission hill and the variances that we're seeking to support it my name is davigorth at 50 summer street in Boston i'm a project manager i've got peter munkin back as you saw Karen gaitley who's the executive director of the ruxberry tense of harvard to karen Hodges who's our architect the stan tech and joe libert our attorney uh as noted while this is one project we're covering three companion parcels um it will or this project will replace the vacant parking lot along hunting to david o and mission hill with a contextually designed a hundred and twelve unit building containing 57 affordable rental units 55 affordable and market rate home ownership units the 29 hundred square feet of retail space 74 percent of the units will be affordable to incomes between 30 and 120 percent area median income below ground there will be 20 parking spaces and the bpda required to continue to park bike parking um as you can see from this slide it's a jason tie employment centers and transit in front of the great uh the green line t station um and immediately adjacent to the lma and the ruxberry tenets of harvard a non-profit sponsor of this project and owner of many of the adjacent parcels our residents living here will have access to the numerous playgrounds and parks maintained by the ruxberry tenets of harvard and they will have access to the ruxberry tenets of harvard community center which features a full size basketball court fitness center dance studio and youth lounge uh the building will be built to passive house standards um was approved by the boston civic design commission the bpda board um has undergone an extensive community uh input process as part of article 80 if you go to the next slide uh before handing it off to the design team uh i just want to show you the parcels and how they're getting uh put together um it cuts across a three f two thousand uh in the rear and uh neighborhood shopping in the front um at once combined it'll be about fourteen thousand nine hundred and ten square feet uh and you can see that we are taking uh the rear uh a lot of twenty six and twenty eight saint albans uh highlighted in red and we are combining it with the parcel that is in the front along honeyton avenue uh to create one parcel uh that will support this project uh the ruxberry tenets of harvard owns all three of these parcels uh currently twenty six and twenty eight saint albans are multi-family housing with two units each and the buildings on those parcels will remain unchanged as part of this project um and uh ultimately um we are just um going to be transferring it simultaneously as we move this project forward um we are seeking uh on twenty six and twenty eight saint albans um we're seeking three variances uh for twenty eight saint albans and four for twenty six saint albans um and then we're seeking five variances as noted for seven seventy three to seven seventy five honeyton uh but those are as part of the record we comply with all other zoning variant so zoning requirements um and i'll hand it off to her and Hodges for a quick presentation just about the building thanks bays hi everyone if you could go to page three uh the ground floor of the project is proposing significant improvement of the um of the existing site condition if you go actually go two more pages forward this is an illustrative plan showing us uh creating new sidewalk preserving existing trees adding new pedestrian connection to the north west portion of the rth campus and creating significant amount of uh the community commercial space as well as a entrance to the residential portion of the project that's up above um next page we are showing in addition to the honeyton street frontage public ground improvement we're also proposing a pedestrian bomb out of the uh sandwood and honeyton corner and adding blue bikes to further improve pedestrian space the and transit friendliness uh the building itself on the next page uh we are showing a few renderings of the building as uh updated design working with the community working with dpda design staff and the bcdc to push the uh height of the building back from honeyton ab while filling in a missing tooth on the band of uh honeyton ab where it's currently used as a parking um surface parking law so with the building pushed back the uh three-story podium is consistent with the existing brick facade up and down the uh the street and uh with our facade if you go to the next page majority of the facade is also crediting this very finely detailed brick consistent with the contact material that's using the neighboring building in uh honeyton ab and the yong so with that we just want to end on the program of the project it's a breakdown on the last page again we're providing 112 112 new homes uh 55 of those will be count of 57 will be rentals with a high percentage of affordable um the AMI breakdown is on the bottom left side of the page thank you for your time we're open to any questions at this point thank you so much uh is there anyone from bpda that's on from this project okay uh doesn't seem I would report that we have completed the article 80 process uh and we received that vote in in uh in august vote uh a vote of approval a vote of approval from the bpda in august thank you sorry we're missing we're just missing that uh any questions from the board okay well you think on that uh let's take public just the money hello madam chair members the board magnavian squirtman mayor's office of neighborhood services at this time our office would like to defer to the judgment of this board these proposals were covered by the article 80 process for 775 huntington f the roxbury tenants of harvard community was consulted throughout the process and our office is unaware of any concerns at this time thank you thank you Francis and the other no raised hands on the chair okay all right with that may I have a motion do you approve doc and okay mr. shepherd mr. valencia yes mr. stembridge yes mr. Collins yes mr. nato yes mr. levier yes okay the chair votes just motion carries i know it's been a long day but uh for for the sake of folks bladders i'm gonna suggest a five minute break and you can become me yeah thank you all you you you you you you you you you you you you you you presentation very quickly. I am here with Mario Signorio who is the principal of Greenline Craft Cannabis who is the developer and proponent of this new project. Also with me is Michael Starr who is the project architect from TWR Partners and Joseph Carter from Wind Locker who worked on the security plan, which you'll see just briefly to give you some background here. So this is one of the first ground up cannabis production and cultivation facilities in the city of Boston. It is not a retail proposal. This is for manufacturing, production, cultivation use approximately 47,882 square feet in a new building that ranges in height between 58 and 64 feet, which is under the allowable zoning height with 24 parking spaces. This project due to its scale for a ground up new construction went through the BPDA's article 80 small project review process where we had scoping of its design and its appropriateness as well as mitigation with respect to the project itself approved by the BPDA board in September of 2022. The city also issued a HCA agreement under the cannabis regulations in 2018. And this applicant was before the zoning board in 2009 and approved for this conditional use but would be what was then proposed to be a smaller structure. Then we then went back through the process and what is before you today is the current proposal. We are in the new market NDA zone which restricts the use as conditional, again limited to manufacturing and production. And we are complying with all of its dimensional controls, need a minor relief for the existing building alignment which was processed through the article 80 process and for the parking which is appropriate considering this transit location and the various programming that you'll hear in the presentation. Final thing I will say is we have also in support of this use worked very closely with through the process with Windmawker, with the community, the BPDA to have a very refined security plan and protocol and operations. With that I would like to ask Mario to take you through the presentation very quickly. Mario? Sure. Not sure if you guys hear me? Yes we can if you can walk us forward quickly. Absolutely. Get out of your members' report. We go to supply three please. Great. I'm Mario Svignore the developer. I will quickly through this. This is an aerial view of the lot in discussion. As you can see it is an industrial area with parking lots, industrial recycling waste management, commercial development to the west and the small part to the west. Next slide please. The lot is currently being used for storage and construction equipment. It's not contributing to the neighborhood in any way at this time. Developing this lot with our project will create a begin for Boston to enter the cannabis industry. Instead of jobs and opportunities only open up people to live hours away. We have cars bringing the opportunity right to Boston. Developing this site will create jobs, opportunity and security. This time I would like to pass the presentation over to Michael, Star of TWR Architecture. Thank you, Mario. We can go to the next slide. We'll look at the site plan and the first floor plan. As you can see we pulled the building back from the property line. This dash there along Hampton and Norfolk to create landscape buffer and sidewalk for community connectivity. We've provided spaces for bike parking near the main entrance. We have landscaping and trees along both Hampton and Norfolk Street there. In addition to the 24 covered parking spots that you can see on the bottom side of the plan there. On the right side we have shipping and receiving with bay doors opening towards Reading Street and where we can back in a 40 foot truck for deliveries and shipments and still have the ability to keep it out of traffic. There will be no issues along Reading Street there for deliveries and shipments. Next slide please. Second floor plan. That's where all the cultivation spaces exist. Next slide please. So on the top level we have administrative spaces, production spaces and a training room on the right side. We have placed the rooftop mechanical equipment in an area that shielded from all sides of the streets so that they're completely invisible from the street and also will contain the noise on that side of the building as well. Next slide please. Building elevations. I'm a modern industrial style of the mixture of colors, textures and materials. We added glazing at every practical location to maximize the visual transparency of the building from the streets and enhance the neighborhood aesthetic, sun shades, overall the windows at depth and reduce heat gain and interior glare. Next slide please. So existing view from Hampton Street. Next slide and this is a view from the same location showing the north side of the building. Next slide please. In the opposite side of Hampton as it exists now. Next slide. And as would be constructed there you can see sun shades, the glazing that's added contrasting materials and textures and the trees that have been added to the landscape upper. Next slide please. View from Northford Street as it exists now. Next slide. And view with the building in place. Next slide please. And I'm going to kick it back to Mario to wrap things up. Great thank you very much. It's not really important for us to have employees from our community but local employees will be what our company is all about to do that. We need them to have the easy access to work without needing to own the car. We also plan to participate with our employees on best practices of public transportation to and from work due to our central location. This will include a center of the cyclist and people who use public transportation. Next slide please. This will be a lead new construction gold performance building we're working with energy specialist optimizer electrical use. Besides high efficiency, age back and LED and solar panels with our medical local trust will also be using water repination to go cultivation. Next slide please. Besides working with CNC from the day we break ground to hire people from the community to help build this facility will be creating 50 plus construction jobs. We have a commitment to hiring preference for people with color from the local community. We'll work with training programs like cultivate ed and big hope project for training and expansion programs. We'll also be holding job fairs advertising local community pain first working with local colleges, trade schools, universities and working with everyone we can to make our search for divorce workforce prolific. We'll work with new market business improvement district for additional area clean ups and needle patrols and security and a lot of these jobs I'm talking about are going to be available to people with no prior cannabis experience. We'll create a transfer of old jobs with old wages in addition to this we've identified black service contractors for our steelwork, painting, landscaping, pest control and waste removal. Next slide please. Sorry if I'm going too fast. Sorry I'm for questions at the end I just know everyone's really tired. Windwalker group is an award-winning minority on small business providing unparalleled services building security design, concierge services, security guards access control and cannabis consulting. Next slide please. Windwalker has created an extensive security plan that exceeds all state requirements including access control, man, trap, surveillance and more to apply with 935 CMR 501 which are the state cannabis control regulations for security. Next slide please. This is a dry ground just showing a little bit of our surveillance security measures including camera placements, secured door access and exterior monitoring. Our priority is insecurity and community and what we believe we've exceeded that. Next slide please. I'd like to pass back to Joe. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Oaks-Mario. And just to conclude, the zoning that is required minimal issue, we are complying with all of the dimensional constraints under the building height under the FAR within the setbacks. We do need relief for the parking requirement which is supported by the slides and the transit oriented locate back that we're within for the six minute walk of nine bus lines and three quarters of the mildly in the TAs new market station and how the project is being programmed and operated. Otherwise the code required 96 spaces which is someone who has been updated and unnecessary with respect to the use conditional use, again approved by the board back in 2019 but also in support of the specific request consistent with the NDA's purpose for job creation in the new market, sub district and also supported by the very proper detailed and developed security plans and operations that is the result of this extensive process through the article lady process. And finally the existing building alignment, there are no structures that are significant there today. So we work closely with the BPA through that process to assure that our building new building alignment was consistent with that of the character in the context of the surrounding area. Thank you. Thank you. All right I know it's a long day but are there any questions from the board? Yes Madam Chair. Yes sir. This looks very nice. In terms of the jobs if I look exactly you'll be up to 100 jobs. With those B full time, part time, mixed year of all. So combination of everything, sir, there will be hybrid jobs, remote marketing, marketing, there will be people who come to the site every day, seven days a week. But if there's a combination of cultivation, manufacturing, marketing, wholesaling, jobs, yes. Thank you. And just to confirm this is production and cultivation only no sales. Correct. When I say sales as host, not retail. And that also sort of helps to drive the job incubator if you will not that retail is an important but certain production and manufacturing and our array of opportunities from planning and advancement. Thank you. And I just can't imagine just to note that we do have let us point from what you've got in the Residence Association, the new market, business association, and two local business. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes. Yes. The other projects proposed in several community benefits, especially financial contributions to programs for organizations. So the question is when are those benefits going to be effective? When is your project going to deliver those funds to the organizations that you are making commitments? So far at this time, I've been involved with several of the organizations. But on going and what continue to do so. But the actual benefits from Greenline will go to the community groups that we're talking about. Once we become operational, we start generating revenue. But for the past four years, sorry. I was just going to say for the past four years, I've been involved with multiple groups, including CMT, notebooks, no voluntary walkers organization, and a few other groups just on my own in the area that haven't even been involved with Greenline. Getting ready, building up the relationships, and preparing to be a part of the community. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that there is a timeline for the leeway rental benefits. Yeah, I guess it's all in paper. Yeah, so there are two sets of contributions. One, we are governed and restricted by what we can do under the HCA, the House Community Agreement with the City, which was signed in 2018. So 3% of the revenue is directed to community programming, things pursuant to the HCA. In addition to that, there's another 200,000 in benefits that are being paid related to the project itself through the article 80 development process. And that's in the board memo. But it includes intersection improvements to hand in street nor for GAV. Also includes a blue bike contribution, which again, mitigate parking. Thank you. I just wanted to know if there is a timeline, if there is a way for the project to be used to make it possible. And there's also parts contribution to it. So thank you. Okay, thank you. So let's take public testimony now. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Keisha Santana with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This project went through the BPDA community process. So our office didn't facilitate it, but we were informed that there was overall community support. And there were no, no concerns brought to our office. And at this point, we would like to defer adjustments to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raised hands? I have seven raised hands. Eight raised hands. Okay, well, okay, well, we're going to try to take four and go from there. Okay, thank you. Sean, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record, please. All right, Michael. Yep, Michael, you've been unmuted if you can your name and address for the record, please. Hello there, Michael Felburn, 152 hand in street. Are you speaking in support or opposition? Yeah, I'd like to speak briefly in support. I've been running a business there since 2016. The hand in street corridor, we've been doing a lot of work on to get more light and activity. So these kids who walk up the street to school buses from orchard gardens feel like they have a home and a community. And we're getting there. And there's a development across the street that's making it nice. Mario's development is going to clean up the site that's just a whole really just a vacant site. He's also going to build a nice barrier between a transfer station and a recycle yard. And suddenly, kids who live in Rocksbury are going to walk up and down a lit up street with nice buildings. And that's the community benefits that I look for. I know we all want money. Everyone wants a piece of the action I get it. Community benefits to me are the kids in Rocksbury walking up that street feeling good about where they live. And that's why I want to support this. I'm doing it to my building. Mario's going to do it and others are doing it. Please keep roaming this neighborhood in a positive direction. Thank you, sir. Next time. Sean, you're muted. Go ahead and get some changes for the way you're doing. Yeah, can you hear me? Yes, we can. Okay, sorry about that. And I'll be concise. My name is Sean Fonds. I was located at 100 Cambridge Street, Boston, Mass. I'm a local attorney and I am also vice president of the community mentoring team, which Mario referred. And I can assure you that as myself and the president, Bill Morand, who's a panel in the community, we are completely in support of Mario and this project. And as Mario indicated, he has been supporting our workforce development program with over 100 mentees for the last four years. So and we're confident that he's going to continue to do that and continue to be a himself, a pillar in that building, a pillar in the community. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Zebra, you've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address for the record, please. All right, MVP, transport. You've been unmuted. If you can state your name and address, please. We'll end. Zebra? I've been murky having with the new market business improvement district. I am here to speak in support. Mario and his team are excellent members of the community. They are and always have been extremely active with new market and all of the other organizations surrounding us in this neighborhood. We think that this is a fantastic proposal that he's put forward and support it. and extremely strongly. Thank you, Mr. Murphy. All right, that way you're unmuted. So how does that get even in the list of right-back points? Thank you. Yes, my name is Deborah Tenet. I have a bit of nine more ways to make a claim. I give full support to this project, and I believe that Mario will continue to do what he states to him. Thank you, Ms. Tenet. With any other questions from the ward, if not, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Mr. Schaffer. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Is Olivier? Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next case is BOA 149593. It's dressed being 744-746 East Eighth Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Good afternoon. My name is Attorney Sean Regan of McDermott Quillty Miller with the business address of 28th State Street here on behalf of the applicant, James Kingston. The proposal before you today seeks to improve the preexisting structure that you see here that which consisted of two units and five bedrooms and a height of two stories or 26 feet and three inches. The improvements include a third floor addition which will result in a structure consisting of two units, six bedrooms and a height of three stories or 36 feet and one inch. The third floor addition consists of a master bedroom for the top unit with an unsweeted bathroom and a small front porch. During the community process, a butters expressed concern over the size of the proposed porch and therefore it was reduced in size by half from 12 by 20 to 6 by 20. Our requests for relief include three instances under South Boston's unique roof structure restriction section 6829 which require conditional approval for any proposal that alters an existing roof line. The two remaining requests for relief under Article 68, Section 8 for open space and rare yard are both existing non-conformities. We would also like to note here that we are height and FAR compliance. While we do not require relief for extending living space into the basement by way of bedrooms, we are cognizant of the sensitivities around them that this board has had and therefore we have insured, we were tired to ensure that the proposal remains consistent with the BPDA recommendation and we have designed the bedrooms to comply with Massachusetts building code. Each bedroom will have code compliance address, eight-foot sailings and approximately six windows spread across that have sills no more than 44 inches above the floor. And last for the record, I will note that we submitted a number of letters of support from mediate subodder of mediate letters. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Union. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, Mayor Public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Our office held in a butters meeting on December 7th, 2022. It was very well attended with a number of butters presence. We heard some butters in support and some in opposition. The applicant forward us 18 letters of support which the board should have asked to as well. We also understand that the City Point Neighborhood Association voted to oppose this proposal as they do with all road decks, with family and deferred to the judgment board at this time. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Anna Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The council would like to go on recording support, but acknowledging the response, support, and opposition in the community and with the civic group, but Council President Flings remains opposed to road deck proposals due to the quality of live issues that have arisen for years in terms of loud parties and trash removal issues. If you need to propose us one of our front deck due to the deferred issue with the project, however, the proponents of secondly decreased the size of their road deck in half upon community feedback to help alleviate long-standing neighborhood concerns. Council flings support based on this compromise and this view that this is more of a front deck proposal due to the addition. Should the proponent come forward with plans to expand that in the future, the councilor will oppose at that time. Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Any other raise hands? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solven, City Councilor Lodge, Michael Flaredey, echoing the sentiments, Council, Flings Office, as well as recognizing the community law enforcement and the community law enforcement and the community law enforcement that went into drafting the original article 68. The councilor would like to go on record and support there are projects that do have merit, even if there are violations of the article 68, and echoing the sentiments, Council, Flings Office, Council, Dewell, and Record and Support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand. Luan, can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes, good afternoon. My name is Luan O'Connor, President of the City Point neighborhood, and I do want to go on record stating that City Point does not oppose all roof decks. We oppose roof decks that do not fit into the neighborhood. So with that, the City Point neighborhood association had the proponent come in. He presented well. I do want to give credit that he did scale back the roof deck. It's being referred to as a porch. It's not a porch. It's on the roof. It's a roof deck. And I would have rather had seen the proponent come back to put on a full third story edition, versus a bedroom with a bathroom and this particular roof deck. Unfortunately, it appears that can't happen because there are windows in the direct building beside it, which is about 12 inches away from the existing building. So with that said, we are in fact opposing it because, as some of the abouters had said, and some of the members have voted, that particular room can easily have a kitchen put into it and turn into a party room. So that's where we stand. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And BPD's recommendation is approval with provisos that plans be submitted to agency for design review that no building code relief be granted with attention to maintaining consistency with character of original building elements. With that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve with the APTA design review. I need you to repeat some of these provisos. I'm sure that no building code relief be granted and with attention to maintaining consistency with character of original building elements. Thank you. That's my motion. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. All right. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. And just to note that we do have those letters of support that the Office of the Neighborhood Services is. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Parnato. Mr. Parnato. Yes. Sorry. All day. I miss all of you. Yes. All right. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you all. Have a great day. Next we have case B.O.A.1433590. Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair. Members of board on Peter Cohansky from курston and stores. 400 Atlantic Avenue in Boston. Representing our client the Asian community development corporation. Just the designated developer of this 100% affordable housing project. project on land owned by the BPDA and Chinatown. I'm joined by Peter Munkinbeck or ACDC and Aaron Hodges from Stand Tech, the project's architect. I'll give just a brief introduction and then turn it over to Aaron. Please. Thank you. I have to ask something for clarification. Is this the same address as 4963? I miss the address that you're asking about. 4963? Yes. It's a collection of parcels with a bunch of different addresses. It's also known as parcel R1 within the... Yes. It's listed as 55 to 57 Hudson Street. That's why he's asking. That's right. You can really name him on how they owe it at least. That's right. It's a collection of street addresses. Thank you. Yes, please. Please, please. Keep going. Yeah. So parcel R1 is currently a surface parking lot owned by the BPDA. It's been a subject of a community planning process for several years, which identified the site for affordable housing. The BPDA is here to request for proposals in 2021. ACDC was designated as the developer by the BPDA board in April of 2022. The project involves the creation of 110 residential units, expected to be a mix of rental units and for sale condominiums. 100% of the units will be affordable. The project also includes 17,000 square feet on the ground floor and the second floor for a new Chinatown branch of the Boston Public Library, which is going to be a tremendous resource for the neighborhood. There is no on-site parking in connection with the project. It was approved by the BPDA under large project review in December. So I just wanted to briefly mention the items of zoning relief because there are a couple of wrinkles. We require a building variance for building height. We require exceptions from design requirements for street wall height and skyplane setback because the building goes all the way out to the 155 foot height and doesn't set back after 125 feet. And then we need a groundwater conditional use permit. The project was cited for three other items of zoning relief that it will not need when article 80 is complete. But IST cited the project for them nonetheless. One is FAR. Underlying zoning has a maximum FAR of 6. But that's increased to 8 for projects that go through article 80 review, which this will. Since we're not quite out the other end of article 80. We were cited for an FAR violation but will be under the FAR of 8. We were cited for off-street parking. As you know, the code based on recent amendments states that there's no on-site parking required for affordable housing projects. ISD cited us for that violation because I guess there's not yet an affordable housing restriction on the property. But there will be by the time the project is developed. And then lastly, the code says that loading is set during large project review. Again, not quite done with large project review because we're not at construction drawings yet. But we were cited for loading. There are no off-street loading base. Loading will be on the street off of Tyler Street. So with that, I'll turn it over to Aaron for a quick architectural presentation. Thank you, Peter. On this page, this is a quick overview of the site contact. We are writing the heart of the Chinatown neighborhood. And the buildings around us is in the existing dance urban neighborhood. And on the building massing itself, it's a tall story building. And if you go to the next page, it shows the ground floor. The lower portion of the building is the two-story podium. And the south side of that podium is going to be housing the much anticipated BPL Chinatown branch. And the north portion of the podium is going to be the residential lobby as well as building services. The above 75th-needlands street building is the office building. And the residential upper portion of the massing is that fact significantly from the property line to create a buffer to that building. So with the ground floor, what you can see is there is again a significant public roaming improvement with planting, feeding, and access point into the building, the arancents there, because we are complying with the coastal flood resilience guideline to lift the building out of the floodplain. Across the street, from Hutton, just slightly south, our public realm is going to connect seamlessly to the one-gringway park, just diagonal from us. And next up, there are a few views from Hutton Street, looking north at the project, page four. The building is going to be cladded again in green and red brick. The frontage on the left side image is showing the pedestrian zone with planting, feeding, and access to the programs within. Very similarly, the next page is standing now on Tyler Street looking north at the project. This is the Tyler Street frontage of the Boston Public Library. And then a few shots of the deco of the brick for staff for the residential program of the bus. And then the next page is a really good depiction of the design concept of the project, which is taken from a Chinese home from the 980, where the author depicts his optimism while sailing down a wide river flanking by Green Hill during his first trip to the capital city. And with this, our vision for the project is not only to create a very elevated public realm, but also a iconic building that people in the neighborhood can identify with. With that, the last page shows you a overview of the program. Again, we're 100% affordable combination of rentals and condo units, 110 units total splitting between the 10th floors about the podium. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. Any questions regarding the variances or anything else from the board? Madam Chair, this is Havier. I think Christian Sam and Melius here. OK. Good work, Laura. Yes, please, Christian. Yes, Madam Chairman, this is the board. Good afternoon, Christian Smalley, Boston Railroad Trust. And we have both G-Cod letters from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any questions from the board? All right. Can I take public testimony? Francis, is anyone here to speak and support our operation? Hi, Madam Chair. Can I start? Yes, go ahead. I don't have anybody's time to ask. OK. Please, you want to know. Hi, Madam Chair, I'm Sherry Dawg. And I'm the CBA board. My name is Shulam Farah from Marist office and I was services. The community process first project took place over the course of several years. A letter of intent was found in August of 2022. Subsequently, numerous public meetings were held by the BPA, where the community showed their universal support for this project. The proposed project aims to bring several benefits to community, including affordable housing, and a new branch, and a new chat sound branch at the Boston Public Library. However, there were some concerns raised about the lack of green space and the proposed projects. Some community members felt that green spaces are essential for promoting health and well-being should be given due consideration in any development projects. Nevertheless, overwhelming community support, the Boston Planning and Development Agency BBA board voted to approve the spargeites in December 2022. With that said, at this time, we would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Diana Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The council would like to go on recurring support. This proposal will provide much more affordable housing, and it will also include 7,700 square foot for the Chinatown branch of the public library and the first two floors of the building. This is based on a neighborhood who has been anticipating for several years. This development will also maintain the socio-economic diversity in Chinatown by expanding the number of affordable units, thereby helping working families and neighbors of different income levels to remain in the neighborhood. It will also strengthen the cultural vibrancy of Chinatown by finally bringing basic city services and equity to this proud immigrant community in the form of a permanent branch of the public library. Thank you. Thank you. Any other testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, I'll solve into the Council of Lies, Michael Flarry, Edwin Sentiments of Council President Flings Office, Council of the Long Record and Support. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Frances? OK. All right. And I want to say as someone who, myself, I'm involved with Chinatown community that a branch of public library has been spoken about for at least two decades, so more than a few years. And it's been difficult to find a home for it. So this project looks to do that. With that, any may I have a motion from the board? I'm ceramic. I'm motion to approve the project. Second. Thank you. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. No, I'm sorry. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Pignato. Yes. Ms. Olivea. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next case is BOA 139-0812. Adress being two blatant plates. Is the applicant representing two present? Yes. Andrew. Stop. Can present. Yes. Andrew. Thank you. We thank you for your patience. So please, we're looking forward to hearing from you. Hi. Good evening. I'm chair and me in result of the board. My name is San Juan. I live at 52 Medcav street and Med square mass. I'm the owner of RCworks LLC. The applicant represented the owner just to bla應, place in Chalsen, and this request is for mobile variance to the grill yard insufficient intention is to tear down the existing small platform stairs to build and on install a new packing, patio and fancy. The deck will be 96 inches by 150 inches by 96. The deck platform made out of composite material in production 3D to wood for the owner used. The setback requirement for my particular now compliant lot of recordings for feet. However, I'm requesting a variance of six inches to the ray of the property to permit the construction of a foot deck. That we will leave a dish of six inches of separation by a common fence in the common shared alley. The proposed projects involved the replacement of the fence of all sides of the property and new fence access door. There will be an improvement for the neighborhood as a result of the overall increase of property value and to the whole neighborhood. We had no opposition for our neighbors neither. So thank you. I'll take any questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Proves you're adequate. Thank you. Francis, any public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Brin with the Mayors Office of the neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process and this office has received no letters such support or opposition with that you would prefer judgment to avoid. We would defer each other on the board, sorry. Any other testimony? Okay, here in that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Thank you, Mr. Shepard. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Stambridge. Yes, but to note, Madam Chair, we did, there was a letter of opposition and most likely went straight to the board of appeal. Okay, Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Olivia. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Okay, last case of the day. I think I'll leave. Okay, I can't help myself with the drum roll for the last case of the day. That would be BOA 142 3407. The address of 102 Bremen Street is the applicant or representative president. Wally. Wally, go ahead, state your name and address please. Let me go ahead and speak. I'm sorry. Cool. All right, applicant, you are the last one. So we really want to hear from you. Yeah, I'm. Wally, you unmuted. We don't hear you. Press is can you unmute Rachel Ray-Mos? That's his daughter, so she might be presenting. Okay. Go ahead, Rachel. You've been unmuted. Hi, I'm standing in front of my dad, Wally. He's actually in the meeting, but I don't think he knows how to use zoom. That's okay. Can you present on the project? Yes, so right now the house has always been a three family. I will use this as a three family. I'm going to be able to do that. I think it's been a three family. I will use this as a three family, but we actually need the permit to make it officially a three family. All right, questions on the plans, Mr Collins. The plans are adequate. The only question I did. So when you guys, when you bought it, it was existing, correct? Yes, so it was all right. There's no work that needs to be done. The house has been in the family for years. So right now we are selling the house, but we need that permit saying it's actually a three family. Each apartment is separate and they everything separate in each place. So all the electrical, everything separated already. So there wouldn't be any work being done. Go. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? All right, if not, may I hear testimony? I would have to noon or good evening. I'm sure members of the board and that's how many it's as with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I want to host it in a butter's meeting for this proposal on January 10, 2023. No letters were in attendance and are office is unaware of any concerns at this point. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you so much. Thank you. Any other raise hands, Francis? All right, hearing none. Hearing none, I'm going to ask for a vote. Motion. Motion. Second. All right, I know there are 10 seconds. Mr. Schoffer. Sorry, Mr. Schoffer. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. I will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. Olivia. Yes. All right, the chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everyone, for staying on and thank you for all the presenters for staying on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.