 All right, Madam Chair, the floor is yours. Thank you. Good evening. The City of Boston zoning Board of Appeals subcommittee for, let's see July 21st, 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature. The new law allows the Board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 31st, 2023. This hearing of the Board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the Board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Notice that the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation material when speaking. This is a strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the Board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the Board prefers here from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who love closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button. On the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform, click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, if you are connected by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state the name and address first and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Portion reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Let me just take a quick roll call, Mr. Fortune. Meeting Madam Chair, good to see you. Good to see you, Mr. Alec. Yep, I'm here. Excellent. So it's for go ahead, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. First order is any deferrals or withdrawals for any of the five o'clock cases. If you can give me the address first, please. Hi, um, Tarenbone. Oh, sorry, 330 K Street. Thank you for the record calling B.O.A. 134 3120 330 K Street. And what's the reason for your request? We are still working with the neighborhood and neighbors based on feedback at the butter's meeting for a garnishing continued support. Okay. May I have a motion please? Make a motion for the parole. Sorry, Mr. Alec. Second. Are you meeting with the community this month? Or do you already meet with them? Because we can do either an August date or a September date. Yeah, we would like to do the August 18th date, I believe it is. We already met with them and we're just meeting with. Okay, go to August 18th at five. This is the fortune. May I have your official vote? Sorry, we have to go through this. Yes, hi. Mr. Alec. Hi. Around your eye. Are there any up? Sorry, but the date is 18 at same at five o'clock. Correct. Are there any other deferrals that would draw us for the five o'clock cases? Hearing none, I'll call the first case. Calling D.O.A.128 6603 99 cottage street. This is to replace an existing roof deck. The violation is article 27T-5. This is in the East Boston iPod and article 53, section 52, room structure restrictions. May I have an address for the record, please? Ariana, we 99 cottage street and John Smart is with me as well. So please explain why this string if it's an existing roof deck. Are you expanding it in any way? Are you providing access in a different way that this has stringed an appeal? We actually had a bad week about a year ago at this point that required removing the entire roof deck in order to fix the underlying rubber roof and ultimately filed the appropriate paperwork and permits in order to rebuild the deck and learned it was never correctly permitted. So then ultimately wanted to go through the proper process to get it permitted to rebuild the structure that was there. We did hire an engineer who did make some updates in terms of the square footage of the deck got shifted back off the street and my understanding is that is now in code or in accordance with the appropriate distance off the front of the building. And so the engineer did make some tweaks to the original footprint. Okay. So what's the current dimension of proposed dimension of this deck? On one of these forms I apologize. I think it's 18 by 25. And what's the proposed access to this sum to this? At first of all, let me ask you is this a one or a two family and is it owner occupied? We are the owners and it is a two family condo. So we own the second and third floor and and the complete access to the roof and the other owner owns the basement and the street level. Okay. So the sport generally does not look kindly on access through looks looks more kindly to access through a hatch. So please describe your your proposed access to this roof deck. So our proposed access is a headhouse. It is already constructed. You know, as part of part of the unit that we purchased five years ago, it was existing. And so, you know, that door would just open on to the deck structure as our proposal. Okay. So let's just backtrack because if the if the deck had not been properly permitted, likewise, the headhouses likely not to have been adequately permitted. So talk talk us through that. I believe my understanding is that the headhouse was adequately permitted as a exit opportunity of the second and third floor in case of emergency. But I could I could get that verified for the committee. Okay. And what's the dimension of that headhouse? I don't know exactly, but roughly nine by four, I believe. Okay. Okay. Got it. Okay. How would the plans Mr. Eleg. Well, I'm a little confused by some of the things the applicant has said and the post of the plans. Because the plan says existing roof deck access hatch. So and you're saying that there was a headhouse there before. Consisting this is saying that the missing roof deck was accessed by hatch. That yeah, that is incorrect, sir. Okay. It it it currently stands the headhouse currently stands as the depiction shown the screen in the corner as opposed to to a hatch. Okay. So then my second question is if you had the rip off the roof deck in order to redo the roof. That didn't involve taking down the headhouse as well. It did not. Okay. Okay. I mean, again, just to echo the chair, we are not inclined to support roof decks that are accessed by a headhouse. Yeah. I mean, we're just not in and I think that that that that was that's a problem. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board and Talibe needs to the mayor's office of neighborhood services or office hosted in the butters meeting for this project on June 7th. You know about it. I know about it wasn't attendance. The applicant met with the Gulf Street Citizens Association on May 23rd and June 27th. The association voted in support of the project and no concerns were raised. At this moment, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have that letter. The mayor's office spoke of the Gulf Street. I'm trying to have an overview. I am looking at the recommendation from our city's planning agency and they're recommending approval that the and that the deck be accessed by a hatch. So may I have a motion, please? Yeah, I just have one more question. I forgot to ask. What is the proposed size of the roof deck compared to what was there originally? It is two feet further back off the front of the building. So the width is the same, but the length of the house it's pulled back two feet. Okay. So it's actually a little smaller. Correct. Okay. Well, I mean, this is a little bit unfortunate given the head house is there, but given that it was never built properly permanent, I'm going to make a motion to approve the new roof deck, but removal of the head house and access by hatch. And Mr. Mr. is that the design review? So we ensure that that happens? Yeah, that's fine. I'll second that motion. Okay. So Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. Alec. Hi. A row Joe. Motion carries. Good luck. Calling the next case calling BLA 131 8143 11 monument street. This is a building roof deck with a spiral staircase to violation. Yes,I am. Yep. When they were actually assuming that the building having a high access grid line is skewed between that and that has left in favor of a higher access for office ordeal for Everyone. Alright, that's Maria put on the queue for All right. Good Board for you. not since we have lived here. It was remodeled in 2017. I'm sure it came before the board then. Okay. So in the meantime, while we are listening to you, please Tom, if you could check to see if there were any providers put in when it came in for the ring model. In the meantime, please put, tell us what you're proposing. Sure. We've proposed a roof deck on top of the unit number two. We own the second, most of the second and all of the third floor of the building as well as the roof rights. Unit number one is owned by our neighbors. They own the first floor and part of the second as well as the grounds in the back. My wife and I wanted to get some outdoor space. We're working for it to raising a family in Charlestown. We have two very small decks off the property as it exists in the roof deck, would meaningfully expand the area in which we're able to, you know, have our family be outside and eat and such. So that was the reason. Yes. You heard the previous questions of the previous applicant. Give us the dimensions of that proposed deck. If it's visible from the street and how it is accessed. So the access will be for a spiral staircase to be built on the existing side deck. And the dimensions of the main piece of the deck are roughly 16, 5, 23. There's a small walkway from the, from the spiral staircase to that main piece. The piece is visible from the street. As you can see here, there's a program contemplated in the front. The rendering shows sort of slatted walls around that portal. That is not the way it would be put in. There would simply be four posts and the, you know, the small roof of the pergola. I'm sorry. I have the AC and the fan going at the same time. So I'm just having a bit of difficulty. So you're, so I'm looking at the drawing and it says proposed roof deck. Is that what it's, it's going to look like a knot? Yes, that's correct, but there's a pargola in the front here. And there's many different designs of pargola you could put in. What's been on here is one with some slatted walls. And I just want to be clear that what would actually go in would not have those walls around it. So it would simply be the four posts and the roof on top of it. Okay. How would the plans Mr. Oleg? Well, the access is fine and the size of the deck is fine. It's really more than a roof deck. If there's a sort of, there's essentially a structure, although the African is now saying that there's no slats. But there's still a roof on it. I mean, it's showing, at least in the rendering, a wet bar, I mean plumbing is brought up with a flat screen TV. There's, it's almost like there's another structure built on top of the roof. So it's not really a roof deck. It's, it's a roof deck plus. And, and also that whole pargola structure is facing the, a micatelle from the prints is facing the front of the street. So it really looks almost as if another floor is being added. So that's a concern. Okay. Okay. Let me ask the applicant a question. If you're not going to put the slats around, does that mean the, the, in the rendering, the flat screen is attached to the slats? Does that mean there's no flat screen? It would be just resting on a countertop or on a post. It wouldn't be attached to anything structural. So it would be exposed to the, to the elements. Underneath the roof of the pargola, but yes. Okay. And, okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Caitlin Stapleton from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. Our office, the student of butter is meeting on May 18th for this proposal. Since the meeting, the applicant has worked with the neighbors who have reached out to me. I received no letters of support and no letters of opposition, but at this time, we would like to defer to the board. Okay. And just, just so that. So the BPD and again, they are planning and development agency. Recommends that plans be submitted for design review. And that the applicant work with the BPD a staff on size and location. Off the proposed deck to reduce the visibility due to its location within the neighborhood design overlay district. So I think that kind of that they reflect your concerns, Mr. Mr. Alec. Yeah. So can we have a motion place? Yeah, I'm going to make a motion for approval. The access is fine. The size of the deck is fine, but there needs to be serious design review to turn it into a roof deck and not into another structure to reduce the visibility of the. So that's my motion. I'll second that motion. BPD and design review. Okay. So. Alec. Yes. I. Fortune. I. Arroujo. I motion carries with that. Provise. Good luck. I'm going to the next case calling DLA 132 2787 581 boils. This is to add a body. Use to an existing business from retail offices restaurant bank beauty shop telecommunication school and retail lunchroom. To include a body out tattooing permanent cosmetic makeup. There's no work to be done. The violations out of delay section seven. Which actually allows you to leave you. That's why I'm gonna say. And let's go back on this. God, use this. It's conditional B6 98 district. Hi. Julias IO 581 Wheylesson Street. of the same shift. I am proposing to change the occupancy or allow me variance to be able to operate as a body arch tattooing establishment. Okay. And so let me just ask you and is this going to be handicap accessible? Yes. Okay. Okay. And your hours of operation? It will be once a week from 9 to probably 7 p.m. 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. So you're just going to be open once a week? Yes. We have other locations and this is a location I've had in the back bay pretty much for 20 years. But now I've moved and this is the new, you know, I would have to go through this again, which is the change of occupancy include permanent makeup, which is really what my forte is. It's not body arch in that sense. Medical tattooing is what we specialize in. Okay. Mr. Oleg, how are the plans? Plans are fine. They're just a simple floor plan. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jake Lacey, of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. A community meeting was hosted by our office in the spring of this year and considering the proposed services that would be provided a vote of non opposition was provided by NABB. Our office has not received any letters of opposition and at this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have one letter of support. Madam Chair, do you have one raised hand here? Sean Hunter, are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? I sent a request to unmute you. I'm sorry, I was a panelist and I got knocked off. I'm sorry. Okay. I have no additional raised hands in Madam Chair. Thank you. May I have a motion and please at the same time may I have a motion and a second? Motion to approve. Second. Okay. A round you approval. Fortune. Hi. Oleg. Motion carries. You're all set to block. Thank you. Following your next case, calling D.O.A. 1335134-158-West Honketsh Street. This is a construct A3, put by 3-inch, by 11-foot, by 9-1-half brick-wing wall extension. The Violation Staticle 2A section, 0-1, Yodd regulations, the wall exceeds, the allowed 6-foot height, in some areas on both sides. Amen. Address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. This is Jeffrey Rue from 158 West Honketsh Street. I'm the homeowner. With me here today is my wife Sarah Rue, Aiden Lynn from Pomoroy and Company, who are the general contractors on the project, and Jim Skeleton from Judge Skeleton Smith, the architects on the project. So let me ask you, is this one family or two family owner occupied? It's one family owner occupied. Okay, and so explain to us what you're proposing to do. Yes, Madam Chairman. The application here is to construct a wall over six feet in height, in some areas of the side yard of the property, as shown on the schematic. The approved already permitted portion of the wall is six feet going from the full length of the side yard, the portion of the wall that is closest to the actual home, the proposals that it be increased, up an additional a little over three feet, that will enhance the privacy on both sides, and aesthetically, it gives the appearance that the deck is resting on that wall, which is the reason for the requested variance. So I guess I need to ask you with an 11 foot wall, what has your butter on that side? What is their opinion? Yes, so the wall would actually be in height, it would only be about nine feet, a little over nine feet. That's it's 11 feet of width, but only height up to 9.3 I believe. We have reached out to both neighbors, direct neighbors, on to the left and the right, and both of them are fully supportive of the project. We discussed with them at the outset. We've also conducted the and work with the South and Liaison, the Mayor's Office. No, we'll hear from them, so thank you. So both of the others on both sides are in support, and they're both on both sides. Do they owner occupied? Owner occupied on one side, the other side, it's a split home, and the owner, we've been contacted the owner and the two renters of those condo units. Okay, how are the plans? Mr. Oli? Okay. They're okay. It would have helped if there had been some either rendering or drawings from elevations from all sides, so you could really see what the impact of these additional three-foot wall section was going to look like. But I mean, from what at least for one I can see, it does not look like it's that big of a deal, but it's a little hard to tell. To just clarify, so I just have Sarah Rue jumping in, it is that the additional three-feet is not the entire length of the wall. I don't know if it's clear from it again. It's short section here. We understand that. We know that. Again, it would have been helpful if the drawings had shown context. Okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes. I'm good to meet Madam Chair. I'm members of the board. Kim Kersili from Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. The mayor's office would like to defer to the board at this time. Our office held in a butters meeting in May of 2020. We're now opposition with Sean Kimney butters. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay, so this is Wes Kong. Could Mayor have a motion, please? I'm going to make it a motion to approve with the BDA Designer Doe. I'll second that moment. Mr. Olic, I don't know. I guess real yards are, yes, it's in style. Okay. So, fortune? I Olic. All right. Aroud Joe I motion carries for approval with BPDA Design Review. Following the next case, following the LA1335900014 Blanche Street. This is a change at home from a single family to a two family, honor occupied. Eddie Doe with a window on to the third floor. Exterior stay a second egress. And confirm the home as a one family and change to a two family. The violations, Article 65, Section 41, OSP parking, Article 65, Section 15. The use of the did, Article 65, Section 32. This is in the neighborhood development overlay district. Reviewers required, and Article 65, Section 9, the employee ratio is excessive. They may have just further reckoned. Hi, if you're on for this case and you're in the attendee section, can you raise your hand? Um, I'm sure they are here. They're actually in house. They're outside on door. Right now, so if they are here. Okay, Tom, this is a forbidden use. And I'm not sure that even though it's a one to a two family conversion, specifically because this is in a one family district. If this is eligible to come before the subcommittee. Madam Chair, anything for ones and two, doesn't matter, it's forbidden to prevent this. Yeah, but there's, you know, we should just make sure that we, because for the subcommittee, we should have been used as have different thresholds for approval. That we are clear about that. And, you know, for the future, I'd like to make sure that they are at the full board. Okay, so maybe go ahead is the, is the applicant ready to go ahead? Yes, hello, Diane Feeney, I'm right outside the door. Okay, and you address please? 14 Blanche Street in doorchester. Okay, so tell us what you're proposing to do. So we purchased the home a year ago. My daughter and son-in-law lived across the street from us. And that's why we did it. And it was an illegal to family, illegal. The third floor had already had a kitchen and a full bathroom. And what we proposed to do, so we did not change the footprint of the house. We did renovate, went through the short-term permit, we renovated the kitchen. And, um, want to change it into from a one family to a two family. I will tell you that 20 Blanche Street. Okay, so let me just ask you about this board. So tell us about the proposed size or the size, the number of square feet in this proposed second unit. And the floor to ceiling height. And the floor to ceiling height. So the, so it's under 900 feet. It's, it is two small rooms, a hallway and a full bathroom. Um, I did put the plans in so I don't have those. And it's a, considered a queen in. So the height of the ceiling is, gosh, it's on the third floor. It's greater than seven feet. I know that. Um, so we didn't change. We did. So, yeah, so, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's my question. So you're, you're, you're stating for the record that this is a 900 square feet. No less than. I'm just giving that as an estimate, but it's less than 900 square feet. So we want to know like more, so more realistic. If I have, we just want to know that it's not 200 or 300 or 400. We kind of want to know exactly where it lands. Let me, um, because I believe I put the plans in from they, uh, I, I had been asked to hire a, um, a structural engineer to, uh, measure all four floors from the basement to the third floor. And those plans are in on the long term permit. And, and if I'm reading the plans that are on the screen correctly, you're also proposing a new dormer. Is that going to, to function as the second means of egress? Yes. And the difference is, is that from an aesthetic looking, um, the, uh, staircase, uh, to the ground floor, looking at the plans is on the left side of the house, which aesthetically didn't, would not look nice because from the, from the front of the house. So instead a, I believe the plans, um, are in there to show a spiral staircase from the first floor to the second floor landing instead of having this huge. Okay. So, hold on while we, um, get some, um, information, um, Mr., like, how would the plans? Um, they're pretty bare bones. The, uh, uh, it shows the, um, the door with, uh, leading up to the landing and then the staircase going down, uh, as the second means of egress. So, uh, I assume that was done in order to comply with code. Um, to the applicant, what, what are the materials that that stair, uh, stairwells made out of? Um, the wood or metal or what is it? No, it's wood and the spiral staircase will be galvanized steel. Okay. So, um, I don't know, so this is the second means of egress. This would be the second means, exactly. Okay. Okay. And, um, Mr. Oly, can you tell one bedroom, two bedroom and kind of the, the size of the, um, the, um, if you, if, what's on the screen now is the, uh, you've, you've got, uh, the plan view, um, you know, there's a kitchen, there's a dining room. Um, I mean, it's, it's not, it's not big, but it's, uh, it's adequate. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in our position of this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair. Remember, so the board, George Swin with the Mayors Office, Neighbor Services, our office hosted in a butters meeting for the proposal on May 11th. There were a number of a butters on, but no concerns. Plan Point Civic Association has issued a lot of support. At this time, our office will defer judgment to the board. Thank you. I'm trying. Madam Chair, sorry, Jessica, Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have that letter that, uh, George spoke of, and we also have one of the supporting letters. So we have two support letters together. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion for approval with BPD design review on the exterior changes. I want to second that motion as well. Okay. Uh, fortune. Hi. Oh, like, all right. Around your eye motion for approval with design review carries to luck. Calling the next case, calling B O A 134051610, belt and street. This is to construct a rear second story edition to the existing single family home. This is a violation, Article 6569, the fluid area issue is excessive, and Article 6569, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. John D'Arty, 10, belt and street dark. Please tell us what you're proposing to do. We're proposing to put on a second floor edition to an existing first floor footprint, the stand exactly the same. The homeowners, the stadium had a stroke five years ago. So we put on that edition and now, since that, his life has been diagnosed with cancer. And she has to set up a bed every night and take it down in the morning. And she is the main caregiver, a skit to be very stressful physically and mentally. So this is to make it easier for. If this is a one family or two family, it is a single family. Okay. So if this is a second story edition, so tell me is that proposed to be handicapped accessible in any way or not? There's going to be a left from the first floor to the second floor. The first floor is already handicapped accessible. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Oleg? The plans are straightforward. They're okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Wynn with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. There are no concerns in the community and the City of Grove Civic Association has written a letter of support. At this time, our office will defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have that letter that George has spoke of, plus we also have 22 support letters. Madam Chair, I have no way to say it. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve, maybe the design review for the exterior edition. I'll second that motion. Okay, fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Arouse, aye. The motion for approval with BPD design review carries. Thank you so much. So much. So much. So much. On the next case, calling BOA 133484557 Oceans Area. This is doing the Starley Curve Cut and basic driveway at 8.5 feet by 20 feet located in the front left corner of the lot. The violation is atical 65 section 41, Ostrue Pocking. The Ostrue Pocking shall not be located in the front yard. Matthew Moloi, 57 Ocean Street, doorchester, Massachusetts. Mr. Moloi, tell us what you're proposing to do. Sure, I'm in the process of trying to secure a spot for an electric vehicle. I'm not allowed to have a charging station or drape a court across the sidewalk for city ordinance. The gold here and working with roady architects was designed a very tasteful all brick 23 foot single car driveway for the ability to charge an electric vehicle. So that's what I've been proposing. I ask you, is there is there no other option because this board has historically really been opposed to having parking in the designated front yard, which is what this looks like. Sure, so I did provide five additional examples, three of butters and two within the same block. I just like to tell you that some of these photos, they may be illegal driveways. So generally that's not a good strategy. So can you go back and just tell us about if you have any other options. So I did try to engage to the neighbor on the left about using a shared driveway and unfortunately do the nature of a financial situation. They have sold their they're basically the home to the bank and so I can no longer put in a butter like a shared driveway. So I did go down that path two years ago. That is not an option. And so the only option at this point is to put in a single car driveway at this point. I did make that effort for sure and did actually offer $10,000 to my neighbor, which I had to rescind because lack of ownership of the property. Okay. Okay, how are the plans? Well, I mean, you know, I'm getting a charging station for electric vehicle. It's certainly lot of old, but it's front yard parking. It's just not getting around it. Yeah. Okay, is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition? Yes, Madam Chair. I'm so the board George Wynn with the Mayor's Office name is Services. Our office was in a butters meeting floor. This proposal on June 1st and many were in support of the project. However, two butters spoke with concern regarding present for driveways to be treated on quote, quote, the side of that house. The Ashmont Hill Association has written a letter of support at this time. Our office will defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary, we do have nine letters of support. Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands here. I'll start with Sean Lola. Can you give you a name and address of the record please? Sure. My name is Sean Wheeler and I live at 75 Ocean Street. I'm here today just I'm here today to support my neighbor at 57 Ocean who has requested a variance for a curb. Thank you. Thank you. The next person. Can I prove? Brenda Davis. Hi, my name is Brenda Davis and I'm a director butter. I am on the right hand side of 57 Ocean Street. I'm at 53 and I am not in support of it because several other neighbors have asked for this same thing, not including an electric car, but they've been denied and the Ashmont Hill Association has adamantly denied them. So I don't think it's fair that this property be allowed to have a driveway in its front lawn when other neighbors have not and it's putting neighbor against neighbor. Okay, God, thank you. I'm Rachel good one. Can I speak please? I didn't get a chance to speak. No, Mr. Wheeler, you voted and you put your voice and support can I hear? Brenda gave seven comments. Mrs. Ambassador, can you please mute everybody? Okay, Rachel good one. Go ahead, can you say, Canadian address for the record please? Yes, my name is Rachel Goodwin and I'm the direct butter on the left hand side where the driver will be right next to my property. There's basically not enough room next to his house to put it on the side and I'm objecting for two reasons. One is that I think as we have to as a city face that people really want electric vehicles and we have a perfect neighborhood to try to work on that. We could be shiny. So let me just ask you, Ms. Goodwin, what you you sent in your letter. Did you send in that letter because I did read it and so do you have another point to make? I didn't send in a letter. I don't want to. Okay, because so so first of all, you're in opposition but you have some philosophical questions which I think you should have raised through a neighborhood group. Okay, so there's a specific the fact that I my house is right next to that's also very important opposition. I live on a corner where I've been since hit twice one time by a police car about stolen car being hit chased by a police car as the cars go around the corner and in order to protect my car I I park my car right next to the property right on the property line between my and I can't so so so basically what you're saying is that there is on street parking on this on this side of the street then is what I understand then is Mr. Maloy can you answer that question? Yes I can there's plenty of on street parking and I've been on Ocean Street. Okay, so I and so I'm looking at the Boston Planning and Development Agency always makes recommendations to this board using the planning act and they are and they are recommending denial without prejudice because it's located in the front yard and it would privatize an on street parking space. So may I have a motion please? Yeah, I'm going to make a motion I agree with the analysis of the the it would be nice if there's some way to figure out alongside the house I assume that there is not there may not be enough space to the flatlines I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice in the hope that some other formulation can be come up with. And unfortunately unfortunately the there is no way I'm sorry does a motion on the table? Yeah, I'm going to second that motion and it does look like if I'm looking at Google maps correctly I think they can't push it down somewhere down the road. Okay, so um fortune. I oh like all right. A row Joe I the motion for denial without prejudice carries the luck. Following an ex case calling the away 1336189 2005 Dorchester Avenue. This is to extend the driveway to park vehicles on the side of the house the violation of Article 65 Section 41, a street parking requirement the location parking is required the front yard is not allowed to cone a lot rule or two front yard exists. Article 65 Section 9, the residential dimensional regulations insufficient usable open space identify Damon Adgers for the record. My name is Francine Times 2005 Dorchester Ave Dorchester Mass. So tell us what you're proposing to do. Well what what it is is I had some bushes that was that was around my house and I had them removed and the fence that was there on the Hurrocroft abside has also been removed and on the side of my house where the den is I just want to just pay I just want to asphalt that area just so I can park my vehicles. So give us give us a little bit of background is this a one or a two family? This is a single family home. Okay, and it's owner occupied owner occupied. Yeah and did I understand because the BPDA talks about you having approval for an extension which was approved in 2019. Did you build at the extension? I had to abandon the project because of the funds. I couldn't get funding so I had abandoned that project but I did want to expand my driveway. Okay so that that that actually gives us some more information because have you thought so the proposed addition was it was a proposed addition for a garage? Is that what it was? No no what the original plan was going to be the garage is going to be torn down so I can put an addition onto the house but I had since abandoned that project so that so I went to a plan B. I'm going to just do the work inside my house but I do want to extend my parking on the outside and house. Okay, so let me just tell you so you're where is your front door your front door is on doorchester up? Yes. Okay so the issue that we we could possibly have here is that you're providing proposing a very wide cub cut on whole craft. I don't need a curb cut. I don't need it. Okay okay okay how are the plans Mr. O'Lock? Is there is it any clearer than what's in front of us? Well it's gotten a little clear so to the applicant a couple questions so the proposed addition was not built is this is the garage still there? Yes. Okay and there was already a curb cut leading into the garage? There's a curb cut that that that that yes there is because there was an existing driveway there already. On a her on a her all craft. Okay. Yes. And on the drawing that's in front of us what is the area that that's in pink? What is that? That's where my bushes were and I had to remove so now it's a big dirt area and I want to asphalt that to extend my driveway. And let me car so you're proposing to park. I have two vehicles currently. And how wide is it because the problem is that the drawings don't show what you're saying so I apologize but I'm but I'm doing that that's fine so we're just trying to be clear so how wide is the driveway that you're proposing? Well I sent my liaison George pictures of what it looks like now. I don't know if he can access that for you but I can go outside and show you because I'm at home I can show you what it looks like outside. You know we appreciate that but it helps us to have dimensions you know how many feet so we can figure out how to make everything. So here's here's what would be helpful. It would be helpful if you could. Like really. That's what my question. Can we have everybody muted please? Thank you. Okay thank you. So to the applicant it would be helpful if you could come back when the slightly amended drawing. The plot plan is fine. There's not to be anything more than that but we need to know what the size of the curb cut is. The existing one we need to know where the garage is located and we need to know how wide the driveway is that you're proposing. Until we can see that and I appreciate your offer to go out and show us on FaceTime but actually that we really needed drawing you know stamp drawing that will show that. So until then at least I don't feel comfortable making emotion one way or the other. And you know what would be helpful is also to include the paved drive that's already there because then maybe you could have more of some grass or flowers or something next to the next see a house with that first floor porch or whatever it is that you have at the corner. Okay so we're is there a motion for the squirrel? I'm going to make a motion. I just want to above D'Amico did speak on this. You can say it was front yard parking so he was making a most of the denial. So I just want to make sure. But Mr. Fortune if it's actually going into a garage it's not front yard parking that's why I would agree I'm on Google Maps looking at it so there is an existing garage and it's a vehicle parked in the driveway with the curb cut so I don't see it being front yard because it is a corner but I'm just letting you know the missing to be good. Okay well we improve drawings will I think resolve all this. So I would agree. So Mr. Oh like you're in support for deferral Mr. Oh second I'll second that motion. Okay a row Joe is also in support to the motion for the squirrel carries and the date. We can do August 18th if the applicant get that information all this was. Ms. Times will you be able to get that information to this board before the 18th? Do I have to have somebody draw it out can I give you measurements and all that stuff. I'm pretty sure you can measure it out and that's the sense okay because you don't need all that coupled space or all that space you know. So again again you may want to get someone with a stamp of drawing. I think you want someone to stamp a drawing that shows where the garage is shows to the proposed driveway shows where the curb cut is so I think whoever did this you should go back to him and get get an updated version. Okay. Okay. So that would be August 18th at 5pm. Okay thank you. Calling the next case calling the OA 130 9944 65 Thompson Street. This is to construct a new two-story addition in the rear of the yard the violation. Article 69 section 9 of foot air ratio is excessive. In Article 69 section 9 the rear yard is insufficient. Amen. Address for the record please. Governor Donaham our grant made log G and 65 Thompson Street in Hyde Park. So Mr. Jean can you speak a little bit louder and tell us please what you're proposing to do. We are proposing to build an extension in the back of the house because the families are overgrown and we have grandparents living with us. We have to take them to an extra space. So we are building the extension in the back about 15 feet and so we can have room for the green parents. So our nephew and the bedroom upstairs will be open and will be converted into a bathroom so and then another bedroom. Okay so let me ask you a couple of questions. So is this a one family homeowner occupied? Yes. Okay and so what do I see is there a unit in the basement because it does talk about existing basement plan? No it's in our face and laundry room and you tell to So are you proposing then those bedrooms will are they proposed to be in the basement? That we see on the on the proposed basement plan to bedrooms in the basement? When we push it back it's going to be levels. I think the elevation is different. It's on a little hill so it will be a normal height. That's why it is considered as a true story. So it will be a basement. It's just another basically first floor. Okay um please can we move to the next page and see what the second floor looks like? Okay so it's going to be a one two three so it's going to be a five a five bedroom unit. Yes. Okay how are the plans Mr. Oloch? The plans are fine. It's a what it's to the rear of the ground slopes down so it's a walk out at the floor. Okay is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair members of the board Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services the applicant completed the community process by attending a factory hill neighborhood association community meeting on May 11th 2022 where they received support for the project. Our office has received one letter of opposition which has been provided to the board. The abutter believes that there's not enough land for what the applicant proposes and also expressed concerns for a recent week wetlands in the area. At this time. I'm sorry I was the second. So what was the opposition based on again? Concerns about size of just like a lot in general and then also there's a base in wetlands another street back in the park and just concerns about how that would impact kind of that ecosystem. Okay. So we defer to decision to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair secretary we have three letters of opposition we have that letter that the mayor's office is focused. And let's see and the BPDA is recommending approval with design review. May I have a motion? Again I'm going to agree with the BPDA and make a motion for approval with design review. I'll second that motion. So um fortune. Hi. I'll like. Hi. Around you. I motion for approval with design review carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. The following next case calling the LA 1324441465 business street. This is a new curb cut install Austria parking for two vehicles. The violation. 10 section one the limitation of air of accessory uses and article 69 section 29. Austria parking and loading. Austria parking design, and overgoated tandem parking is not permitted. Amen. Add just for the record. Good afternoon. Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Jason Clements of 65 Business Street. So Mr. Clements you've sat through a couple of other requests for parking. Tell us what you're proposing here. I was just proposing a straightforward driveway to get my vehicle off the street. I'm also looking into purchasing a second vehicle for my business and I'm unable to do so because parking on a street has become someone of a hazard. But as I said I'm just looking for a street for a driveway and I've spoken to it a butter. Okay. No, no, no. When you talk to us um just give us the information about the proposal. So tell us um let's just um miss and bass um yeah can you so it looks like that second space is going to hit is so this is a one or two family dwelling. So this is a two family dwelling. It's on a occupy. So I am the only person who will be parking in that driveway. My tenants have off street parking. So where is there off street parking? Right in front of the house. So the oh I see there on street parking. Okay got it. The proposal is 10 to 12 feet wide. So they will have ample space to park you know two cars that they have them in front of the house. Okay and so give us a story about this parking because it looks like in the rear that rear spot you may be hitting a set of stairs. Explain that piece to us. I'm actually only going looking forward to going up to the bulkhead um that must have been a mess happen on the uh whoever drove the plan but I'm only looking to go up to the bulkhead. So it will not go up to the stairs as you see it in the zone. Okay so the question becomes if you go up to the bulkhead. Yes. Does it mean that space number one the one closes to the street then the park the the vehicle in that spot needs to move and park in your front yard. I know that's actually on the side of the house so on the side if you can see we define the front yard. So let me let me take a minute and say that the front yard for zoning purposes is is defined as the area between the front line of the building and the street. Okay so so that is called the front yard so the question becomes if you move the second space to the bulkhead line then it sounds like you need to have that first space in the front yard and that is not something this board supports and so that's not something the board supports. So with with that being said um if I can just fit one vehicle on the side of the house that will be sufficient for me to get my car off the street and open it up for other people to be able to park because you know I you know when I come from work I have to you know search around for parking and I'm just looking to get my vehicle off the street and so Adam Chair from what we understand I'm sorry. Yes Secretary here I don't know might be able to clarify things. Guap de Mico has spoke on this one would you like his comments it might be helpful okay regarding 65 business street tandem parking is acceptable due to it involves a private location the issues he does see is the concern as follows to extend the proposed parking area to prevent front yard parking and extend the current curve cut. Got it okay how would the plans Mr. Olic? Well I actually think it's pretty straightforward it's a 10 foot curb cut which is fine and the two spaces even if they go right up to the stairs you know that's that's okay and it avoids front yard parking they're 8.5 by 20 which is adequate. The only thing I'm concerned about if it goes up to the stairs is that if those stairs are second means of egress and there's a problem that somebody could get on the way but it is it shows 10 feet in width there so there's someone ought to be able to get up alongside the car without any trouble if he only does one car then it's no good because then yeah so I actually think it's okay okay so let me go ahead is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening Madam Chair members of the Board for Jake Lacey again with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and a butters meeting was held on May 18th 2022 and there was full support from the neighbors for that meeting and we also received a few letters of support as well at this time we deferred to the judgment of the board thank you Madam Chair Secretary here the only letters we have a three letters of opposition we don't have any support letters the mayor's office focus. Yes and the BPDA is recommending denial without prejudice because because of two adjacent cob cuts but I don't think that's a big issue if you can accommodate everything. So may I have a motion please? As long as the 10 foot curb cut I'm going to make a motion for approval. Do you need design review? I don't think so. Okay second that motion. Okay so just for the roll call fortune. Aye. All right. All right. Around you I some motion for approval carries. You're all set good luck. Thank you members of the board. Following the next case calling BLA 134448081 to 87 Faremont Avenue. This is a change of October in restaurant and increased the occupant load to 152 and include outdoor seating and live entertainment. The violates with Article 69 section 8 uses for Ben and Article 69 section 9 of the Riyadh is insufficient. David Angus for the record. Sean Hunter representing part 54 restaurant lounge 81 Faremont Avenue. Okay so this is ultimately but I'm going to recommend that this go to the full board because again this is a commercial use and it is a forbidden use. So may I have a motion for the furl and sorry about that. So how? I'm sure this is Tom. Yeah. Commercial space with under 35000 square feet. I just because it's also going to go for live entertainment. So I would prefer that it be heard by the full board. So may I have a motion please? Motion to differ. I'll second that motion. So fortune. Aye. All right. All right. All right. Around you. I at the date please for the full board. While we can do the 26 I think we can squeeze them in for next Tuesday. Okay so can you up 30? Okay. Can you appear on Tuesday at 1130? Yes we can. Okay. Excellent. See you then. Have a good weekend. Following the next case calling B.O.A. 1328 1457. Loyal Stint Street. This is replaced the red deck. Replace the front porch. Finish attic with two new dormers and install a new room. The violation of the article 10 section one. Limitation of parking area. Article 55 section nine. Accessive FAR and Article 55 section 40. Auspric parking is loading. Maybe the address for the record please. Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Kyle Smith. It's the terror law business address of 359 Newbury Street in Boston, back bay. So tell us what's being proposed. Madam Chair what's being proposed is to essentially remove the roofing structure. Sorry adding dormers that run laterally on both left and right side of the roofing structure to expand livable area for the second unit which exists currently only on the second floor as far as livable area to expand into the attic area which expands FAR from approximately a point six to a point nine. We're also seeking to have a curb cut on the right side of the structure to add two off street parking spaces to the right of the existing structure. And then the. I'm sorry I didn't ask you this before. Is this the one or a two family owner occupied? It is a currently it's a two family. The owners are trying to enroll their daughter into the curly school so their intent is to live here once the construction work is completed. Okay so tell us what would be the total square foot of the space once everything is set and done. The proposed total would be a 3,174 square feet with a current lot size of 3,531 square feet. The proposed FAR of point nine. Okay and so they're proposing to live in the unit are they on this call so we can get verification from them? Yes Madam Chair we have Jean Chung and also Chris Reed on the call. Okay so we just need to so okay I'm telling us about the parking how is the parking post? So the parking is to be proposed to the right side of the structure. If you can see from the site plan submitted we have a proposed 10 foot curb cut spaces nine feet and with 18 feet in depth. We do have a membrane of understanding with the owner to our immediate right the most impacted butter as it relates to the parking. There are existing curb cuts on this odd side of the street of at 139 11 15 19 23 31 41 43 51 53 67 and 77 boils in street. So this is the only one of the only ones that don't have? I wouldn't say one of the only ones but there are a very large number of existing structures that do have existing curb cuts. And I'm sure that you have the conversation with the applicant with the previous application applicant on business street. It looks to me that this is proposed front yard parking. Yes Madam Chair so if you can see we have a easement onto our parcel from our structure to our left for which that parking is breaking the plane at the front of the building but that is largely consistent with all of the other curb cuts that I had referenced here or a vast majority. We do have the depth. Mr Smith I'm looking at the plan that's right up there right now and it says proposed curb cut and it looks like that front parking space is entirely in the front yard because as I had mentioned previously the front yard zoning purposes is defined as the line off the building and the extension thereof to the property line anything between that line and and the sidewalk is considered front yard. So it looks like this proposal is proposing front yard parking is there possibility of moving one of the spaces further into that yard. I would say that you know it was noted we were cited for a front yard violations but it was contemplated. I do think that given the width of the lot size we can push those spaces deeper. If it's the request of the chair we can extend the length of the drive to try to make sure that both parking spaces are flush with the front of the building that would remove some usable open space but that wouldn't then trigger an additional violation for purposes so that is possible if that is the request. Okay how are the plans Mr. O'Leak? The drawings are fine now you you pointed out the only issue if the driveway is moved back and so the front lines up the front of the house and the curb cut size is it doesn't say on the drawing what the width is but I would want to keep at the 10C if all that is done then it becomes acceptable. Okay. I just want to make sure that Bob D'Amico's comments he does he does say it's front yard parking. Okay thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I have them chair members of the board Jake Lacey from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services the applicant is undergoing a robust community process managing to gain support from both the butters and the Jamaica plain neighborhood council zoning committee to date our office has three letters of support on file and at this time we respectfully defer judgment to the board thank you. And I'm sure I do have a raised hand marker you all set. Okay I'll open it up for Chris Chris then to request a mute you can you stay name and add just for the work at please once you unmuted. Oh sorry we have a meltdown going on defer to the next commenter for right now. Okay I have no other raising. I think you are the only commenter. Well this is your offset otherwise I have no additional raise hand for them chair. Um okay because I okay bear I have a motion place. I'm going to make a motion for a special meeting with three provisos. I'm sorry approval with three provisos. Yeah one is BPD a designer view the second is that the driveway be extended so that the front of the front parking space be aligned with the front of the house and the third is that the curve cup be restricted to 10 feet wide. I'll second that motion. Okay so fortune. Hi. Oh look. Hi. A row Joe aye. Some motion but those those three provisos carries your offset the blood. Thank you Madam Chair. Following the next case calling BLA132943227 Sherwood Street. This is a replacing screen forge to an existing porch. The violations article 67 section 9 the front yards and sufficient and article 67 section 9. The side yard is in position. I'm going to add this for the record please. Good evening Madam Chair Mr. Early, Mr. Fortune, Tom Miller. The half the applicant Cindy Lava who's joined us tonight. As as was read in the record this project is to propose to add screens to an existing deck at the rear of the property. It's pre existing that deck is about approximately 166 square feet. The deck has been existing since 1962 at least. That was the first part of the oldest permit I could find which was called to repair it. As I stated this is a pre existing deck. We were cited for two violations for work that was done around 1986 to repair the existing front porch and the existing rear porch at the time. Both those violations have been closed through permits issued in 1986 about two months, three months after the violations were cited. This project is simply to... Sorry Mr. Miller. Can you please help with the diagram so we can just have to use on the screen? I don't know. Is that you who's handling the screen today? Yeah. Yeah. Yes, Chef. Can you so that we can just see the whole property? Because it looks like it's just a one page thing. So it would help us to understand if everything was... You might need to go to 98% or something like that. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Yep. So as the chair can see and the board can see that the proposed screen end of this existing porch is in the lower rear room, lower right because lower right of the property in the rear of the house. It's that existing 166 approximately square feet. The porch's existing has existed for longer than I've been alive. Okay, so but not as long as some of us have been alive. So if I'm looking at the drawing correctly, it looks like the that the area under consideration is this existing and closed porch to be rebuilt. Yes, so the porch was not previously enclosed. The reason the application list is existing was the my client pulled the permit or her contract did start at the work and was then cited. So the plans was to let the plans are okay. I'm aware of the where is the front door? Is it off that the porch near the top of the drawing? Yes. Okay. Okay, this plan is fun. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good evening Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Ujra Nochi and I serve as the Rosendez liaison. We hosted a meeting for this project on June 1st and my office has received 11 statements of support and that comes in letters as well as people speaking in the meeting. I think those were also shared and they have contacted their closest neighborhood association as well. At this moment we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Madam Chair Secretary, we have 12 letters of support. Okay. And Madam Chair I do have a raised hand Paula. You're looking to give testimony here. So can you state your name and address for the record please? My name is Paul Norbert and I live at 31 Sherwood Street and I am Cindy's neighbor directly through her left and I support this project. I have no problem with it and I think I am the most impacted by it. Thank you. In the neighborhood. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. I don't think we need to be designed to do. Yeah, I agree with you. A second end motion. Okay, fortune. I like. All right. A row Joe. I motion carries approval. All set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling B.O.A. 132. One two five seven eight 19 Hayden Street. This is a renovation in addition to unit two and existing two family detached building. Including the slightly revised second floor layout. We finished bath, new front and unit in units. Stay well to the third floor and a third floor man side roof. This is going to be a master suite and recess balcony to the rear. The violations at the call 67 section nine. The play the racial is excessive at the call 67 section nine. The building has excessive and stories at the call 67 section nine. The side yard. The patient and at the call 67 section nine. The rear yard is insufficient. Amen. Address to the record. And I think not to go 82 spring street West Rocksbury. And Derek Rubinoff from also from Derek Rubinoff. To spring street West Rocksbury. So first can you clarify that this is owner occupied and tell us what's being proposed? Sure, it's a two family owner occupied two family. So we are removing the hip roof, the existing hip roof and replacing with a man side roof. We are proposing that the man side roof will be addition to the second unit and it will remain a two family. The edit level. Sorry, let me ask you. How what's the square footage of the proposed addition? We are adding 912 square foot. 912 square foot addition. Okay, that's almost like another story up there. How are the plans? How are the plans? Mr. Ali. The plans are fine by changing the roof line and putting a man's turn and they they've allowed themselves to effectively add the other story without really changing the height and building. Okay, Mr. Rubinoff, any sense of how close they are to the butters? We are just extending the existing non-conformity on one of the side setbacks. The other one conforms so specifically. The 10 foot setback is required on one side on the east side. We have 14.2 feet and the west side is 6.8 feet and those are existing non-conformities that we would be extending upward. Okay, let me just see. How so you, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Do you think Madam Chair, members of the board? This is Adriano Chican. We hosted this meeting on May 18th. They did reach out to their closest neighborhood association. The neighbors to the rear of the property were worried about how the height may affect the sunlight on their property. But because the property will be going up only six inches, it was stated in the meeting that it wouldn't be too much of a problem. And at this moment, we would like to defer judgment to the board. Good evening, Madam Chair. Yes, members of the board, Jordan and Councilor Royals office, we'd like to go and support of this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have two letters of support. Madam Chair, I have no regrets. May and let's see, may I have a motion please? Motion to approve, BPDDA designer. Do you want to move? I'll second that motion. Fortune. Aye. All like. Aye. A row, Joe. Aye. It's been approved with BPDDA design review. Good luck. Thank you so much. Following your next case, calling the OA 131319341351 Cornell Street. This is a Doomer addition. We had deck and you citing the violations, article 6769, the Politiate ratio is excessive. Article 6769, the bill and hence excessive in stories. Article 6769, the front yards insufficient. And Article 6769, the side yards is insufficient. May I have an address for the record please? Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Chris Coropolis, 60 Bayes Water Street. I will be representing my sister, Paniyata, where she's Steve who owns the property. Okay, is this owner occupied? Yes, it's owner occupied. We've had this in our family for over 25 years. My sister bought the house from my mother and now resides in it. We're just looking to give it a nice little upgrade because it hasn't been updated since we moved in in 96. Okay, I happen to live around the corner, kind of around the corner and down the street. And so it looks like it's going through a massive renovation already. But intention is that it'll continue to be owner occupied. Yes, she's going to move back in there once we're done renovating for her. We started as just upgrading the first and second floor kind of, but then we realized that the layout wouldn't work out, so that's why we switched from a single form to go to a long form to ask for the dormer and the roof and finish basement. And the finished basement, so tell us, let's just start with the basement. What's the occupancy proposed on the basement? Just like a family room with a half bath just so my niece could have her own private space to hang out with her friends. She's finished the theme soon, so. So the problem is that, okay, so it's a family room. It's not a bedroom in the basement. No, there will not be a bedroom in the basement, not at all. Okay, so now let's go to the proposed dormer. Tell us about what the use is in the dormer. That will be the massive bedroom for my sister and her husband to basically after the private space. Okay, the issue, let's just look at this is that it changes from a two and a half story to a three story. And so, okay, how the plans Mr. Olet? The drawings are okay. One question, does the show ceiling height in the in the basement of the attic? Do you know what that is to the applicant? The basement height is around seven feet ten inches right now. And proposal for the attic? I don't have that exactly off the top of my head, but I think it was about eight feet. Okay. Okay. And so, I do have a question about your impact on your butter because there is a house next to you. If you look at the house on the left hand side, how close will you be to the property line? And then from what's the distance from their wall to your wall? We have, we're not adding anything onto their side of the house. There nothing will impact them. We will not be changing anything that goes in between my sister's house and their house. They will have all the same space they've had there. They have a driveway for four cars right next to ours basically. So, and then we have just the yard space would be the pathway to get to the backyard. Okay. So, Mr. Alec, did I ask you about the plans? They're fine. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Good evening, Madam Chair. It's Utrinochi with the Mayor's Office. We hosted a community meeting for this project on May 4th. There was no one in attendance for this project and we haven't received any letters of support or opposition. You'd like to defer judgment to the board. Okay. Miss Ambassador, any raised hands? No, ma'am. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve VBDA design review. I'll second that motion. To your own support. Fortune. Aye. I'll like. Aye. A row, Joe. I motion for approval with design review carries and knowing that it's going to stay a one family. Okay. Thank you so much. Good luck. Thank you very much. Coming in the last case of the night, calling BLA1328658, a curlose tree. This is the extend living space into the basement. The violation, Article 56, Section 8, the fluidity ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Joe Lala, a curlose tree. West Roxbury, single family dwelling, owner, occupied. Okay. So, Mr. Lala, tell us what you're proposing to do. Extended living area into the basement. I have a son that's home now with the COVID and all home working. And it's kind of by with my wife having medical issues, we're trying to put him downstairs in the basement with his own bedroom, bathroom, and laundry area. Will he have a kitchen down there? No, it's just like a little sink. That's it. Okay. So tell us about the floor to ceiling right in the basement. It's 7.6 7.5 feet. Okay. And the bedroom. Tell us about the windows in the bedroom. What's the floor to propose floor to cell height? There's going to be two windows there and it's it's in the drawing there. The cell height is 28 inches. floor to cell is 28 inches. 28 inches off the ground. Yes. So the other one in the middle is 42 inches. Okay. One closest to the front of the house is a bigger window. That's 28 inches. So it and you are proposing to maintain because I did do a site visit a couple of days ago. Are you proposing to maintain a separate entrance? It will have two entrances, yes. In the front and in the side. Okay. Mr. Oh, like my screen is blocked out again. How are the plants? Well, it's interesting. What they're proposing is to turn the garage into the bedroom. And the garage when it was built was dug out. So actually it's a walk out situation while the rest of the basement is below grade. So it actually works from that point of view. They'll turn the garage door into a facade with a door. And as the applicant said, there is a proposed wet bar in the bathroom. You know, could it be turned into a separate unit? That would be a concern, but as of now, that's not what to propose. Okay. And Mr. Lala, you're confirming that this is a single family and the intention is to have it remain a single family. Absolutely. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Chair members of the board, Jake Lacey from the mayor's office, the applicant went in front of the West Rocks Green River Hood Council on May 24th, 2022, where the zoning committee voted 70 in support of the project. Our office also received one letter of support from a neighbor on petrol street. We have not received any letters of opposition, and at this time, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, would you have that letter the mayor's office will have? Given that information may have a motion, please. Hey, I'm going to make a motion to approve with two provisos. BPD design review for them for the re-re-can-configure front entrance and and provide so that it remains a single family occupancy. I will second that motion. Okay. Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Aroukia is also I, so it's been approved with those two provisos. A meeting is now adjourned. We'll see everybody on Tuesday. Have a great warm weekend. You choose that picture. Okay. Bye.