 The zoning board of appeals up committee hearing for October 25th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature regarding virtual hearings. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings in March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar of platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notice page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Or members applicants in their attorneys are represented, soliciting the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strong. I encourage to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Selected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chairman may limit the number of people called upon to author comment at a time for commenting as time constraints require. That reason the board refers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request on mute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon the comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions may be repeated throughout the hearing. Today's board consists of a full board but we are not sure if everyone is here yet. As a result of any applicant would like to wait until the seven member board is seated, you can seek an administrative deferral. Let me take a roll call and determine how many we are today. So Mr. Fortune, yes, good morning Mr. Chair. Morning Mr. Agiro. I believe he's not, he might be late. It's done. Morning Mr. Chair. Good morning Mr. Robinson. Good morning Mr. Chair. Mr. Niano. Good morning Mr. Chair. And there's log. Good morning Mr. Chair. Okay so everybody's here Mr. Agiro will be late so we're all set. Mr. Hampton are you there also for the BPDA? Good morning Mr. Chair. Good morning. Okay Mr. Fortune take it away. Thank you Mr. Chair. The first owner of business is the approval of the hearing minutes of September 13th of 2022 need a motion. Mr. Fortune, is there a second second Eric? Mr. Fortune, yes Mr. Agiro, oh Mr. He's late. Ms. Don. Yes Mr. Robinson. Yes Mr. Niano. Yes. Ms. Loeb. I'm didn't hear you but I'm in favor so sorry. Okay thanks. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Call the first extension calling DOA 799 147 30 to go in street. Name an address for the record point. Good morning Mr. Secretary Mr. Chair attorney Nix Azula and the government quality and Miller 28 State Street in Boston here on behalf of 34 LLC. Thank you counsel. Thank you counsel. Regards to 30th on street board of reasonably granted this relief on November 6th 2018 and as since granted two extensions of that relief however both extensions were necessary because co-oper told I would buy for this relief. With calling this relief did not expire until February 23rd 2022 however the board's most recent extension for November 6th of 2022 covered the full calling area. I recommend that the board confirm this for the record. The applicant now requests an additional extension until November 6th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant this extension appropriate on the circumstances keeping in mind that would be only applicant the second necessary extension. Mr. Chair I'll make a motion to extend the extension until on November 6th of 2022. Great. Yes sir a second. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. It was low. Yes. I'm the chair as well motion passes. Thank you. Following the next extension calling BLA1035883178 Bright Avenue. Name an address for the record please. Good morning. Rebecca Glickman Simon from Fitchbott Partners did business address is 84th State Street in Boston. Thank you. Good morning counsel. And we got to 178th right now. Avenue the border originally grant this relief on November 6th of 2020. So cold we're told it does not apply to this relief. The applicant is now seeking their first one year extension. I recommend the board grant that extension and find it appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Chair I'm going to make a motion that we do a one year extension from today's date of October 25th 2020. Right. Thank you. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Just done. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. It's low. Yes. And I too am favor the motion passes. Thank you very much. Following the next case calling BLA1035609 820 William T. Morris, Bullervad. Name an address for the record. Yes. Good morning. Philip Strasula STI. ZZ. E. L.A. 820. Maas Bullervad. Not to a session. Thank you, sir. In regards to 820 William T. Morris, Bullervad the border originally granted relief on November 13th of 2020. So cold with the COVID tolling does not apply to this relief. The applicant is now seeking their first one year extension. I recommend the board grant that extension is to find that appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Chair, I will again make a motion to approve a one year extension from today's date of October 25th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Ravansson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. Mr. Logue. Yes. And our two of them favor the motion passes. Thank you very much. Following the next case calling BLA1072124295. Mr. Tim Cohen. Yes. This is Dan Fowler. Ryan Ferman. We were filed to be able to pass the issue of this permit to my name for my company. Are you are you talking about the kid are you speaking now? Yes. Okay. Hold on two seconds. In regards to 2.95 kid are you speaking the border originally granted relief on November 13th of 2020. So COVID tolling does not apply to this relief. The applicant is now seeking their first one year extension. I recommend the board granted extension under the appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Chair I'll make a motion for one year extension from today's date of October 25th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Ravansson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. Mr. Logue. Yes. Motion passes. Following the next case calling BLA81088240Hodding Road. Name an address for the record plate. Good morning, sir Chair and members of the board. Alexander Burke of 570 High Park out owner and applicant. Thank you, sir. We got the adding cardie hot in road border originally granted this relief on November 30th of 2018. And as since granted to extensions of that relief however both extensions are necessary because COVID tolling applied to this relief with calling this relief did not expire until March 7th of 2022. However the board's most recent extension from November 30th of 2022 that was the cold-tolling period. I recommend that the board for the record. Yes. And now requires additional extension of November 30th of 2023. I recommend that the board grant this extension if it's appropriate under the circumstances keeping in mind that we'll be the only applicant's second necessary extension. So shall make a motion to extend to November 30th of 2023. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Stone. Yes. Mr. Ravansson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. Mr. Lowe. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. Calling an ex-case for extension calling the away 106 856 428 monument street. Amen. Address to the record please. Is anybody not from monument street? There is a race here. Um, do all of that you? Yes. Hello. Um, this is Gerald at the 28th. Monument street. Over at applicant. Thank you, sir. We got in 28th. Monument street. The board originally grants this relief on December 11th of 2020. So COVID tolling does not apply to this relief. The applicant is now taking their first one year extension. I recommend that the board grant that extension if they find it appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Chair, I'll make a motion for one year extension from today's date of October 25th. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Stone. Yes. Mr. Ravansson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. Mr. Lowe. Yes. I too am in favor of the motion passes. Calling an ex-case for extension calling the away 658 980 10 McBride Street. Name and address for the record please. John Moran 130 Beach Road. All the en masse. Thank you, Mr. Moran regarding 10 McBride Street. The board originally granted this relief on November 3rd of 2017. The board has since granted three extensions of this relief. However, the second extension was unnecessary. With COVID tolling, the first extension we made valid October 8th 2022. However, the board's most recent extension. It's on November 3rd of 2022. That was the full toll in period. I recommend the board permit this for the record. The applicant now requested additional extension until November 3rd of 2023. I recommend that the board grant this extension appropriate under the circumstances. Keeping in mind there will be only applicant's third necessary extension rather than its worth. Mr. Moran, are we going to be able to get this project done or are we still in a holding period? I know the board looks at these things of extensions a little bit longer than normal. The current status is that all the necessary construction drawings, water and soil approvals, utility approvals, PIC approvals are on the planned examiners desk. He requires that there is slight variations in the plan that would final arbitrarily start to stamp the construction drawings that matter is on today's agenda. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ferris. If the board approves the permit will issue. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Moran. I'll make a motion to be extension for one year to November 3rd of 2023. Is there a second? Again. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Dong? Yes. Mr. Robert? Yes. Mr. Njado? Yes. Mr. Load? Yes. And I too want to say that the motion passes. On the next case, calling the OA 106-6449-6-Glover Court. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with the amendments of the grantee business address of 168 H Street, South Boston. Thank you, Councillor. Regarding six-club history, the board originally granted to leave on November 6th of 2020, so COVID-19 is not applied for this relief. The applicant is now sticking their first one-year extension. I recommend the board grant that gets sent in at this appropriate other circumstances. Mr. Chair, I'm going to make a motion for one-year extension to the date of October 25th. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Don? Yes. Mr. Honitlin? Yes. Mr. Njado? Yes. Mr. Load? Yes. I'm in favor of the motion passes. Great. Thank you. Thank you. And this is the last extension, case BOA 932-319-16-Glover Court. Name and address for the record please. Vernon Woodworth 9-Lisabeth Street in Medapam. Thank you, sir. Regarding 16-1-day-all-street, the board originally granted this relief on October 11th of 2019, so COVID-19 is not applied. It doesn't apply. I'm sorry, it doesn't apply. With tolling, this relief remains out at the January 16th of 2023. The applicant is now seeking their first one-year extension. I recommend the board grant the extension from January 16th, 2024. If it finds it appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Woodworth, you don't expire through January 16th, 2023. Yes. However, the planning seminar apparently didn't have that information and informed us that we needed an extension. Well, do you think you need an extension beyond January? No, we should have the permit well before then. Mr. Chair, we could probably do a six month. It's better. Sounds right. That sounds right. Okay. I'll make a motion that we do a six month extension from January 16th, 2023. Is there a second? Thank you. Mr. Fortune. Yes, so that would be July 16th of 2023, just for the record. Yes. Mr. Dome. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Gianano. Yes. There's a loan. Yes. And I'm in favor of the motion passes. Thank you very much. Following in the fourth final, I've been following the first case, following BCC, 300745-583-Agemon Street. There was a companion case, BCC, 300746-585-Agemon Street, name and address, full directly. Mr. Stefanathan. Mr. Stefanathan. Does anybody on for Agemon, 583 or 585 Agemon? Here. Is that project? Oh, and that says on. Can you let us know if they have a case on? That was a good one. That was a good one. Welcome back. Welcome back to that matter, Beth. I was looking at the office. Ray's regarding next case, please be away 65890-10 McBride Street. Final vote for the auditor, name and address for the record please. John Moran, the Pell Pined Advisory Services, 130 Beach Road, Orleans, FAS. You want to, Mr. Moran, you want to tell us why you're seeking final order? The construction drawings vary from the zoning drawings. I suggest they're slight variations. The size of the three units are slightly reduced by the architects, the current architects measurement. Ruthley stated the original architect did not complete the construction drawings he retired and died. This is the third architect who was able to provide the construction drawings remaining within the building footprint. He reduced the elevation of the building by 31 inches in order to conform to a D.A. access to the building and reduced the number of entering ways from 2 to 1 to provide greater maneuverability within the structure which then caused a variation in the window alignments. The plan examined over the board to stamp these construction drawings and if the board so stamped the construction drawings he would issue the permit. Due to concerns about the administrative approval, I have sought the one year extension and hopefully the board will approve these changes and that the permit would issue. Okay, got it. So a couple questions. The footprint of the building's unchanged, correct? And the size of the units you said was changed? Was that based on the change in the entryways? No, the measurement of the architect, there's slight reductions in the three units. Oh, it's simply the accuracy of the measurements. So the only changes are reduced elevation by 31 inches and going from 2 to 3 to 1. That's correct. And constant variation in the window alignments. Okay, Mr. Robinson, if you had a chance to review these updated drawings? I have and there's no questions for me. I think it's very straightforward. I appreciate the process that the applicant has had to go on through. But I think this is an easy one for us to... Okay. All right, then I'll entertain a motion on that. I'll make a motion to approve. All right, Mr. Fortune, yes. Is it done? Yes. Mr. Robinson, yes. Ms. Pignato? Yes. Ms. Lowe? All right, and I, too, am in favor of good luck, Mr. Ryan. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, Mrs. Tom, I just wanted to bring your attention as I received an email from the city's IT department saying, yes, that work in activity issues. So if there are some issues with people, I just think there is them to hop off and hop back on. I think we run it in any technical issues. Hopefully, I'll be able to come in a couple of hours. Okay, we have some connectability issues just repeating what Mr. Brum said. If you're having problems connecting, jump off and then jump on. And hopefully that will correct it. It's, we have quite an abstract drawing in our screen there. This is the mother and arm, I guess. All right. I'm going to go right to the groundwater conservation then to probably maybe the floor of final auditor. Okay, this is step off. This is step out, step out there. Yeah, I'll do the groundwater and then I'll come back to the board. All right, fine. That was good. Calling the first case, or G-Cod, please be away, 1367363632, by Ed Street. This is a substantial rehabilitate the single-family drawing, constructed in addition to the rear and it's all a groundwater-reached arch system. The violation is out of the 32 section 4, the G-Cod applicability, naming address for the record please. This is Dan Eldridge with Acquink, Neil Yark, Sets, Business Addresses 580 Harrison Ave. In Boston. Is Mr. Semineleon? Yes, Mr. Chan, we good morning, members of the board, Christian Seminele, Boston, groundwater Trust, and we have both letters from the applicant. Okay. We also have Mr. Chair as well, Secretary. Okay, can I have a motion then? I'll make a motion. Do approve. I can. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Dung? Yes. Mr. Audemton? Yes. Ms. Pignato? Yes. Ms. Love? Yes. And I too, in favor of the motion passes. Calling the next case, G-Cod, calling B-O-A139136-1, 12-Modern O-Sprey. As soon as we move in, we're placing asphalt high in space. But all the new, carrying-bone pattern, heated bricks with three high in spaces. The violations are Article 32, Section 4, this is G-Cod, Applicability, Aimanager, Fuller, Econplanes. Yes, thank you, Jesse Aguilar, with high point engineering, Business Address is 980 Washington Street, and the Massachusetts. Mr. Chan, members of the board, Christian Seminary, Bosseum Rdell, Out of Trust, and we have both letters from the end. And we have them as well, Mr. Chan. Okay, then I entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to approve. I can't do it. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Dung? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Ms. Pignato? Yes. Ms. Love? Yes. And I, in favor, also the motion passes. Thank you very much. I have Mr. Chan before I call, and then I 30, I don't think Mr. Staff, Staff on opposite, on the call, but I'll make a motion to defer until the November 50th meeting at 930. Okay, like since. I'll second that, Eric. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Dung? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Pignato? Yes. Ms. Love? Yes. I'm in favor as well. Motion passes. Mr. Chan, I know we have six members, correct? We have six members, but we are due to have, I haven't heard from Mr. Jaro that he's, that he's, that he's, I'm here. I'm, I'm trying to get my computer with my camera to work, but I'm here on a little eye-battery. So, all right, well, we've got your audio, Mr. Jaro, so that counts. That's good enough. Nice to see you or not, not see you, nice to hear you. Thanks. All right, so we have a seven member board. All right. Thank you, Mr. Tath. Thank you, go. So I'm going to call the 930, Harry's, for any deferrals or withdrawals, if you're going to defer or withdraw you 930 project, and the address first, please. Okay. Following the first case, calling B-O-A-1-3-6-7-3-2-1-4-38, Washington Street. This is a bill in addition onto the existing dental office in the first floor, or relocate a wheelchair around. The Violet Staticle 51, section 17, the really added to the patient, the Anautical 51, section 17, the Florida Air Ratio is excessive. Damon Addes, for the record group. Morning, Mr. Chairman. I'm members of the Board of Attorney, John Paul Geni on behalf of the applicant, Dr. Maria Vasalakis. So, at the left 38th, Washington Street in Brighton, the zoning here is neighborhood shopping five. The last size is 2,631 square feet. The proposal is to add a single story, rear addition of approximately 250 square feet to its existing dental practice with a relocation of a handicap ramp inside the garage bay. Dimensions of the addition is approximately seven by 34 feet. With me is Dr. Vasalakis, who is the owner of this dental practice. Dr. Vasalakis has been practicing or dental practice from this location for nine years. Prior to that, this location has been a neighborhood dental practice for over 50 years. This added space will allow the office to have an additional interior office for the busy neighborhood dental practice. We have two violations, the District of Washington district, we have a rear yard, a loudest 20 feet. We have an existing violation of 11 feet. That was just triggered by the addition of the back. FAR, 0.5 is allowed, current FAR is 1.06 and this fall increase will only raise that to 1.12. With your great community process, no objections, you have the support of the Brighton also in improvement state and associations and we have also submitted nine letters to support. I'm here to answer any questions that you have. Okay, Mr. Pujim, thank you. So this is what a three story building and the dental office is on the first floor. That is correct. Residential above, what's what's what's Yes, it's residential above. Okay, and the rear yard violation, what is it and what's required? So under under the code, 20 feet is allowed, where at 11 feet, if you look at the plan, you can see that we have a structure of a fixed garage that is there now, so that the addition of the back just triggered the violation because we're doing work in the previous violated zone. So that's all the rear yard inscriptions and the existing can move on? Yes, because if you look at the plan that we have up right here, you'll see that the to the rear of the building, the addition is going to go to the right of the garage, what you're looking at there. So annex to the main structure, but the garage is a fix to the room structure. Got it. Okay. All right, it seems pretty straightforward. How are the drawings of the Robinson? Drugs are good. Just one question, just to make sure we understand. So the garage doesn't look like an actual two-car garage anyway, so I assume there's no real change in the parking. There's one car shown and it seems like it all can handle one car anyway, so the new ramp doesn't seem to be taking away from anything. It seems is that correct? That is correct, Mr. Robinson. No more questions from me. Thanks. All right, thanks. Mr. Poole, do you assume this is just the goal here is just to expand the practice and to be able to take in more patience, is that? Exactly, Mr. Ehrlich, it's just literally adding one more dental office to the interior of the building. Okay, and does that mean hiring additional staff as well? Yes, we would hopefully, you know, hygienist or something like that, but also a dentist who work in that area. It's a growing, it's a neighborhood practice, so this is not obviously a big place. It's very much in a college area, and it has been in any use of the dental practice for, you know, over 60 years. Oh, okay. All right, is there anyone here to testify either in favor or in opposition? Good morning, Mr. Chairwoman. So the born Frank Mendoza also in Brighton, Lee Aison here for the founding of Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. As always, we're referring to the judgment of the board, but in this case, we're unaware of any opposition from the community at this time. We've only heard things of support from the community, including the Brighton-Alson Improvement Association, as well as from the Abudder's meeting. Again, we're referring to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Good Chair, Secretary here. We have nine letters of support and two letters of opposition, but the opposition didn't leave a comment. Good morning. This is Marma Crayon from Council of Williams Office. The Councilor Lake can go out after this recording. Mr. Project, thank you. Thank you. Annabelle, go ahead. The Chair, members of the board, while Sullivan, the City Councilor, led the clarity of the Councilor. All right. Support. There's a strong between here, so I'll call you out. Like 10-30 here, I guess. Make sure that Annabelle and her head. Yeah, here. And we'll be here, like a person. This is the Nolson Improvement Association, which would like to go and wrap up the support. Thank you. And I have no additional hand at the moment. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You're on mute. Oh, is there a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I think with the BPA design review, just to ensure the ramp and the addition that in there. I'll say. Okay. That was important. Yes. Ms. Dunn. Yes. Ms. Robinson. Yes. Ms. Pinyano. Yes. Ms. Low. I'd like to go to the same with the motion passes. We can take care, everybody. Again, Mr. Regiro. Oh, I'm sorry. That's right. Mr. Regiro, are you on favor? Yes, sir. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next two cases, following the OA 134 for 069 66 Wavily Street, there's a companion case, VOA 134 for 067 62 to 64 Wavily Street. This is 66 Wavily. On POSL 637, when existing, detached two family dwelling, erect a new detached, pre-story, two family dwelling with balconies, and roof access, and on grade parking. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot. The violation of Article 51, Section 9, the lot air of traditional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 51, Section 9, frankly, I was insufficient. Article 51, Section 57, two or more dwelling on the same lot. This is for 62, 64 Wavily. Existing two family dwelling located at 62, 64 to share a lot, but proposed two family dwelling located at 66 Wavily and poor, heavy road. This will be one of two dwellings located on the same lot. The violation of Article 51, Section 57, two or more dwelling located on the same lot. We have an address for the record book. Good morning, Mr. Jim Johnson, architect 599 East Broadway, South Boston. I'll wait for the drawings to come up. Okay. All right. Existing 7500 square foot corner lot is in the 3F 4000 zoning sub district. The lot is 500 feet shy of a double lot. The lot contains an existing two family with on-grade parking and existing trees to remain. We're proposing a second two family with on-grade parking and additional trees. We are utilizing the existing curb cut along Abbey Road. Access to required seven parking spaces, but we're also reconfiguring the parking area to provide additional planting and trees and the required open space for four units. The new two family contains duplex units to better reach 5500 square foot average. Finally, the drawings before the board have been revised to reflect the neighborhood and civic associations, concerns, and comments resulting in a decrease of zoning violations. I'll take any questions from the board. Okay. I do the drawing show. Are there any for the details, elevations, rounderings? Okay. Good. So this, yeah, this walk is to the drawings. Yes. This is the architectural site plan. You can either propose footprint in the shaded area on the corner of Abbey and Waverly. The entrance is for each unit, one off Abbey, one off Waverly. The entrance to the parking areas off Abbey, as I explained earlier. You can see the existing trees, which are very nice and healthy, and we're adding some additional Boston Parks approved trees. Next slide, please. This is the view of the corner of Abbey and Waverly, showing the existing two family in the rear, and the proposed two family in the front of the image. Next slide, please. This is a view from Abbey toward Waverly, showing the rear of the proposed two family. We have balconies outside space for each unit. The roof will have access to proposed solar panels, and I can go through the green aspects of the project if you'd like. Next slide, please. Lower level, showing an unfinished space. Next slide, please. This is the ground floor. You see, we pulled the building back two feet from the corner. Initially, we were excited for traffic visibility across corner. We pulled the building back. Per name or comments, we also worked on the aesthetics of the project and the depth of the balconies. This shows the proposed two family with the entrances off each road. Next slide, please. Second floor, the master suite with an office area, as we all office are very coveted in these days. Next slide, please. I'm sorry, that was one of the master's suites on the top floor with the balcony. My apologies. The balcony depth was increased per the about his comments. Next slide, please. What is the depth of the balconies? A five feet clear. They were four feet. Next slide, please. We show our roof access where our heat pumps will be and future solar panels. We'll wire to provide wiring to the roof of the panels. Building sections showing our height 33 feet to the roof plate. Maximum height here is 33 feet. 35 feet. Next slide, please. Another section. Next slide, please. This is the elevation off Abbey Road showing the Abbey Road entrance with the balcony on the top floor for the master bedroom. Next slide, please. This is the elevation off Waverly. Next slide, please. Elevation, the elevation, and then finally, next slide, please. The rear elevation. Okay. So, the violations, first of all, one of the unit sizes. These are two bedroom units with an average unit size of 1,500 square foot, Mr. Chairman. Okay, and the violations I have to do with a lot of area and two or more dwellings on the same lot. Yes, the lottery required for additional unit is 2,000, we're at 1,875, and the other is front yard. We didn't provide a mobile yard plan. So we're excited for front yard. We have a front yard of 14 feet along Waverly and 5 feet along Abbey. Okay, and my final question. That's the parking area. Is there a talk about leaving existing trees and adding additional ones? Is there fencing with the abutting property? Or how is it separated from the neighboring property? Yes, if we could scroll up to the site plan. Exist, there's existing fencing. There is a chain link fence between the abbey, between the Waverly, a butter property, and then a stockade fence between the property and the abbey street. Okay, so they're existing. All right. There's existing fencing that right there, man. All right, and the basement is just being used for utilities and storage. Utilities storage? Correct. Okay, thank you. All right, Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? Drawings are good. No, actually no questions. Very straightforward. I think it fits in the context as well. So you sort of address most of my other questions. I do think we need to put a provisional on if we approve for site plan review and just make sure the parking is buffered and screened properly and some other things. But no questions on the proposal. I guess we actually have one question. So you do have full stairs to the roof with hatches, which is kind of eludes to roof decks. Were they there before and then removed? Is that what happened or? No, these would be bulkheads with roof doors. Okay, so just for mechanical access? That's correct. The existing two family are rental units. Okay. We rental units. So my client, we are not, no, just access to the future solar panels, which is part of the green aspects of the project. Great. No further questions. Thank you. Any questions on the board? Is anyone here to testify with respect to the project? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Frank Mendoza here again, Allison Brighton-Lease, on the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, referring to the judgment of the board, but here to report that as far as community engagement process, went the applicant received the letter of support from the Austin Civic Association, which fortunate ever on file, as well as approval from the Brighton-Lease and Improvement Association with the provides, so that the applicant can get a BPDA design review, as always, to bring to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. This is Maureen McCabe from Council of the Britain's Office. Councilor Bait to go on record and support of this project, with the prize of the applicant, and the BDA design review. Thank you. Thanks. Okay, Annabella. Here's a member of the board. Annabella Gomez from Brighton-Lease, recruiting association. Would like to go on record and support with BPDA design review, with some attention to the house right now, just really just a square. It is on the corner, so we'd like it to have a little bit more potential and not just being, you know, a box, their family, and attention to landscape being on the corner, especially on the agri-road side, to make sure that there is some greenery there, not just a, if I put a little space between the house and not in the sidewalk. Thank you. Tony? Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board, Tony, Dizajor will represent in the Austin Civic Association. We have slight majority of members that went on, wicket to approve this project, citing the need for housing in the community. Those who did oppose the project were concerned about density. The fact that this, is it will be investor-owned and the concerns about the precedent setting of putting more than one detached dwelling on the same lot. But as I said, a slight majority of members did vote to approve this project. Thank you, Tim. Can you give me your name and address for the record, please? I can't find any in the 10th of the queue. I own 68 Wavy Street, which abuts the project. And are you in favor or opposed? I just got this notification on Saturday. I haven't had even a chance to look at the plans and how this situates my property. I would like for time to look at it to kind of review it. Come up with a decision. Okay, thank you. And I have no additional raised hands. Okay, Mr. Johnson, just these both buildings will be rentals, is that correct? That is correct, Mr. Chairman. Okay, is there any, was there any discussion? I know in the neighborhood in particular, the issue of student housing versus sort of more long-term family housing. Any discussion about that? I have a question. On online, Tom McDonough? No, there was no, Mr. Chairman, there was no discussion on whether student housing was like to just like in the neighborhood. I don't know the existing rental units. If their students are not, but the our rentals and my client has taken care of this property over the years, shoveling the sidewalk, etc. I take good care of the property. That's what I do now. Okay. All right, well, together, it would have come up at either the community organization. So, all right, can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review for site plan and parking and buffering. And also, the landscape plan as it relates to the connection to the adjacent powerstall and property and the corner. Okay. Joe. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Gerrero. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Ms. Pinyato. Yes. Ms. Loa. Yes. All right, to him in favor and can Mr. Johnson can someone reach out to that a butter who is just learning about this and just make that connection, please? Yes, of course. Yes, you have my word. We will reach out to that butter and review the plans within. Sir. All right, thank you. Thank you. Good call. The next case calling the OA 138 1690 290 Cornell Street. It's the Norma and Gamel and added to the third floor walkup bedroom. We can figure the bathroom and closet on the third floor of the violates. Article 67 section 9. Side yet is insufficient. Article 67 section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 67 section 9, the bill that has excessive story. Article 67 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 67 section 9, the Ray Yad is insufficient. Name and address for the record. All right, good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of Board, Bond, Wellington, 110A in Ministry of Cambridge on the architect for the project. I believe Andy, the client is also on here as well. Andy Rosen. Andy Rosen for the record, 290 Cornell Street, Ryzeville, Bill. Thanks for having us today. Go ahead and tell us about the project. Okay, I'll walk you through the plans. The project is a two-goal nurse on the north and south of that existing house on the third floor to give more living space to the project. It results in about 306 more square feet to the project. We're not changing the footprint. And otherwise, we're being cited for some pre-existing non-capformities. And in terms of frame guard, rear yard, side yard, and floor area. Okay, so all the citations, as you said, are pre-existing conditions, right? That's clear. Rear front side, what about the height? Are you pushing the roof up or is it... We are reframing the roof to give code head height. The average, that will bring the peak of the roof to 34.3 at the average grade in the area. And from this average grade of the property line at Cornell Street to the mean of the highest radius, 33.5 feet or 33.6 feet. And what was it before? How far... how much higher are you pushing it? It was 33.6 to the... I'm sorry, it was originally from the survey to the average grade to the peak was 33.3. And now so it's pushing it up for higher. Okay. All right. And it's a initial 300 square feet, you said? Yeah, 306. Okay. All right. How are the drawings Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think this is really straightforward. It fits within the context. There's other dormers on the other houses. It's still below the zoning height. Really see no issue with this. Okay, and this is on our occupant? That's correct. Okay, probably could have come to court and subcommittee. Yeah, probably could have. Yeah, no questions for me. All right, any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to speak on behalf of an opposition project? Good morning, Chair and members of the board. My name is Ujra Noti with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. People's City Meeting for this project on September 6th. And while Noah was in attendance of the meeting, I did receive proof of firing. My office just received several letters of support for the project as well. I would like to defer to the floor. Thank you. Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay, Mr. Fortune, you have those letters? I do not. Okay. All right, time to motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. With no designer, are you a mess, sir? I don't think so. This is fairly straightforward. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Yes. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Zero. Yes. Mr. Stone. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. The Globe. Beth. I too have been saved for the motion passes. I'll make a case calling the OA13505455. This is a new second and third floor addition, Elijah Pirates, in the last week, above and in the basement, playing space below, the mudroom connector, first and second floor. The Violation, Article 55, Section 9 of the Political Aeration of Successive, Article 55, Section 9 of the Front Yadda's insufficient, Article 55, Section 9 of the Side Yadda's insufficient, Article 55, Section 9 of the Rheaid, is insufficient. Namely, I have no further records. Chris Haasfer, Achilles' Design Group, 116th St. Patel Street, Boston. Good morning. Can you please walk us through what you're proposing? So the current house is a two story with a single story L in the back with a detach two car garage. We are proposing to add a story on the two story section, a story over the second story, one single story section, and make a connector to make an attached two car garage in last week above. How many additional square feet are you proposing? I believe it's about 20 to 100 square feet. Okay, but the number of units will stay the same. It's still a single family house. The owners are, originally from California. In last week, it's too loud for extended stay by family. So it's not parental, it's not detached, it's not, you know. It's like, I'm a little confused what you said. The owners are from California, so who lives there? They live in the house here. They're originally from California. They're permanent residents of Jamaica Plain. They want to create this in last week for family who live in California to come to Boston and stay for extended periods of time. Got it. So we're not talking about a potential Airbnb or anything. Yeah, absolutely not. Okay, you know, I just, you want to keep scrolling through the U.S. slides, please met a ambassador. Okay. Okay. So it's an additional 2000 square feet. What's the existence of pretty big unit? Big home. Yeah, 21. So it's existing 1654, proposes 3747. Okay. All right, all the drawings Mr. Robinson. The drawings are good. No question. I mean, I think the, it is enlarging the house quite a bit, but I think it fits within the context still in terms of the sizes of the houses. And, you know, the side yard issue is existing on sort of the right hand side and on the left hand side where the garage is going and the new resident above is on a small sort of looks like a really an access alleyway of some sort called Dresden Street. So I actually think that this is of an okay addition and expansion of the existing house. So really no questions about it in terms of the proposal from me. Okay, thank you. Can we scroll back up to one of the elevations? What is the exterior finish on the mudroom connectors? A little more. We're imagining class and copper. Yeah, I'm looking at that. That's interesting. Yeah. What do you think of that, Mr. Robinson? I think it's beautiful. Yeah. Yeah, they're from California, right? They're something a little different. But I think, yeah, it'll be interesting to see. I think the BPA will have a designer view on this, but I think a contemporary connection can be interesting between the two traditional. The one usual is nice. All right, any questions on the board? Okay. Is anyone here to testify for against the project? Not, Mr. Girard, we just know Dresden Street is not an alley. It's a small street and you make a plane. Yes, it is. Thank you. Small street, I'll read you. You don't want it to me and Dresden Street. What house is on it? It's an- No, no, I understand. It just meant there's no parking on it to access. Seems like a more of an access. I mean, the- All the houses on Dresden Street are well with it, you know, they all- None of our conforming with front yards up back. They're all right. They're high feet off. Okay. Mr. Girard, members of the board, we've got an important thing. Go ahead. Garnum with the mayor's office, neighborhood services. If this time, mayor's office, I'd like to defer judgment to the board. Our office held the butters, meaning on August 10, where butters and attendance expressed non-opposition to the proposal. That you make a point in the neighborhood council, wrote a letter recommending approval for the proposal at this time. You're different. What? Thank you. Anybody else? We do have a few raised hands here. Yeah, let's- What? Oh, go ahead. Mr. Feeb. Now, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Sol, the City Council at Lash, Michael Plenty. No, no, no, no, opposition, go ahead with your agency being at some work council, then we'll go back into it. Thank you. And then, ladies and gentlemen, I sent a request to unmute you. Can you state your name and address on the record please? I'll wait and I look at a good testimony here. Yes, yes, I'm sorry. Good morning, my name is Laney Chitson. I'm quality support of the 49-year-old. I just want to support that now, the building of the- publishing of the barn there. It doesn't seem to mean that changes the footprint of what's going to happen there. There's just kind of expanded space for additional housing for family members. They're not looking to rent the space. And they're not even looking to expand the space beyond the current capacity. So I think there's a reason we request that should be affordable by the- by the- kind of standard for all. Thank you. One is on that space. All right, thank you. No more. I have no additional waste hands at the moment. Okay, I have a motion please. I'll make a motion to approve with BP-8 design review. BP-8 design review. Mr. Fortune, yes, Mr. Regiro. Yes, Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. No. Yes. It's low. Yes. I do them in support motion passes. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-1-4-4-283-1-Ralty-Rode. This is an addition of living space and change the locker room and single family to a two family. Violation's Article 69-630.1, the building alignment formity, Article 69-618, building a two family and a 1F-9000 is preventing. Article 69, Section 9, Affinity Arracial is excessive. Article 69-690, Bill of Rights, Excessive It Stories. Article 69-690, Low Space is in Patient. And Article 69-690, which he has is insufficient. Name and address for the right. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. My name is Eileen Rosa from Rosa Design and Construction. I represent in the owner of Mr. Spaness at Prince, who is the owner of this property. She has lived at this property since 1966 for about 56 years and owned this property since 1987. That's about 35 years. The existing, well, her intention is to provide additional living space to one of her family members that are living with her in this moment. And basically, the existing lot size is 4882 square feet. And it contains a existing two bathrooms, two bathrooms, single family home of about 1,347 square feet. The intention is to make a 13 feet by 33 feet addition with a total of 1,279 square feet, three bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms to convert this property into a two-family dwelling. The floor in the original, what's allowed here is 0.3. The existing is 0.3, what we are proposing is 0.3. So we're increasing the habitable living space from 3,1347 to 2,626 total square feet. The building height is excessive. Our intention here is to blend it in with the existing building. We're proposing three stories in total as it currently is. And the open usable space allowed in the area at 1,800 square feet. The existing is 2,781. And what we are proposing is 1,390 square feet. So there's a difference of about 410 square feet. The rear yard allowed is 40 feet. The existing, it's 9 feet on the left side. And what we're proposing with the new additions going to be is 25 feet. I'm open to any questions. Yeah, thank you. Okay, thank you. So the homeowner will continue to live in the one unit and we'll round the second unit. Is that the plan? Correct. Well, the owner lives on Brown and she's trying to move in one of her daughters on the side. Okay. And some of these violations appear to be pre-existing from the height. For example, is simply matching the existing. Is that correct? Correct. Okay. Can we scroll back to the site plan? Please. I'm a little, uh, yeah, right there. What, where is the, where is the curb cut? I see it says existing driveway. Right. It's right from Stone Hill Road. If you scroll up on the plot then right above, Mastery, if you will, we ever see it. But it's right on our on Stone Hill Road. So you'll be able to come in from this uh, Stone Hill Road. And how wide is the curb, the existing curb cut? Um, my understanding is there's not no curb cut specifically so the, the, the asphalt traffic goes straight into the property. Uh-huh. Okay. Okay. All right. Um, so, uh, okay. So. So. But the entrance is um, going to be off-radity road. Am I right? Or it's a little, I'm just, I'm just trying to sort of get a grasp on the configuration of where the driveway is into the, the front of the building. Right. So the existing front of the building is based in Stone Hill Road. And the proposed addition will be based in Stone Hill Road. And that's where the driveway is. Curve. Mr., Mr. Chair, I'm looking at a group of maps. There is a driveway because there's, there's, there's basically definitely a curb cut. There's a massive curb cut actually. There is okay. My bad. Yeah. Okay. And but what, what, which sounds to be the existing condition is front yard parking? Uh, if, what the ice, what's that? Uh, because it faced the front door, does face Stone Hill Road. And that is where the curb cut is even though it seems like it could face the other road as well. So, but it is currently facing Stone Hill with a very large corner curb cut to, um, not all the way around the corner, but right out across walk corner. So I think, I guess if we're talking a little bit, I think that there's, maybe this should be looked at with BTT just to make sure, you know, this, it looks like a, they're new, some new paving there maybe, but it's, it's a little bit, I think it's a little, it seems a little kind of large for this pedestrian corner, honestly. So, but maybe this is an opportunity for us to sort of kind of tighten that up and fix that. We have time to move it. Okay, well, you spoke exactly with my concern, so, uh, so, so, thank you, everything else about the drawings that you wanted to come up with. No, I think, I think in general, like proposed, uh, addition, I don't really have an issue with, I think, uh, you know, that existing house is, is a little bit mixed match anyways in terms of it. So I think maybe a, uh, some design review just to pull the whole thing together and make sure it feels as a consistent hole, I think would be good, but, uh, really no questions on the proposal. It's pretty straightforward in terms of the square footage and the unit, the additional units of. Okay, any questions on the board? Anyone speak before or guess the proposal? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the Mayor's Office of the Board Services. Uh, there's no civic association in, um, this area of coverage in high parks of the applicants, completed the community process, and they notified all of the brothers and I hosted a community meeting that was held on August night. Um, we received no letters of opposition or support for this proposal, and at this time we'd like to defer, um, judgment to the board. Thank you. Uh, Mr. Chair, we do have one letter of opposition from the Navy. Okay, Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay, what is that letter of opposition based on, Mr. Fortune? Uh, they just opposed to the project. Okay, and no raise hands from Mr. Homes, thank you. Mr. Chair, Mr. Chair, members of the board, uh, also obviously, Council of Laws and Legal Priority. Uh, the Council just like you're on record in, um, opposition, I believe it might be the same, uh, neighbor that's opposed. We received, uh, um, opposition just based upon the, uh, the silence scope of the addition that's, uh, Okay, thank you. Um, I see the chat, uh, uh, uh, Councillor, as the Councillors representative looking to speak. Uh, oh, uh, do we see, okay, yes, the one second. Just make your panelists. And I want to see that. Okay, go ahead, Cindy. Oh, good morning. No, um, not as of right now. We are at 10.30. Okay, say you're all set for now. Okay, when I make your panelists though, that way you'll be able to unmute yourself. Okay. Okay. All right. Can I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion, um, to approve. I think, um, with the BPA design review of the parking and curb cut, to see if we can tighten that up. I also think, um, some design review of the addition and the existing house to ensure that it's, uh, kind of cold together as a single. I think, uh, especially maybe looking at the, um, entries, the new entry and the existing second, uh, two family entry, I think need, uh, some little bit of work to make sure they kind of work together as well. So, um, that's, is there a second? Backing? Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Regiro. No. Mr. Dome. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Vinyado. Yes. Mr. Love. Yes. I am also in favor of the motion passes. Thank you. Following an ex-cage, going to be away. One three four eight nine zero five one twenty to one twenty four. That's in street. This is eighteen independent elderly, elderly housing plus adult daycare and ground floor violations. Article sixty-section eight, elderly housing you just forbidden. Article sixty-section eight, the day-to-day center is a conditionally you elderly. Vinyado, just for the record please. Does anybody want to put the absent? Okay, but see my hands up. Do you know if the applicant's on? Hi, everybody. I just spoke with, um, with the applicant and they wish to defer. I found out that what was supposed to be the butters meetings, there was no butters at the meeting. They never came before the council and there wasn't one. My neighborhood council and nothing was requested. So we said it for our next routine date for November 17th and the applicant. Madam, you're not the applicant though. We have to hear from the applicant. Okay. All right, we're going to go back to that one. Mr. Chair actually it's um 1036. I'm going to call the 1030 hearings for any deferrals of withdrawal. So this is 1030 only for any deferrals of withdrawal. You can give me the address for us if you want to defer 89-91 union street Mr. Secretary. Hold on a second. I'll go on two seconds here. Yes. Two companion cases just so you know. Okay, thank you very much. Um, calling it 1030 hearing case for deferrals, HBOA 125-861-189-91 union street. There are two companion cases, BOA 125-861-393 union street. And BOA 125-861-1645 Shepherd Street. Name an address for the address. Thank you, Ms. Chairman, members of the Board Attorney Jeff Drago and Drago and Tuscana with the Business Adress of Leavenby Street. Um, seeking a deferral and working with both the Council of Raiden's Office as well as many of the butters we're seeking a deferral to make additional changes and reduce the size of the project. Mr., as has been deferred before Mr. Drago? It is not Mr. Chair, this is our first here. Okay. Mr. Drago, just so you know, we have, I don't know how long it's going to take you but we're into 2020. Great. We do have two open dates with December. But it's not going to be longer than that. I think if, if I think we could, that's fine if we could get it to separate date that would work. All right, well, first meeting the motion. I motion a deferred. Thank you. On its unfortunate, yes, Mr. Regiro. Yep, Mr. Dung. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Yes. There's a loan. Yes. I'm in favor of the motion passes me with today. You'll have a date of December 13th at 1130. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, 64, awkward street. Make the council hold on two seconds here. We'll back up fourth of my. What was the address again? 64, Clarkwood Street. Okay, for the record calling, be only 126374064, Clarkwood Street, name and address for the record. Yes. Good morning. Mr. Chair and Madam Mr. Gord, Dr. Dirk Small. This is just a, if you want, dobs of road. And we're seeking the world, 464, Clarkwood Street. Okay, you're seeking the referral? That is correct. What's the reason? We are going to go back and have another meeting with their great amount of band-aid with council. Okay. Can I have a motion please? Motion to defer? Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Gerro. Yes. He's done. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Niano? Yes. There's a loan. Yes. I choose to support the motion. The motion passes. Mr. Small, if you have the last date in 2022, we'll give you 1213. We have 1130. Now it's a $2,028. We would have hoped. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals to the 1030 cases? They're not able back to 930. Following the OA 128, 7168, the 199 Polar Street. This is a driveway curb cut for 5-barged-be parking. The violation is identical to 65, 6-8. The parking lot uses the bid. Name and address for the right. All right. This is only incorrect. Am I dad John Mitchell? I just did 76 Moist Street. Okay. Tell us what you're proposing, please. My dad owns the 199 Polar Street, and he also owns the 76 Moist Street. But we're having a little bit of problem with parking over here, so he decided to do some off-street parking. The plan, so he wanted to use the 99, the Polish beach side as parking for the 10th, here at 76, and his chance pretty much. And the parking since 78, and every year, I guess it's worse than worse, but parking. So what's on the plot used for now? They're nothing on it. They're nothing on it, but there's no paving, and what is the grass or dirt? What is the pavement used for? Paving, yes. Oh, it's paved, but it's not used for parking now. No. Okay, so there's no curb cut, so you're proposing a curb cut. Crap cut. Okay, and I can't quite tell if I'm drawing how wide is the curb cut? It's 10 feet. 10 feet. Yes, it's called out as 10 feet. Mr. Chair. Okay, and what will the rest, so I see you've got, you got one, two, three, four, five spaces to pose. What's the rest of this pit? Is the entire lot paved? Who knows. Most of it's the wider part is grassed. Okay, so the idea would be that you would come in the curb cut and go to the existing pit area, and then turn to the left at park, have five parking spaces, and the upper left hand corner of the lot would continue to be grass. To right. Okay, all right. Mr. Robinson, any thoughts on these lands? I think definitely the proposal is fine, so I just want to clarify. So you also, your chance will have access for more, correct? Yeah. Yes. Side of the building, which is an existing, looks like an existing curb cut, drive lane, I guess past the three family or whatever number of units is. I think the only thing we should probably do is see if we can, we need to screen and buffer obviously parking. So that will be a requirement and provide sort of that aspect of it. So I think there's no question on the proposal really, except for we should just make sure it's done right. I second, Mr. Robinson, consent to explain the buffer. Yep, okay. So you should, for the Griffin Zero, where that, you know, that means landscaping, bushes, trees, whatever, some form of making the, the lot not look just like an empty pit. Okay. Okay. All right. Very good. This is yet. I don't think Mr. Domingo is on, but he did comment on this one. He says, 199 full of street is fine. Okay. All right. Any other questions on the board? One, want to testify in the board against the proposal? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Eric James of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the applicant for 199 full of street had no butters, meaning on August 24, 2022. And they also met with the Dorshast, Unified Neighborhood Association, which ultimately decided to oppose this project. They cited opposition in regards to current lack of on street parking spaces and the imposition and difficulties it would print on Polished Dream residents. In total, we haven't received any letters of support for this or any letters of opposition besides that one with his property. So at this time, the mayor's office would like to express the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you. Mr. James, can I ask you a question? I'm a little confused. This would be adding parking to the area. So why was your concern about it reducing parking? At this time, they didn't necessarily specify. I know that generally, many people have concerns about congestion and they have concerns about the number of cars that would be added to a street. As of now, I know that they said there would be imposition and difficulties that would place on the Polished Dream residents. I believe they have maybe concerns in regards to congestion. But I do not have those exact answers at this moment. Okay, thank you. That's anyone else who wants to testify? Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands. Oh, good time. You just popped up. No, no. In Alicia. No, second. Can you please name an address for the record, please? And the Sylia? I'm not going to get tested on you here. Hi, yes. Are you able to hear me now? Yes. Yes. Hi, sorry. My name is Celia Claver. I live at 1382 Rivers Street. And I wanted to testify that I'm in support of the project. This being because I live about a block away. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, can I have a motion, please? Just one question to the applicant. It doesn't appear or air change. It doesn't seem that it's parking on this side of Polished Dream. What it looks like to me. There's parking on the other side. So I can. No, there's residential parking on Mortar Street. No, on Fuller. On Fuller. Is there? Yeah, the whole street is parking. Both sides? Yes. Okay, so that's where the question is coming. Because you're adding a curb cut, which would be taking away at street level parking. However, you're adding five spaces. So I just wanted to clarify that. I have no other questions. I think the proposal is fine. So I just want to make a motion. Yes, I'll make a motion to approve with BPA sign review for screening and buffering of the off-street parking area. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes, Mr. Runjero. Yes, Mr. Don. Yes, Mr. Robinson. Yes, Mr. Piano. Yes. This long. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. So just make sure that you check in with the BPA about screening and buffering. We take that pretty seriously. Thank you. All right, thank you. Following an XK, calling BLA 120 8535 265 to 265 C minor street. This is a wrecked, a new four story of private roof decks, five unit townhouses, residential building with off-street parking. Violation, Article 6568. How do I help you to the bin? Article 6569, the floor of the Aracial Successive. Article 6569, the building has access to the stories. Article 6569, the building had an excessive fee. Article 6569. The front yard is insufficient. And Article 6569, the side yard, is insufficient. Maybe not, that's better actively. Morning, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Board of Attorney John Pogini, 10 fourth, growing a branchary. With me this morning is James Christopher on the architectural team, together with Martin Kerr and John Diarty, who are the owners and developments of this proposal. So, excuse me, 265 minus street and doorchester, the zoning in this neighborhood is 2F6000, this lot size is 7478 square feet. The proposal is to build a new three story residential building with five condominium units and six parking spaces totally contained in the building. The internal parking we assessed on the left side of the building to a shared driving with 269271 minus street. The violation is multi-family and 2F zone. FAR is a point four is allowed, we're at 0.86. Building height is 35 feet. We are at 39 feet. Building stories is 2.5, we're at 3. Front yard is 15, we're at 10. Side yard is 10, we're at 4.6 on the right and 1.10 on the left. And that is the area that focuses with the shared driveway. Other than that, we comply with all the mentioned requirements including parking in open space. The building program, I'll just go through that quickly. Unit 1 is 1238 square feet. It is two bedrooms. Unit 2 is 1210 square feet. That is also two bedrooms. Unit 3 is 841 square feet, two beds. Unit 4, 841 square feet, two beds. And unit 5, it is 1248 square foot. That is four beds. Unit 1 and 4, by level units and unit 5, is a flat unit. Unit 3, 4 and 5, you'll have small roof decks which is step back and are specific to those units access to a hatch. And in closing, we went to a lengthy community process and based upon that, we had reduced the type we originally at townhouses. They would didn't want that. We changed the design and trunk the building and we provided the board 30 less support. Any questions? We're here. Okay, so this is five units in a 12, 2000 district. Is that correct? Uh, 2, 2, 2, 6,000. Correct. Thanks, 2, 6,000. I'm sorry. Um, okay, so we are, we're packing it in here. I can see. Um, To that point, we do have, it's a very irregular shape. Lot, Mr. Erlich. And if you look at, we don't have any open space violations. There's a lot of green space. The people that lived in the rear would like a big buffer and it's a significant, you'll see on the plants, a money green space is associated with this proposal. Okay. Yeah, I'm keeping. Okay. And, uh, and tell us about the parking again. With the parking access access on the left side of the building and it is internal inside the building. Okay. Six spaces, Misselle. Six spaces. Yeah. Okay. All right. Can you keep scrolling beyond please? All right, Mr. Robinson. How are the drones? Um, I think the drawings are fine. You know, I do, it does feel tight. I'll be honest, it's tight. I mean, it is tight on the shared side, but the lot is obviously irregularly shaped. So, um, you know, I think it's tight again on, um, two fifty seven side, which is the right hand side. Um, but I, you know, it, it feels a little tight. I'll be honest, but I'm not sure if there's much we can do and due to the shape of the lot. I mean, I think that it seems like they're trying to step the building as it moves back to sort of keep some, um, sort of relief on the right hand side. I'm not as worried about the left hand with the drive, the shared drive, which will remain then. So, uh, you know, I think it's, it's a little tight, but other than that, I think the program's fine. And what's your sense about design context? I mean, I think it is a little bit further forward. I'd be interested about the front yard. Um, you know, the, the houses seem a little bit like all over the place. One, the one next to it's turned against the street. So, it is a little bit hold forward as well. Um, in terms of the aesthetics, I think that, um, um, it sort of matches some of the stuff around, but it's all kind of a mismatch anyways. But, um, so I'm not sure if I have a strong opinion either way. I do have one question on the roof deck access. You're showing spiral stairs. Um, is that with hatches or how are you going? It has. Yeah, okay. So, there's no head houses for that. No head houses. There you go. And this road, so we certainly have room to re-site the buildings in the rear. Yeah. In an early iteration, we had it move forward. Um, and we have plenty of room with retaining walls. It did, you know, it does increase dramatically at the rear, but we can. I can see, yeah, we can see it. Rest it. Yeah, I mean, I think it probably could use a little bit of refining. And, and I think maybe that's something that you could work with the BPDA on and make sure it fits in a little bit better. Um, but in terms of the, the, the sort of edges, I think it, again, a little bit tight to the side, the side yards, but, um, it is a very irregular, like shaped lot. So I understand some of the challenges, but. And then you can see Mr. Robinson, we tried to provide, if you could have one, uh, slide there, you can see on the, um, the side that would face in a better, it's not, have ownership of this. You can see that we did do screening and buffering along that side. I saw that. Yeah. Yeah. No, I appreciate it. I appreciate some of the effort to try to mitigate the, uh, the, uh, the sort of lines and the edges. So, um, no, no real other questions, uh, other than that from me. So, okay, thank you. Uh, and you got any questions on the board? Uh, anyone here who's up to speak, uh, for against the project? Yes, Mr. Chair, I'm members of the board of Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office, like to defer to the judgment of the board, background information on the community process are off to spelled in the butters, meaning on April 6th. Uh, we received a number of butters in support of 30 and total. Uh, there were also a number of butters in opposition. We received five letters, um, those opposition letters, psyched density, the size of the law, an area of primarily zone per, uh, one to prevent. Now, we also received a letter of opposition from the Ashmont Adams Neighborhood Association. I would have to defer to this one. Thank you. And, yeah, Secretary, we do have those letters, the Mayor's Office spoke of both support and opposition. Okay, the neighborhood association's opposition was based on what? I don't have that letter in funding, but I believe it was, uh, echo the concerns of those five butters. The size of the project. Mr. Chairman. Yep. Uh, Joe McGackle and City Council Frank Baker's Office would like to go on record and support of the applicant today. Okay, thank you. Duane Wads, go ahead, can you say your name and address for the record please? Yeah, my name is Duane Wads, I live at 9 William Street in Roxbury. Go ahead. I, I wanted to, to provide support to the, to the Urban League Project, I think it's the, is that this project? I don't think you're minus three project? No, no, it's not mine, it's the one that, uh, I'm warrantry. Okay, so you can go now down there, Joe. Yeah, Mary Alice, are you looking to give testimony on this proposal? You're a fan. Oh, can you say your name? Um, Mary Alice, other than 273, minor, which above 269, 271, which is, we end also owned by the applicant. Thank you. That would be used, excuse me. Come here. Hello. Hello. Uh, hello. Hello. We can hear you. Okay, so the, the land of 269, 271, about 273, or backyard, or bus, um, and the driveways that would be needed will be built on that property. So, literally, you know, literally it's construction in our backyard. My letter of law position represents the other two owners of this building as well. And one of our main, uh, problems is rat infestation. This building is on a third rat infestation. Um, the first rat infestation, I've lived here for 20 years, uh, the first rat infestation occurred after building of two similar residents. 251 line of street and the street has parallel to minus street, the buildings are back to back. Excuse me. I also know this rat infestation is 282 minus street. And I know the situation in the city. However, um, in 20 years, three rat infestations. And as I said in my letter of rat, go away. Okay. We have lots of money. We've seen them lost you. I have no additional basins. Okay. I don't know what happened with Miss Sallon, but we got the, uh, we got the point about the potential for, uh, construction triggering rat infestation. Okay. If no other race hands, I will entertain you motion. A motion to improve. With design review? With design review. Okay. Is there a second? I'll second. Secretary. Okay. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Regiro? Yes. Ms. Don? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Uh, I think I'm going to oppose. And Mr. Chinato? Yes. Ms. Love? Yeah. Okay. And I'm in favor as well. So the motion passes, but there seems to be a fair amount of the, the designer, you need to be pretty aggressive, I would say. And also the construction can take into account the about its concern by random station, but motion passes. Thanks. That. Following an ex-case, calling the LA 1260 388 27 Grennitch Street. This is proposed to demolish the existing construction directly to the free family. A handicap ramp on the first floor in three-off three-off five. Violations, article 55, section 65-41, of three-offing insufficient, article 65-2, the former of the existing building alignment. Article 65, Section 8, the multi-file me used for that. Article 65, Section 42.3 traffic visibility across the corner. Article 65, Section 9, Laudieries and sufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the Florida Eiratio was excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building ties excessive in storage. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the side yard insufficient. And Article 65, Section 9, the ray yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record. Yes, good morning, Mr. Chairman. Remember to look forward to turning Derek small. There's this dress up at the point, drops the throne, rank tree. Mr. Chairman, we're here today seeking relief to demolish the existing structure and erect the free family dwelling. He's only in some district here, there's a two F-5,000. In our lot size, the marks can be very successful. A zoning violation for our spot loss. From our area ratio, environment is 0.5. We're proposing 1.4. Building height, environment is 35 feet. We are at 346, but we're excited for the number of stories as the proposal is worth historical. Front yard, 15 feet is the requirement. We're proposing 6.5. Side yard violation, climate is 10 feet. We have 5 feet on the right side. And 3.5 feet on the left side, and it is 1.5. The rear yard, our violation, climate is 20 feet, and we have 5 feet. Again, it's because it's a corner lot. With regard to the units themselves, the two Pregnant units, baths, the square footage is a fox thing, 1300 square feet. You can open it up for any questions. I mean, it's just small. The existing structure that was supposed to be demolished is what? Two family? It's a one family dwell. The one family. That's correct. I mean, we're proposing it the right way. Right. So just a quick look at the Google Maps. Seems as if three stories is higher than most of the buildings in the adjacent buildings. Is that true? I can't quite. I believe that is correct. That's a little bit higher. Okay. Yeah, I see mostly two-store buildings in the neighborhood. Yeah, some mix. And you're pretty much covering the entire lot. That is correct. There's room for some screen space in the front where there is some existing parking. But we're removing that. We're removing all the parking spaces. A lot more screen. Yeah. You're going this one down. You're removing all the parking there. No, I said there is a front yard parking space which we're removing that kind of exists. And we're going to put the parking to parking spaces in the rear building. Right. Okay. How are the drawings Mr. Robinson? The drawings are filing in terms of the proposal. You know, I do think it feels a little dense for the site for certain. You know, I think that they are filling the site and providing the parking off the side street. I just feel like it's a little too dense and it's pushing tight up against the right hand side property line as well the way that it's being configured on the site. So drawings are fine. I just feel like maybe it's just a little bit too dense. It's my sort of gut reaction of it. No other questions in that? Mr. Chair, secretary here. Mr. Dominguez spoke on us like to put his comments in for the record. Go ahead. Regarding 27 Greenwich Street, it does not have a new curve cut shown on the plans. Although myelin street is only 15 feet wide, he would like to see another new curve cut location. Right. Myelin street doesn't have curves. Right. It's so I don't, I'm not sure what. Yeah. It looks like, yeah, it looks like it's just a private way that it's paid, but it has no curves. And so you just pull into the side of the... I don't think he wants to see it on myelin street. Oh, he wants to see it reconfigured to the front. Correct. Got you. Yeah, the intent is to pull it off of myelin street directly over the curve. No sidewards. I don't know how it would get reconfigured to the front, but because it barely integrates. It's barely any room to do anything. So, all right. Any questions in the board? Anyone want to testify in for against the proposal? Yes, Mr. Chair, I remember the board, Connor Newman with Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time, our office pointed to first judgment to the board. Our background information on the community process our office held in the butter's meeting on January 6th. There were some initial concerns from residents in the butter's regarding the lack of green space and the height, although the applicant made some changes to that to address those concerns such as green space in front of the building. The Fields Quarter Neighborhood Association did not take a vote on this. They were to disagree with the applicant regarding the drainage concerns. You can see where exactly the catch basin will be placed eventually ahead of time for the project. So, they did not take a chance on that. With that, we defer to the board. Was there Mr. Small? Was there an adjustment made to the height or just the front there? Yeah, initially we had proposed a roof deck in the original presentation and we removed the roof deck. As a result of meeting with Bill Cornyl's Civic Association. Okay. So that brought it down. Okay. So that wasn't in there. Any other public testimony? Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Joe McGeckron City Council, Frank Beggar's office. We're hoping that the applicant could request a deferral today. We just think he needs to work with the neighborhood and the Civic Association and address their concerns. Okay. Okay. Carlo, comment? Good morning. My name is Carlo Horation and I live in 511 Northville, street, Madapet. I'm here for 64-square-quarters streets. Oh, okay. We'll have a minute. I know where we're going. We're going to the street. Mr. Gia, members of the board, all of the city council lies in McIpley. I can't remember the sentiments of council of Baker's office. The council would support it deferral. Thank you. I have no additional raise hand. But can I just ask people really quick to pay attention to the stream? I'm trying to make people panelists so that it's easier to navigate. You have to accept that designation once it pops up. Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for that clarification. There seems to be, I mean, this is a dense proposal. And there seems to be some sentiment to have the applicant continue to work to come with a proposal that's more acceptable. The city council's proposed a furl. That in some ways that makes sense to me. I'm not quite sure what can really be done. There are such limits in terms of the black, but I would entertain a motion. I'll make a motion actually to deny without prejudice. I think it's a 2F-5,000 and it's only a 3600 square feet. So I'm struggling with the third unit. So I will make a motion to deny without prejudice. Is there a second? I'll second that motion. Secretary. All right. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Regiro. I'm Neil Gell. I'm sorry. Yes. Ms. Dung. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Ms. Pignano. Yes. Ms. Lone. Are you on mute? Are you on mute? I think I took off mute, Chitas. Yes. Okay. Well done. Good recovery. All right. And I also support that motion. I think that there's a illusion here, but I don't think that the one that's being presented is exactly the best. So the motion is to deny without prejudice. I'm Mr. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Board, have a good day. Mr. Chair, it's now 7. Now 8. I'm going to call the 11th block. We had the Subcommittee last Thursday on the 13th. Call it into the record. Calling the first calling cases. He's BOA 135889616 Cook Street. Was to compare him. Watches are two family dwelling. It was approved with BPA, but no more and exterior elevation. On a case BOA 1349606 417 to 423C West Broadway. Was a sweet 406 change of professional office. I have petition. It was approved with the visor this applicant only. The next two cases, BOA 12683775974E7 street can be a 1337665 596E7 street. Was to change the log from a single family to dwelling proposed. It was approved with the proviso BPA for side windows and design. The 596E7 street was a confirmed argument with a single family and changed our current single family to a two family. It was it was approved with no federal in the basement. Case BOA 137022025 Avenue was a curb pet for one vehicle. It was approved for visor reduced to curb pet to 10 feet. Case BOA 1349675 for a devour street. The demolition of existing courts was approved. Case BOA 135033877 Lodgemont street was a small addition of the back of the house with elevator, bathroom, downstairs, and closet. It was approved. Case BOA 115362626276 Femont Avenue was a renovation extension of living space in the rear of the house. It was approved with BPA and two proposed two proposed rules to be compliant with all zoning. Case BOA 133400413 Austin street was adding a climate sports. It was approved. Case BOA 1353585 41 NICSH Avenue was a construction new master bedroom was approved with BPA for the dormant. Case BOA 1361549354 Lee street was a solid addition and addition located the rear of the existing house. It was approved. Case BOA 1385651012 Ridgemont street was an accessibility project. They had one story of a hundred and forty four square feet for the first floor bedroom for disabled. It was approved. It was approved. And on the rediscussion case BOA 1265152 10th passing street it was deferred to the December 8 220 at 22 subcommittee meeting at 1010 Mass Out. That concludes the subcommittee's report. Motion to ask the recommendation to the subcommittee. Is there a second? Second. It's a fortune. Yes. Mr. Jero. Yes. Mr. Dung. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Pinyano. Yes. It's low. Yes. I say yes and most of the passes. Okay, I'm going to go back to the 930. But before I do that, this one's going to be a long one. So I'm just the applicant on for warm and should be before I go into all the details. Yes sir, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Fortune, whatever happened to the the vastness street. Did we ever locate the applicant? Well, we haven't concluded the 930 case. So I'm going to leave that to the end. Okay, that's fine. We're still at 930. So I'll do that at the end. Okay. Case calling next. Calling the next case down to BOA 1298301117 Warren Place. Just to combine three lots into a newly created single lot of 20,193 square feet. Direct a six-story mixed-use building comprised of 65 residential units, adult education center, office, and 24 biomew spaces. The most probable be constructed at a single-level steel podium over slab on grade with five levels of residential wood frame. The height should be no less than 70 feet on an automatic high rise and the entire building will be sprinkled. The violation of Article 50, Section 28, MFR and 3F 4000 uses for bin. Article 50, Section 28, the office and 3F 4000 uses for bin. Article 50, Section 28, adult education center, 3F 4000 uses for bin. Article 50, Section 28, the office and MFR LS uses conditional. Article 10, Section 1, parking within five feet of the side lot line. Article 50, Section 29, EDI Alec EDI, copyrightedBlack, Section 25, 북ering Area, Article 258, Section 29, Article 566A29, Article 566A29, the additional lot of areas and sufficient. Articleti, Section 27, the federal protections and remotely fulfills this attached independently. Superintendent project I agree, we're building 32nd and V big sometimes KX. . , . . . . Article 50 Section 29, the front yard is insufficient for 3F 4000, Article 50 Section 29, the front yard is insufficient for MF RLS. Article 50 Section 29, the side yard is insufficient for 3F 4000, Article 50 Section 29, Section 29, the side yard is insufficient for MF RLS. Article 50 Section 29, the rear yard is insufficient for 3F 4000, the rear yard is insufficient, Article 50 Section 29 for MF RLS. Article 50 Section 44.3, the traffic visibility, the traffic monitoring. I'm going to add this for the record please. Mr. Chair, I plan to recuse myself based on my prior association with the applicant. Thank you. So we have a six member board which means that you are entitled to demonstrate the parole should you so choose. Thank you Mr. Chair, we'd like to proceed. Good morning. Secretary Chair, members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Quilty and Miller. I am here with the partnership of the ownership and the proponent. I client, Madison Park, Development Corp, Intia and Bogey Azazas with us as well as Meg Regan from Madison Park. Also with me is Joseph Feaster, Attorney Joe Feaster, who is chair of the board of directors of the Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, who is the owner and joint venture with my client at this location. The site is a unique property site, corner locked with two fronts, one on Warren Street, one on Warren Place, just outside of Newby and Square, about 20,193 square feet of land. It exists with a two story commercial building which has been the headquarters of the Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts for 27 years. There is a large surface parking lot towards a long Warren Place at its other front. And as was read into the record, it's split between two zoning districts, an MFR LS, which is along Warren Street. It's more commercial side and a three F 5000. The long existing uses do not conform to that. Again, it's been a parking lot and a commercial building. The proposed project is a joint venture between the two established local nonprofits would provide for a new headquarters for the Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, about 7,500 square feet of space, in a six story building approximately 82,500 square feet. We're looking to introduce residential, which is a conforming use at the MFR and is consistent with the three F 4000, 65 residential units total. There is a mix of both home ownership and rental 22 condos, 43 rental units, 10 of which are three bedroom units, no studios, and they're all income restricted, affordable housing for a range of income levels. There are 24 parking spaces on site, new bicycle parking, and as part of the article 80 process for large project review, we're doing a significant amount of new sidewalk and connectivity improvements, including granting some pedestrian easements from our property itself. We're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we're going to go to the next one, and we are going to go onto the next former metro cross precisably Advance, and we are going to go into this next where we are now, and we're The front yard is a 20 foot setback. As I mentioned, there are two front yards on this site. And footnote section 44-2 notes conformity with building alignments, which we have on Warren Street. And we also think that we're consistent with that or trying to be consistent with the context of introducing the new building on Warren Place. The rear yard requirement is 20 and 30. Our rear yards are towards the interior of the site. We only have one butter on that section, and that's the Gordon Cromwell Theological Society. They're here in support. And the side yard requirement is 10 feet on both. And we are 1.5 feet off with some other design and building setback. We also are proposing an MFR, which is, you know, extends into the combined lot where there is a 3F-4,000 designation. Finally, with respect to the process, Mr. Chairman, I submitted for the board of memo and support of the variances that included the PDEA's board recommendation. We filed for Article 80 review back in September of 2021, went through an extensive process, two cuts of IUG formation as the new City Council are got established. We've earned lots of support, and we've also tried to work with some of the concerns and the opponents that we've heard from as well. And you have a full accounting of those letters, including in support from our direct-to-butter, the Gordon Cromwell Society, and elected officials and some organizations as well as IUG members. But may I'd like to just turn it over briefly to Attorney Feaster, talk about the ULEM, and then have Kendra Hollowell, who is also with us from Icon Architects, is the Project Architect. Attorney Feaster? Thank you very much, Attorney Ali. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Joseph Feaster. In my capacity as chairman of the board of the Irvilega Feaster, the Massachusetts 88 War Street, Roxbury, Massachusetts 02119. Attorney Hanley has represented to you the project in totality as to what we're proposing there, but I wanted to put it in context and give you the rationale for this and also elaborate a little bit more on the extensive community process. We're speaking of an organization, Irvilega, meets the Massachusetts, which is 103 years old. We've been at this location, which was previously of the phone company. We've owned that property for the past 27 years. We have run programs, community-based programs, out of there for all that duration, and certainly throughout our history is 103-year organization. We've worked at this location, obviously, during that entire entire print. When we thought about this project six years ago, we went through an exhaustive process of communicating with our voters, our warrant-based, in particular, with the Gordon-Prom-Rail Theological, which is our immediate voter. And we went through an exhaustive process, even before we entertain a collaboration with Madison Park, Good, Nagle and Dissociation. And we wanted to make sure that we were able to maintain our office and program space at that particular location, and have it been there for so many years, at a very iconic corner there in Newvean Square. Additionally, what we wanted to do was to have a housing both residential and home ownership. That's a pillar of what the Irvilega is all about. And we wanted to make sure that it was affordable, and that home ownership we wanted to talk about building wealth within the Black and Brown community in Roxburg. Extensive community processes noted, and I'm sure the letters that you received, and you hear more on that, hopefully, as we go further into this hearing today, certainly encourage the board to look critically at this project. I think it adds an important dimension for Newvean Square. We're excited about our collaboration with Madison Park. We intend to continue in our community-based program, which primarily is providing job training and all types of educational programs for all ages, an intergenerational approach in our community. And many of the programs we have provided now, such as our computer program, whereby persons who've been come to their Irvilega, utilize our computer labs in order to do that. We have training programs and graphic arts, we have training programs and computer literacy, and we just want to be able to continue that in this location, and that's the reason why we brought forward this project. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Feeser. Let me, Mr. Haley, before let me ask you a bunch of questions. Yes, sir. You or the architect can respond, you know, I'll leave it to you guys. So this is your sort of standard, one floor of steel, wood frame above podium, right? Correct. That's a construction method. And is this slab on grade? There's no underground. Yeah, Ken, Ken Rudd, Hall of L from Icon Architects, that's correct. Okay, so here's what I'm trying to understand is, I totally agree with Mr. Feeser. This is an iconic corner, I'm very familiar with a lot. The urban, how will the first floor be utilized, transfer combination of office space for the urban lake and parking? What, what, if we could maybe go to a slide on that and just explain that, that would have to be helpful. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair, Ken Rudd. Can you direct the ambassador to the correct slide for that? We have two fronts in where utilizing that, Warren Street, of course, the urban league and Warren Place for the residential, but I'll let Ken to go through that. Right, it looks like we're looking at the zoning submission. So for the zoning submission, it looks, if you've got a paint. Madam Ambassador, if you have the presentation deck, we have a render floor clients. This is what we have, so. Okay, okay. Okay, so page 14 and 30, I believe, that says to a great overall floor, then set that monitor floor. Are you able to see that? Nope. Right, right. So the pink square to orient us all along the left-hand side of the page is Warren Street, which is a Grandler scale, institutional scale, where in place along the top of the sheet here is a more residential scale. So the building is broken up into essentially three volumes, three entrances. The section here is the urban league that establishes and holds its prominence on Warren Street with a primary entry. We have 7,500 square feet before. We'll have about the same going forward. It will have 7,500 square feet. Okay. We're programming in that space, yes. Be on the corner facing Warren Street and the corner of Warren Street Warren place. So that will be unchanged. Correct. Okay. Okay. And then I'm asking about from, as we're looking at the drawing to the right, from the pink area to the right, is that pretty much all parking in lobby? Is there, I guess all the answers are any other commercial office utilization? No. No. No efficient residential entry. Then the, you can see the right hand portion is efficiently laid out parking for 24 cars. Okay. That clarifies my question. And how many parking spaces are there? 24 parking spaces. Okay. For 65 units. Yeah. And how are those going to get a lot of to the, a lot of competition for those spots? So six, six of the spaces are dedicated to the urban lead 18 to the residential uses. We also worked really closely through the article 80 process for large project review to introduce bike parking, but also to make investments monetary and in kind to the sidewalks and the connectivity there to enhance walkability. Obviously, you LEM is a, you know, local based ordinance. Okay. Okay. Well, let's keep this, I want to keep it simple. So six of the spots are allocated to the urban lead. Yes, sir, which leads 18 for six units. Are any of those dedicated as the first come first serve? They're, they're unbondled. Okay. All right. And of course, we have, you know, 10 three bedroom units, which we're pretty proud of. It's likely that, you know, those three bedroom units would be the ones that would, you know, probably prioritize parking as far as the need goes. We're also programming this. I know that you hear this a lot, but through the article 80 process as a tea, you know, transit oriented development. I know, I know, I get all that. I'm just trying to, yeah. Okay. And we also have overnight use of those urban lead spaces for the residential east. Okay. All right. Okay. After six o'clock or something or after five. Okay. All right. And is the entrance to the urban lead on Warren Street or on Warren Place? It's at the corner. If you, if, um, uh, Stephanie, and you could go to the first page of the set. It says the primary, uh, perspective, then might answer some of these questions. All the way at the top. Okay. So the entrance for the urban lead though on Warren Street, correct? Correct. Correct. All right. Okay. That's the reason for the address. We in working with ISD. They had assigned us 17. That's the main entrance for the residential. Which is you'll see here is to the left. Okay. I, I, I, I get it. Okay. Mr Robinson, you have any, any question? How are the drawings? The drawings are, are good. Definitely went through the article 80. Large projects got followed a little bit. I think it, it does a nice job of, uh, transitioning, uh, from a corner condition, add a fairly large scale in terms of Warren, uh, down Warren place. So I think it's actually quite nice. And I think no questions in terms of the use, um, or the zoning violations. I think it's setting a, a nice precedent from the standpoint of the street scape and the relationship of the building, uh, to the pedestrian area. So no questions for me on the proposal. Um, okay. And the only other question I have, what have you, the open space? How are you resolving the, uh, requirement, that requirement? Yeah, Kendra, do you want to handle that? We're increasing the public ground by widening the sidewalks that we are not including open space. We're asking for relief on that. We are having a deck, um, outdoor deck program as well. Mm-hmm. I don't really put you. Okay. Okay. Uh, no balcony, sir, anything? Okay. No. All right, any questions? There's a book. Any questions? Sorry, I'd like to say the city is the playground. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Uh, uh, back can be used on any project, right? Um, okay. Um, any questions in the board? All right, is there anyone here to speak, uh, for, uh, for, uh, this proposal? Yes. Um, good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Kishisantana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Um, there was four of Butter's meetings held for this project. Um, they did receive strong neighborhood opposition. Um, the neighbors feel that, um, the questions they had weren't really answered, and the changes that they wanted weren't very much considered. Um, they feel as if it were caused, here's harm to the neighborhood. And would like to defer until, um, the new ZPA is in place. Um, they, I was told that they never told community that they started off with night, 90 units went down to 65. Um, they feel they shouldn't be any more than 10 units. I believe there's a, um, they also touched upon the affordability piece. Um, and they want 80% AMI, which doesn't match the box very AMI. Um, and the renaming of the proposal from 80, 4 to 80 Warren, um, confused a lot of community members in terms of, um, bringing it up, um, in terms of submitting their opposition to this, myself and the ZPA. Um, and other comments was that, lacks green space on the property and the building's height and density. To bring me in at this point, we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay. So as I understand your summary of the comments of the opponents that had to do with density and the formula for affordability, those are the two major concerns. Um, yes, but also the building height as well. Really high. Okay. That's the chair of secretary. And we have those letters that the mayor's office is welcome. Okay. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Yeah. Um, my name is Dwayne Watts. I live at nine William Street, which is about a clock and a half away from the project. And, um, and I support the project. And I support the project for primarily two reasons. One, um, Urban League has been an outstanding, um, community partner. Three of my four children have participated in programming out of Urban League. Um, their programming is needed for the, for the underserved community. They've been a great community partner. And then secondly, um, the project contains homeownership units. And it contains homeownership units that are affordable to families that are 100% AMI, 100% AMI, and 80% of AMI. And Roxbury residents, this is a great opportunity for folks to secure affordable housing at affordable prices. And these units can be obtained through multiple first time home buying programs such as mass housing, and HP, and sectionate to homeownership. So, so I fully support this project. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board also because of that, my employee comes into the whole residence for what? Okay. I'm Stephen from Councillor Fernandez's office. Can you go ahead? Hi. Thank you, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm here representing Councillor Fernandez Anderson, who is in support of the additional housing and home ownership units in the reach of affordability is part of the board. However, we think that any project going into a historically underinvested neighborhood should contribute to improving the neighborhood's quality of life. The community advocate groups, Mount Pleasant and Vine, Roxbury, United, Neighbors, Roxbury, Path 4, and Roxbury, RMC. In addition to the District 7 Advisory Council, which consists of all the civic leaders in the community are united in their request for green space. And additional community amenities to be added to the current proposal. In order for this project to be forward, we'd like to see the communities requested implemented. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Well, I'll be George. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of the panel. I'm George, executive director of the Guards Bay and Main Street, training three, training four Washington Street. We see this as an integral part of the ongoing development of new business square and the surrounding community. To further stand out of this project is that it's done by the longer patterns, the massive path development cooperation, which has a long history of housing development in the community of the basic. And no one needs to speak for the urban link, but in which history, they have throughout this country and here in Massachusetts and in New Bend Square. The learning opportunities, the craftsmen, that they provide, the residential affordability units. We all think that this is just a good critical piece of moving New Bend Square development forward. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, minor pressure, percent in the carpenters union. Would I do all on regular and strong support of this project and I'm curious to the developer for the great outreach to the community? Thank you. Thank you. Joe, can you say, did you, were you looking to give testimony here? Yes, I, yes, I have a, if appropriate, Mr. Chair, because I, I, I feel from held to have for respond to the representative. The representative of the man's homes, they serve as this, who I recognize is new in her position. I've been being the less than a year, I believe. And as I indicated early on, we have been at this for seven years. I also direct the board to the fact that throughout this process and certainly during the audit committee process, we have numerous community meetings. I believe we have more than 65 letters of support. This, the references that the mayor's office, the neighbors services that mentioned are of persons who are even not our butters to this particular project is maybe persons who live a number of different places. And as I stated in my earlier remarks, we devoted quite a bit of time to being sensitive to the concern of our butters and you may be hearing us from, for the illogicals, immediate of butter. Our residents along Warren place are have been in favor of it. And so this pronouncement, I'm going to hold this overwhelming opposition. I just take issue with it. I would have to like the board to consider that. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Feesor. All right. Anybody else? We still have a few raised hands. How many? How many do we have? We have three. Oh, four minutes. All right. I would ask people to be brief in their comments. And in the game, their supporter opposition and and only give us new information. Let's go ahead. Okay. Connie. Hi. Hi. I find what 47 more that she and a long term resident in Roxbury area. Three points. I like to point out that the urban leaders not getting or using any space. They're basically going from a service industry to a residential or home ownership model. And so now adding all these additions are going to be residential. The height was based on church people as being their judgements of the height being appropriate. Church people's not residential. So they should never have done that in terms of open space. It's nice to say that someone else who takes their open space. But I think it's the responsibility of the developer to have open space, especially in the happiness of having three apartment buildings. It is very likely to have children. We children should not be forced to cross multiple streets to go play. When there should be something on site for these young people. So I think it's unacceptable in terms of the addressing. It was very confusing for residents. I really should defer this until there's a meeting on the minds in terms of the address and also the communities concerned are addressed in terms of a butter. I'm sorry, but Union Square is serving served a huge community is not supposed to sit right next door to it. But the decades in generations multiple people and to say that only people who sit right there have out of the impacted is very unique and disrespectful. So I think that. Thank you very much. Okay. Can you say to me, Niagara. Hi, my name is Neha Beverly and I live at three length apart in Watts Farate. My kids go to have attended the Watts Farate Boys and Girls Club. And I am a frequent shopper in the movement square area. So I'm very and I've lived in this neighborhood practically normal life. There's no question that the urban league does tremendous advocacy work underserved members of our community. And I think that's appreciated and not disputed. I think that the majority of the, you know, the people who are giving their. They're not closing the project and giving approval for the project are basically giving approval because of that tremendous advocacy work and the fact that they are offering home ownership. And I think that's a great opportunity. Which is all great. But we are here to discuss the 22 variances that have been requested for the project. That is the zoning boards authority here and not necessarily judging the work that the urban league does. And I would disagree with the statement that there's going to be an effort to adjust concerns around the variances with different community groups in the area. And I do not agree that the city is the playground for children. And I do agree that people need green space. The emissions that will be released because of this building need to be offset by some green space on the grounds. They could, there could be a design that allows for more green space either on the front edge, which would be most appreciated or on the, the, the balcony or on the roof. And it's something that is, I mean, we need to keep some additions about the needs. There's some people say, I mean, there's some confusion here. Are there balconies or their balconies? It sounds like one of the. Okay. We need to keep the thank you very much for your testimony. This issue of green spaces several times and it's something that we will, we will take into consideration and our deliberations anymore. Oh, I'm. As many as your old day in the operations manager here at Gordon Conwell, theological Seminary, we're direct the butter to the urban league at 90 Warn Street. And we'd like to go on record as full support of this project. Okay, thank you very much. No additional raise. Okay, Mr. Hampton, are you there? I am, Mr. Chair. This was through a PDA process, right? Absolutely. And we are recommending approval with continued design review on this. What's the articleating process? This issue of all green space and open space keeps coming up. Is this something that was discussed that you think there's room to improve the design? No, with all articleating projects, there's always a continuing design review on this. So we can take another look at it. Yes. All right, thank you. All right. Can I have a motion, please, from the port? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD design review to look at the potential adding of some exterior space for the units. Looking at the site constraints, I understand on the ground floor, probably not likely, but I do think there could be the ability to add some decks or balconies on the building. So I think that would be a nice aspect to review as you move through the final process. I'll second that. Okay. Mr. Portun? Yes. Mr. Edgar? Yes. Mr. Don? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Lo? Yes. And I, too, am in favor. I think this is a really important site in the community and I think it deserves the best treatment I can get. So I hope there's some good revisions that can get made to improve the current proposal. But the motion passes. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm in member to the board. Mr. Chair, it's now 11.45. We have an included the 930 cases. We just want it into the 1130 cases framing to pearls with thralls. If anybody is going to defer their 1130 case or either a thrall or a thrall, give me the address, please. Hello? Yes. My name is Acacelala of five. Yes, sir. What's the address? Yes. Five Magnolia Place. And you're deferring? I am. Okay. For the record calling D.O.A.128-04235 Magnolia Place, name and address for the record. My name is Acacelala of five Magnolia Place homeowner. I'd like to defer. I recently made a revision to the plan that triggered a new coding violation. Okay. And it has to be re-advertised. Okay. All right. Can I have a motion, please? Motion at the fair. All right, Mr. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Gerro? Yes. Mr. Dung? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Vanito? Yes. Mr. Love? Yes. We have a date of January 10th of 2023. Okay. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 1130 cases only? Okay. All right. We met the modifications back in the 930s, so I'll try to get through them. Yes. I'm going to call the next case, calling D.O.A.1350628-1033-Mastro-Tuthavenil. This is to add, live entertainment, nowhere to be done. The violation is Article 50, Section 32. Use and restaurant 3736A with live entertainment uses conditional. Amen, Adria. Further record, please. Good morning, Attorney Jennifer Allen, four of Casabonita Business Agress 3 Pro Street. I represent Good Fiesta Group, Casabonita Bonita and the owner, who is also logged on. If you have any questions, I'll make this quick for you. As mentioned, there's no work to be completed as he's recently opened and renovated the full restaurant already. He seeks to cater to the patrons and the businesses of the surrounding area is looking to have live entertainment and a DJ playing Friday, Saturday, Sunday, starting around 8 p.m., eventually possibly increasing those number of days if there is more of a demand from the community. The lag will be held inside the restaurant. This cater is to the surrounding social, economic, and community needs of this area. Total capacity of this building is, of the restaurant is 66, which also includes outdoor seating, which is only seasonal. The owner, Mr. Durran, also owns another restaurant with an entertainment license which he has held for over a decade. His qualifications and experience in this field will ensure the sustainability of the restaurant and safety of the patrons while bringing some new life and food to the area. He has no record of any violations. There are other vendors in the vicinity with entertainment licenses, such as Donna Hambana and a former on Cafe. So granting this license will not alter the character of the IDI and will be in harmony with it. The nature of the music with the food will be Mexican, such as mariachi bands. It will not be too loud or offensive to the other businesses in the IDI. It will not disturb any of their adjoining residential districts, and he will also have security to ensure the safety of the public and the patrons. Any questions? Okay, so looking at the floor plan, where will the musicians be located? I'm going to let Mr. Durran speak upon that as he already has that figured out. Mr. Brown, are you there? I know he is logged in. I don't know if he has to raise his hand. Okay, let me ask you, while we're waiting for him, let me ask you a quick question. You said the music was started with time limit and. It would end upon a little prior to closing. And when is closing? 2 a.m. Okay. I see there is outdoor seating, correct? Yes. So there are 42 seats inside and 24 outside. I'm not concerned about the number of seats. What I am concerned about is when, in the season, when it's open, are the doors open and the music will not just be heard inside the restaurant, but also out of the street? No, it will not. The doors will be closed. The only thing that they would be looking to have is a little bit of background music outside, but the doors will be shut, so it's not to disturb the outside area. Okay. Yes. All right. Did we get the owner on the Zoom? Oh, Amy? Yeah. So, yeah, Mr. Durran, could you tell us where the musicians will be located on the floor of the plant? Basically, we're trying to make room for them on the right side of the plant, because we have, like, as you can see, a large, I mean, seating area, which is located then on the right side of the floor of the plant, because we have a large area. Okay. And as I asked the attorney, the doors will be closed to the outside seating when the music is being played. Oh, yes, definitely. Yeah. Okay. All right. Mr. Robinson, there's not much point in asking you how the drawings are since they... The drawings are fine. The drawings are fine. I just have one quick question. The address, it says 1033, but isn't this actually... Isn't that the liquor land address? This is 10... It's a different address, right? Just to match it. So, it's a plaza, so there's... It's basically various sweet numbers, so it is also... There's a storm right next to it, which is also 1033, but I think it's just very... Okay. So, this is the old... It was, like, hand-house chicken. Yeah. Okay. Got it. I just want to make sure I understood the site. Okay. Okay. That's the place. No questions from me. Thank you. So, the folks at 1010 will be hearing the music then, right? Mr. Fortune will be hearing... Oh, if you want to. All right. Any questions from the board? Is there anyone who wants to speak for our against a proposal? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Kisha Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Oh, and a butter's meeting was held on August 24th, where there was a low attendance, but the attendance did show support of the project. Yeah. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I have no waste hands at the moment. Okay. I know, Chair, in emotion, we might want to think about a ending time, too. Going, music till 2 a.m. seems a little possibly excessive, but I'll leave that to anyone who wants to make emotion. Anyone, from the board? I'll make a motion to approve with an ending time of 1 a.m. I'll second that, Eric. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. General? No. Mr. Don? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Yanjo? Yes. Mr. Log? Yes. Okay. I think one is a little late for me, but I won't know, but the motion passes 5 to 2. So it is approved with a 1 a.m. closing. I call the next page calling the OA1294436186. I'm going to read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. I'll read the last page. We're proposing a 4-story family in 2019 and the floor plans have remained unchanged. We are proposing if you go to the former side, please. We're proposing to formalize 689 square feet of the existing lower level to living area for media in home office use. eight foot plus clear ceilings and windows at both exterior walls. It is also in a non flood zone. It also has access to the street from the front and the rear of the building. Finally, we are seeking relief for FAR, which in this zoning district MFR is 2.0. We are at 2.3. Thank you. Okay, so I'm looking at the schematic. It looks like one end that's maybe I can't quite see the numbers, but the floor in it too great is front and back is what. In the front, Mr. Chairman, is 4 feet in the rear is 2 feet. Yeah, okay, nice. And this is strictly a media room, right? This is no bedrooms or kitchen downstairs. That's correct. Media or office. Okay. All right. How are the drawings, Mr. Robinson? The drawings are fine. I'm quite a little in the great. No problem. So, any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to speak for against the project? Sorry. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I may not wait with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh, and ask how do the butters meeting for 186th, I street on August 22nd, 2022. No, the butters attended the meeting, but the head of the neighborhood association where the property lies was there, and he said the proposal was reasonable at this time. We'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah, I have two right hands here, Anna. I sent a request to a new in-finished station name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam, I'm the chairman. So, they were Anna Calderon from Council President Fling's office. The councilor would like to go on break or in opposition. Thank you. Thanks. And then I'm going to make your panelist. Thanks. Malar, go ahead. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? My name is Miller, Tennessee. I'm a two at Massachusetts. I'm the owner of the building, and I'd like to let you know that they are rental units and they will continue to be rental units. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board of policy, the city council at Raj, Michael Quarry, who are Article 68 violations, the council of the go on record in opposition. Okay. Any else? Oh, Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. I have motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve. Just with the proviso, no bedrooms in this lower level, even though it's not being proposed. So. Second. All right. Mr. Marchin. Yes. Mr. Dero. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Niano. Yes. Mr. Low. Yes. And I tune in favor of motion passes. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Tim Johnson. I just want to thank the board for your great service over the years. Thank you very much. Thank you. Following an ex-case, calling the OAA 1336-811196 Street. This install is spiral state case the existing risk, technical, attack, egress, violation, tactical 68, 680, suspicion, very setback, amen. I just full the record. Please. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, Taylor Ferguson, contractor of record, business address 240 EC8 Street, South Boston. We are opposing the installation of a spiral staircase on the rear existing porch for this three-family three-store unit building. The existing report does not have egress to the ground and we are looking to create an egress with the spiral staircase. Okay. So what's the existing situation? The existing situation is the, this, we're exceeding the setback and the rear yard. The spiral staircase will come directly up next to an existing final fence that's completely closed off to the rear of butters. Okay. All right. Got it. All right. Mr. Robbyson, how are the drawings? No questions. The spiral staircase is within the existing back edge so it's not making anything worse. So I think no issues here. Okay. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to speak for or against? Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On August 22nd, I'm an host in the butters meeting for 190 West 5th Street. No butters attended. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Audit. Members of the board. I'm Anna Calderon from Council President Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Salon and Mr. Councillor Lads, Michael Larry. Along with the reference to article 68 has to make consistent. There are projects that do have merit in there for the board. The first of the board is not. Okay. Thank you. I do have a raise hand here, Taylor Ferguson. Oh, sorry. That is on the contractor record. Let's just. Oh, also. Okay. Thank you. I'll make a motion to. Thank you. Mr. Barton. Yes. Mr. Gerro. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Leonardo. Yes. The Globe. Yes. I'm in favor as well. The motion passes. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board. Have a great day. On the next case, calling the LA 134-875-155 Portland Street. This project consists of a nice story hotel addition to the existing onyx hotel and 155 Portland Street. The addition will be developed on 5,178 square foot by a lot, immediately budding the hotel. Project will add approximately 40,725 square feet and 77 hotel rooms. The violation of Article 2565, what has the district, Article 32, Section 4, the green dot-off of the ability. Article 2668. This is the built both in triangle district. We go through top addition with both in triangle district. Article 4666. The preliminary ratio is excessive. And in Article 4666, the bill and height of excessive. Amen. Adjourn. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Joe Hannah Schneider with the law from the Pebbleway and Barton 75 State Street in Boston. I'm here on behalf of the owner of the onyx hotel located at 155 Portland Street. We are seeking zoning relief for a 77 room addition to the existing hotel, which will be located and what currently is underutilized surface cracking area. Just to give the board a little quick history of this thing, the onyx hotel was originally approved by the BPDA and this ward in 2002. The hotel opened in 2005. It currently has 112 guest rooms with some limited accessory ground for restaurants. In February 2020, after an extensive and successful community process, the BPDA board approved the addition and then of course COVID hit and we don't need to go into what that did to the hospitality industry. But suffice to say it brought a temporary halt to the project. As the pandemic began to wind down, we reconnected with the city and the community and we are here today seeking zoning relief for the addition in order to bring much needed hotel rooms to a highly walkable area of the city. Hopefully there's still on with us. We did have several neighbors here to speak in support of the project and you should have received a letter of non opposition from the West End Civic Association. Everyone that we've talked to in the neighborhood sees this project is a good thing for the neighborhood. It's an expansion of a successful existing use. From an urban design standpoint, it will fill in a missing tooth on both the Portland Street and the French Street. And by replacing East or West Parking Lot, it will improve the pedestrian experience on both of those streets. It also will provide an opportunity for expanded ground for activity on Portland Street, including a better lobby and ground for restaurant space. Another amenity that we will be providing as part of the project is a rooftop terrace restaurant bar, which will be open to the public. We heard from many folks in the neighborhoods that they were particularly excited about this and it is certainly in keeping with several of the hotels approved by the board in recent years. I want to briefly turn this over to Harry Wheeler from Group 1 to walk through the proposal. Harry, are you on? Yes, I am. Thank you, John. Harry Wheeler, Principal of Group 1 Partners on West Third Street here in Boston. I think you can please back up one slide. Thank you. The existing on Ex Hotel, as John mentioned, is outlined here in the red dotted line. The proposed addition is in blue, which is currently a temporary parking lot that is utilized by the existing on Ex Hotel. Moving to the next slide, we show the proposed ground floor and lower level basement plan. Ground floor plan on the right, you will see that working left to right or north to south, we are providing a new restaurant, which will have a window wall, which is when the access and activate the Portland Street pedestrian rail, the lobby on the right hand side. I get as much more open right now the existing hotel is very small. We are utilizing all the street funds and the Portland Street to create open space and transparency into the project and create a great food and beverage outlet. The building does spam from Portland Street to the east, which goes all the way to the west. We have a basement level, which has a lot of our next great area and we are connecting our new stairwells and some storage areas and some resiliency preparedness storage space. Next slide please. Before you go on, this is in the flood district, correct? Yes it is. So you are limited by what you can do there. Yes. So all essential equipment is located above the floodplain in the first floor or second floor. The basement is really for access of the elevator pits, the egress stair, some non-essential equipment and storage. Okay, thanks. Thank you. On the right hand side, we have our typical guest room plan. We can see the gray shaded area of the existing hotel. We will be connecting at a mid-weight point into a hallway, which will have an access to new addition, our new stair and the 77 new guest rooms. On the left hand side, we are removing a few guest rooms in the existing hotel to provide some much backup house space for the roof deck, which is shown here on the left. They don't have an exterior space. They have about 1200 square feet in an enclosed area, bar lounge. And again, open to the public. This interior space will be open to the roof deck and we will have great views towards our station. Next slide, please. I can perfectly go through this. We have many mechanical levels and penthouses and enclosures for this project. So we have all the elevations labeled here. We'll show those future in the rendering so we can just keep moving forward. It's a very tight site with a lot of equipment to locate on the roof. Keep going to the next slide. So here's the Portland Street Elevation, the Red Break Building. With the T.O. accents is the existing building. The new addition is the line-stone and copper looking to the left. We are 92 foot eight of occupiable space along Portland Street. Zoning height is 100 feet. We do have our mechanical screens above that. You can see where well below the mechanical screens in existing occupiable space of the existing on the hotel. We are removing the two stories of the side of the existing building and creating a much more unified, upgraded experience on the ground floor to make this building feel as one integral piece. Next slide is the Rare Elevation or Fence Street where we do come down to Fence Street. Again, you'll see the roof deck, which the roof of the roof deck enclosed area does exceed our zoning height of 100 feet by five foot four inches. Then we have some mechanical screens above that. You can see we're still well below the existing onyx hotel mechanical screens and occupiable area. The next slide shows the building from the side elevation, which is not an elevation anybody could really see because we're cutting through the mid block. But we wanted to show this because we're trying to be very respectful of the street frontage and where we do have to have about height mechanical space. We're pulling that very much inward to the middle of the building to prevent any views of that mechanical screen. So that will be all as on the right hand side, 28 feet setback from Portland Street. On the left hand side with 39 feet setback from Fence Street. Those streets are very narrow. There's no view access of these mechanical spaces at all from the street realm. And you can see how our occupiable height of our building is below the zoning height on Portland Street and just above on Fence Street as we do have that roof deck on the rear. The next two slides just show the upgraded street experience on Portland Street. The new framed openings, the new NanoWall, the larger expansive glass looking into the lobby, which currently right now is not as much glass that has our receiving dock. So we're creating a much more open experience. You can just keep going to the next slide please. Next one. And here is a RFAR to explain why we're here for our FAR and zoning relief is when we permitted this project originally on the left hand side, this was in addition to the existing on-ex hotel, having 77 rooms to the existing 112. You can see the corresponding zoning height, square footage, and FAR information. In working with ISD, we've been asked to combine these sites. So we are combining and creating a kind of a mathematical problem where we are so maintained the 189 guest rooms, the 112 plus the 77. Site areas does not change, are combined areas 90,000. But what happens is we take two approved site areas of FAR areas of 9.3 and 7.4 and do a combined FAR area for 8.37. So it's just the combining of the two sites changes, the record of the existing hotel and the proposal of the addition. Next slide please and this is the last one. It's just showing the resiliency and compliance where we are maintaining the existing floor height of elevation 17, is that the existing hotel that we're adding to. But we're providing waterproofing barriers on the entire property up to the 19 feet where we need to be. And we have our movable waterproof barriers on French street and along Portland street, which we provide that storage area in the basement that we've made provisions for. I try to back to Johanna to talk about the zoning. Mr. Chair, I'm happy to walk through the criteria or the relief that we require or we can just go to questions. Yeah, let's move to questions. So the parking lot that it's been in place there to the leasing from Portland street to the left. That's been owned by the Onyx or by the ownership of the Onyx. And it's been used for what, for garden events and for guests, for what has it been used for in the interview years? It's principally been. It's a very small parking lot and it's principally been used for employee parking. I would note that during the articulating process we did submit a full transportation analysis which was vetted by the BPD and VTT and no one found any problems with eliminating those. Okay, all right. Well, yeah, that was my question is whether you're making provisions to replace to have all the forms of taking care of folks who work there. I mean, obviously it's close to public transportation so I assume that's how most people will get there. All right. Okay, Mr. Robinson, how about the plan? Plans are good. I really actually don't have any questions. Proposal to me makes sense. I think it's a good place for the additional building and the height is consistent with the existing obviously but I think in this area makes a lot sense. I really have no real questions from me on the proposal. Okay, it is encouraging to see that the hospitality industry is making the expand again. So that's a nice. Yes, it is. Any questions in the board? Yeah, Mr. Chair, just to see if they have the G-COT, Mr. Simonelli. Oh, that's right. Mr. Simonelli, are you there? Yes, Mr. Chairman, and members of the board get afternoon, Christian Simonelli, Boston Railroad Trust and we have both letters from the applicant. We have him as well, Mr. Chair. All right, now let me take just let's do a motion on the groundwater issue and then get back to the underlying zoning issues. Motion no probe to groundwater. All right, I guess. Mr. Fortin? Yes. Yes, Mr. Gerald. Mr. John? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Pinyano? Yes. Mr. Love? Yes. I have two in favour of the motion passes. Okay, we want to take testimony on the underlying project. Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, we're honored to be with the Mayor's Office, the name for the services of the meeting was held on July 20th. I know concerns for raise from the butters and so you heard from the applicant representation of the West End Civic Association, new letter of non-opposition. We're unaware of any concerns. Time with that we defer to the board. Thank you. Mr. Chair, a secretary, we do have a letter to support. Okay, any other raise stands? Mr. Chairman, members of the board, I'm a candidate on from Council President Flynn's office. The councilor would like to go on recurring opposition to this project. Thank you. Any reason, bye. No particular reason. Thank you. Okay, I didn't know this was passed off one area. Yeah. It is. It is okay. Jay Walsh, go ahead, can you say to name an address for the record please? Ah, sure. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Walsh, from behalf of the town to our North Association at 200 Portland Street. In the West End we'd like to go on record and support the project as was mentioned. The hotel does a great job in serving hospitality industry and these types of businesses are critical to the success of this area and our members and conduct to one record support. Thank you. Kunish, please take your name and address in the record please. Hi, good afternoon. Good Mr. Ghani, owner of 234 Friends Street at Dariqa, about it to the one to tell. I'd like to go on record to support the project and I believe it'll be great for the neighbor. Thank you. I'd like to hang out. Um, minor go ahead. And there's the passing. Thank you, my name is Professor. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, minor progress represent in the Carpenters Union. We'd like to go on Reverend Stranger's part of this project. Yep. I, uh, Sebastian Bill Funtgen, the executive director of the West End Museum and a member of the West End Civic Association, zoning and planning committee. The museum has been operating as a civic and cultural leader in the West End for about two decades and has had the opportunity to work with the Onyx and its owners on a number of occasions, including through the article of 80 process surrounding this expansion. The Onyx has always been a good partner for the community. They filled two long empty lots that had integrated their, and have integrated their architectural designs well into the historic character of the triangle. The West End's only remaining historic section. The museum really appreciates. I'm confident the Onyx will be a positive influence for the neighborhood and we fully support this project. Thanks. All right. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Chair, I have no additional resistance. Can I have a motion, please? A motion of approval would be be the end of you. I'll second there. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Mr. Gerrero? Yes. Mr. Don? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Beniano? Yes. Yes. Mr. Lowe? Yes. Beniano, I am in favor as well. Motion passes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have one more 930 cases after 12. So we'll do that and take it. We'll do that case and take a break. We have to get the other one. I'm going to call it into the racket. Right. Okay. Calling case BLA1344593230 Everett Street. This is a really existing building on a permit, separate permit and a REC-85 unit residential cornstery dwelling and parking for six vehicles on a party permit equipped with a lot. Violates. 32 sections for each car after the ability. Article 53 section 8. The MFI use is a bit. Article 53 section 8. Accessory parking use for the bit. Article 53 section 9. Expression side to accept that. Article 53 section 9. Expression front. Yeah. Setback. Article 53 section 9. Expression additional order for dwelling unit. Article 53 section 9. Number of a lot of stories has been exceeded. Article 53 section 9. The MFI allowed height and sub-districted. Dimensional chat has been exceeded. Article 53 section 9. Expression open space for a unit. Article 53 section 9. Accessory BLA. Article 53 section 56. Expression on street parking. Article 27. D-5. Expression on I-Pud. Article 53 section 9. Expression ready. Setback. David Edges for the record. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Richard Lohm's 245 Summars Street. Expression on behalf of the petitioner. Mr. Chairman, I am Mr. Chair. I just need to refuse myself on this. Okay. Thank you. I believe we also have Chris Pradov from Zephyr Architects. I was asked to be be elevated to a panelist so we can answer any specific questions. Mr. Chair, members of the board, I'm pleased to be here on behalf of Mr. Kermian and the HIA. Well, there was been a lifelong resident of East Boston involved in a number of real estate projects. This is our first ground-up construction project, hopefully. And we are pleased to talk a little bit about what I should propose on the site. So this is located at the Jeffery's Point section of East Boston. It's currently a double-sized lot for the zoning district. There's no kid in the 3F 2000 district at 4,500 square feet. We are proposing to raise the existing single-family structure and replace that with a five-unit multi-family structure. If we could jump down to slide the heat, it would be that it's the BPD abstracts to show what you lot size and just talk a little about the zoning. So as I mentioned, this is a 3F 2000 district, but as you can see, a lot width is about 45 feet and 100 feet and depth. And because of that, this lot could be sub divided into two separate lots for two two family structures. Instead, and based upon conversations with the community, and a lot of feedback that we did receive over the process of the community outreach, we have come up with a project that we feel fits on the site and is compatible with the community desires for this location. So this will be a five-unit building. There are a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom units. The average unit size is about 1,500 square feet. Again, that comes from the conversations with the community about having larger size units that could accommodate families in this neighborhood. We do provide a total of five-lifetime parking spaces. We can jump down to slide 18, that is actually the site plan that we can review. One parking space would be a side to each unit. This is intended to be for home ownership and would be individual common minions. So this is the site plan showing the structure as it sits on the site with the five parking spaces located to the rear. The garage would be located in the right side of the building or pass through the building out to an open area in the back with the five parking spaces being shown. We do have an area located to the rear that could be used for a smaller courtyard. Each of the units will have independent outdoor space with decks, as well as roof decks that are proposed and that would be accessed by a hatch. I was chairing this is also subject to G-pad, so I don't know if you want to handle the G-pad separately. Yes, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Brown, and I trust, and we have both of us from the up. And we have them as well, Mr. Chair. All right motion, please. Motion to the probe. Mr. Horge? Yes, motion to the probe. Okay, I'll take a moment. I'll take a moment. I'll take a moment. All right Mr. Chairman. Yes, Mr. Horgeiro. He's recued. He's recued. Oh, that's right. Ms. Don. Yes. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Ms. Pignato. Yes. Ms. Loan. Yes. I'm a favor. Okay, but that would take care of that. Please go ahead Mr. Moore. Thank you Mr. Chairman. And if we could just jump back to slide 12 and 13, actually a rendering that was prepared by Zephyr, actually shows the relationship of how the building would fit into the surrounding context. This section of Jeffrey's point does have a mix of uses. There are multi-families as well as some four-story buildings. Actually, this does back up to Maverick Street, which also has a similar type of design and feel. So this building, again that we're showing is consistent with what we see generally in the Jeffrey's point section of the explosion. I will point out, again, this has gone through a very extensive community process. The neighborhood actually had a lot of input into this project. And we were able to secure the very coveted support of the Jeffrey's Point Neighbor Association, which is not something that is very common. Okay, we'll get to that. Okay, so if I may, just again, as I went through the overview, I want to just roughly touch upon the zoning relief that is necessary. As I said, this is a double size lot. So the typical lot in this district is 2,000 square feet. We're at 4,500 square feet. So actually just shy of enough space for five units total when it was zoning company. We do meet the lot with a lot frontage by more than 25 feet. We are requesting relief on the side bearing. The closest point we come is 1.5 feet. 2.5 is the setback requirement, but there are some, you know, setbacks within the building that allow for the openings of the building code. We do have a rear setback condition, even though we are cited for it. Our building itself sits at 30 feet, which is the high setback of the code. We do show some rear decks, however, that do creep a little bit to the side yard setback by about two feet. So we are requesting relief for that. Our footer ratio is a 1.78, which is above the 1.0 that's permitted, however, very consistent with the FAAI as of the surrounding neighborhood. We do receive the height by seven feet at 42 feet, but we did, again, in direct response to request by the neighborhood through the neighborhood process, set that fort level back and differentiate the details and the architectures that we are sort of continuing along with the three-story massing along that side of the average street. And with respect to the open space, we, including the decks, we do have a little under the required 50 hertz per feet total of about 1.977 spread feet. And then, as I mentioned, six parking spaces. E is the requirement under the bone, however, we would be assigned in one parking space per dwelling unit. With that, and as I said, we do have a Christopher Dome here of the 30 specific questions from the board. I have three questions. Yeah, I have a couple questions. So the second and third floor is can we leave it out over the first floor? How far out do they extend? If we can go back to the site plan, I believe if they do come up with a public wait, Mr. Chairman, there within the 24 inches that is permitted under the de minimis design requirements for four protrusions or extensions over the public wait. I think our site plan is actually down at P.D. We could go. So yeah, no more than 24 inches into the public wait, which you know, saw that be required under the de minimis projections. And is the fourth floor setback? Is that in line with the first floor? Chris, if you could... It's setback further. It's setback further. Yeah. On the fourth floor we're setback 10 feet from the or almost 10 foot nine from the further forward point on that right side kind of second and third fourth volume. Okay, so you probably could see it on the second. Hey, 10 foot nine on the fourth floor. And what is the projection from the first floor? The first floor. The projection on the first floor is from that same spot. Well, from the first floor exterior wall. Yep, from the first floor exterior wall to the fourth floor or to the... No, two of the two of the... Back and on third. To the second and third. It's two feet. It's one foot eleven depending on exactly where you're measuring some of the two feet. Oh, it's 24. Okay, that's 24 inches that Mr. Williams is talking about. Yeah. All right. All right. Mr. Robinson, how are the drawings? Drawings are good. It looks like the second and third floor are set five feet back from the front property line. That's what the dimension calls out. So it's not hanging the sidewalk. I guess I actually don't have necessarily a problem with that. My only problem is on the side yards. You know, they're already minimal at two foot six and you're encroaching a foot on each side and looking at the plans, it seems easily possible to actually meet those two side yards. And you know, there's no windows on your side yard, but there are some on the adjacent building. So I guess I think we should consider that as we're moving forward. I don't have an issue with the rear or the actual program and height. No other questions from me. Okay. Yeah, it does seem a pretty dense use of the lot. Okay, any questions in the board? Does anyone here to speak you before or against the project? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I'm just a board. It's all I've needed to do with the mayor's office of neighborhood service. Before I give testimony, I would want to ask Mr. Lens to confirm the roof decks because I thought that the roof decks were going to be removed from this model. Yes, I believe before we able to go back to the site, yes, we did we didn't remove the roof. Okay, so I just want to make sure because you mentioned the roof decks. I just want to I apologize. Yeah, can I get a clarification on that? They seem like there are decks, but they're not on the top of the fourth floor. The decks on the third floor, correct? Sure, if you go to page 20, I apologize, I should have clarified. So there's no roof decks of the fourth level. There are decks for the setback of the fourth level, which you may front rear. So and those would be accessed by a walk out, I assume. Yeah, correct. They would then be accessed from the fourth level, not there's no yet. So we're showing you the roof plan, it's not showing the roof decks up. Okay, okay, all in parallel. Does that, does that, to the mayor's office? Yes, that is just a question. Thank you very much. Sorry, our office host to a button is meaning for this project. The first one in March 24th, second April 14th. The button has had a lot of concerns initially regarding the number of units, proposed as well as the addition of the roof decks. The applicant met with the Jeffery's Point Name and Association in January, February, April and May. The association ultimately supported the project. The applicants worked with the association, the butters extensively, and took all the feedback that was provided, ultimately reducing the proposed numbers of units from seven to five, removing the two roof decks as well as changing the design to better fit the character. The name of our office received one letter in opposition and 19 letter in support. At this time, her office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, we will do that one letter of opposition. I'm sorry, two lines of one letter in support. Okay, thank you. Anybody else? Have a few ways, Chancellor. I also thought with Daniel. Are they going to Bradley? Daniel, can you state your name and address for the work at please? We cannot hear you. We can't hear you. Can you hear me now? Go ahead. Thanks. Daniel Kruppi, I live on 9-9-rd street, I direct the water. I've worked extensively with the developer on this. They've addressed all my concerns, so I'd like to throw my support behind this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name and address for the work at please? Yeah, Bradley's on that 15-ever street. I'd like to throw my support for this project. I think it's great for the community. Thank you. I'm on my left. Alex, go ahead. My name and address please? I'm Alex. I live on 1-26 Lexington Street. I'm just going to say I support this project. Thank you. Does that mean? Does that mean? Go ahead. Sorry about that. Ammonages for the work at please? Yes, does that mean you're on that? I live on 432 Saratoga street, and I also am in support for this project. I think it would be great not only for the neighborhood, but for the continuous development in East Boston. Thank you. No additional raise hands, Mr. Chair. Okay. Can I have a motion please? I will make a motion in a little bit of hearing the BPA in my ear, which they recommended denial, but I would like to make a motion. You know, Mr. Raleson, before we should listen from Mr. Hampton. That's why Mr. Hampton was trying to sneak by on this one. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hampton, BPA. We did recommend denial without prejudice. Mr. Robinson raised one of our concerns about the side yard setbacks. And also there's a lack of real open space back there. That little patio outback just wasn't adequate for us. Thanks. Sorry, Mr. Robinson. What you going ahead? No, that's fine. So I'd like to make a motion to approve however not grant the side yard setbacks as requested on this report. I think through the BPA designer view process to complete the project, I think they can rework the plan and adhere to the side yard setbacks on both sides. And I think that's good for their budding neighbors. Is there a second to that? Yes. Mr. Raleson. A second. Okay. Okay. Is it working? Yes. Mr. Raleson, Mr. Chair, is it done? Yes. Mr. Robinson? Yes. Mr. Piano? Yes. Mr. Lowe? Yes. Mr. Lowe? Yes. Mr. Lowe? Yes. And I have to and I'm very, very, very motion passes without any very much. On the last case that we will go back to earlier that we were not here. B-O-A-1-3-4-4-2-8-3-1-Roll-D-Rode. Is anybody on from Roll-D-Rode? During the run it's now 30 and we just spent 930 cases. We did, we did. We did. We did. We did. That's our, I'm sorry, that's tonight's public holiday. You're okay? It's been a long 930 case. I'm sorry. Please B-O-A-1-3-4-8-0-5-120-124-1-24-1-4-1-3-1-3-1-3-1. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. David Address of the record please. 26-1-3-3, I'm the architect of the project. The owner is also on the call. Okay. Please tell us what you're proposing. This is a project that, that, that first, okay, I think you have it here. Hold on. Are you moving forward on the project? Is it referring? Well, we were, we were given the option of the referring but I was exactly, exactly when the deferment date would be. The one date till January 2023. So that, which is a long time for us, we have been waiting for a long time to get to the record. I need to call it into the record though. Hold on a second. Okay. So you want to go forward today? So the reason why you, uh, you know, no, no, no, no, no, no, hang on. Yes or no, we, this is a little long day already for us. Oh, this is it. But I just want to just simply, if the reason why we wanted to do the deferment is because, uh, uh, part of the committee process was not, uh, fully completed anyway and because we were not able to get into a, to agenda, some of the neighborhood groups. Well, then, then, then I would suggest you take it to the first. I'm going to take the furl because that's going to come up in the testimony and we'll end up wasting your time and our time ending up with the furl anyway. If you haven't completed the community process, I'm going to make a most bit the pearl. I'll second the motion. Eric. Mr. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Zero. I'm muted Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Robinson. Yes. Mr. Pignato. Yes. And I'm, uh, I am in support. Want to give them a date? Roger January. 10 at 11 30. 2023. What? Thank you. Sir is in the earlier date than that? No. That is your last word. We're all okay. So, uh, this month, the next month. All right. And it's now 12 33. We have unfortunately just completed the 9 30. Cases. Uh, but we need a break. So I'm going to suggest we adjourn until 12 50. Let's say, uh, well, on 15 to 20 minute break, let's re convene at 12 50 50. Mr. Chair. Yeah. I believe we're going to be losing one of our members here. And I'm going to be able to do that. Okay. All right. 12 50 re adjourned. Thank you. I mean, we can be. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Well, we're doing the best we can. Okay. All right. 12 50 re adjourned. Thank you. I mean, we can be. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.