 you you Mr. Yes, I believe we're all that ran here Okay, but the wrong call Mr. Stembridge here Mr. Shuppard doesn't Mr. Lam Yeah, Mr. Louisville here Okay, for yours, Mr. Stembridge We start by reminding folks sorry I name folks that we have a five member board today applicants have the option to For it's well later here in date to be heard by the full board, Mr. Stembridge Thank you, Madam Chair Moving into the 1 p.m. hearings Just in case I think people know there's any request for withdrawals of the thrills at this point Yes, Mrs. Derrige The the address is 34 Cobb in street That would be case the away 136 1964 with the address as mentioned 34 Cobb in street If you would not not mind Explain to sure so good afternoon Madam Chairman Mr. Board of 20 dark small have a business of just a 51 top some road today here we are here seeking a if for all of this case The plans have changed slightly and the plans examiner and ISD did not have a chance to review that thus we are asking for the At this time Thank you Any questions from the board Hearing none. I mean motion I make a motion to refer My second Dr. Mr. Stembridge Yeah, Mr. Schupper. Yes But hang on yes, as we well. Yes There are also yes motion carries. How near Yeah, August 29. It'll be the next the world Is that one? I believe it does. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you 34 of Vinton Street, please That would be case BOA 146 1276 Yeah, address of 34 Vincent Street Yes From background that yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair members of the board Attorney Ryan Spitz with Downs and Marianty business address of 168 H Street first floor self-glossing Where we request to get administrative deferral to be heard this have this proposal heard in front of the full seven member board, please Thank you motion Lincoln motion and defile the second Mr. Stembridge yep, Mr. Schupper. Yes Mr. Langham. Yes As we well. Yes Chair also what's yes motion carries Madam chair the third date for this one of the August 8 Is that what this is that's it's that one. Thank you very much. Thank you Then come to where please You must the first case Mr. Sambridge and that would be case BOA 130 443 The address being 10 tons of square Thank you, thank you, Mr. Stembridge. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with business address of 350 West Bargway and self-glossed and Madam chair members of electric question extension so that we may continue to work through community process I would also ask if possible that the extension date the October 31 On the air does that work? Yes Okay, would that may have motion Motion to defer until October 31st may have second that game Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Schupper Mr. Langham. Yes, Ms. Wewell. Yes Here also votes yes motion carries. Thank you Okay Okay Moving forward then Yes, sir case BOA 144 18045 the address of 592 to 608 East Bargway Is the applicant and or the represent the president? Yes, madam chair members of the board attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy business address of 168 H Street first floor soft Boston joining me today is the owner of the property Merc O'Donne as well as the applicant for the fitness studio That's going to be proposed in one of the commercial spaces Darcy Crinsky And then we also have Nick Lyon, Landry who's joining us who is the architect the proposal in front of us today is a request For a conditional use permit to change the occupancy from two residential units in one Nail Salon to three residential units one Nail Salon in one fitness studio Which is a forbidden use the proposal is in his only sub district of an MFR little services The building consists of a basement floor which is a walkout on the rear of the property located on Emerson Street a First floor Nail Salon in one residential unit located on the first floor in the other two residential units Located on the second floor the change of occupancy which is including these new proposed fitter studio will be specifically located on the basement floor Which at some point in time had a commercial occupancy but was Interferently removed from the occupancy with ISD for some sort of reason as for the residential units We are simply here fixing the issues, but the jacket which appears to be incorrect The residential units have been operative for many years the current owner discovered the issues and again This current owner is new he purchased a property within the last year And again those issues were discovered with the jacket when applying for the change of occupancy from that basement commercial space to allow for the fitness studio As you can see from the drawings the square footage is all going to remain the same There is no construction being performed on this property at all whatsoever At this point I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you mr. Spitz and questions from the board Okay, you're a man public testimony Good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board an an away with the mayor's office and neighborhood services Oh, and asked hosts and a butters meeting for 592 through 600 a.e.s. Broadway on May 15th 2023 No butters intended the meeting and we are unaware of any concerns from the neighborhood at this time They should defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Thank you. This one Good afternoon Madam official members of the Boa Rana Calderon from council president Flint's office The councilor would like to go on recording support based on feedback from neighbors and I grew in agrib Community process council president I think you respectfully request that I think continue to work closely with the community or any quality of life issues. Thank you Thank you miss Carl I think you're looking to give us money here You're in your sorry. No, I'm just the architect. Oh, okay. Sorry about that. All right. I have no additional ways to answer Hey, would that may have a motion I I'm The design And that's for the area accessibility for the business Hey, man, I'll go second Second, second Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Mr. Shepard. Yes, it's still laying on Yes, it's very well. Yes Chair also. Yes motion carries. We're gonna make thank you Next we have case B08147 3196 With the address 331 to 339 northern Avenue Please it's also a 388 part budget is the applicant and or the and or the representative president Anyone here for 331 to 339 northern Avenue I related bill You Can you identify yourself are you here for? Yes, thank you. Thank you to Secretary. Yeah, I'm a secretary of members of the board. I'm attorney J. I'm in a room at Junius and Rose with a Boston address of 12 water street with me is Joe Mamiak the architect of record and And from the latest fields the favor Greg Wood as an e-conu-cent Um the address is dual actually it's both northern Avenue on one side 331 to 339 at 20 22 dry dock on the other You can see on the visual The very large building across dry dock from our site This was a subject of a RFP issued by EDIB within the Raypoint Marine Park The proposal is for approximately 320,000 square-foot office lab building There will be 114 parking spaces in an underground garage Uh the site actually uh by the time we applied to ISP was thought to be about 85,000 EDIC owns all this land. It's it's actually slightly smaller and 82 it's changing Um, there will be some ground floor resale 3600 eating and drinking to success rate for the tenants but also A sitout non-profit space of 3600 for Grocer Marine Genomics Institute and the team will tell you about that that's an important part of the project This is an industrial district industrial to the uses are permitted by the right There are three forms of zoning relief thought We do need a additional use permit for the Accessory parking because it's a district park in district Averinance to allow an FAR not of 3.7 to but of 3.8 six because of the reduced site size and then to a variance to wave the powder cut set back I thought I'll turn it over to Joe Thank you, sir. Yes, I'm Joe my account for SGA What you're looking at on the screen here is the section of the building It's like buying into seven stories You know about ground two levels of parking below The building has been rated in a very sensitive way to really respond to resiliency for the ground floor Is raised out five feet from the sidewalk, but you know two additional feet to get to 21 feet point You know five inches and then the building height itself You know goes from there with a you know 18 foot four to four in a first floor 15 feet Four to four for the subsequent floors about that and then you have a Mechanicals and house base that's on top So that's a nice, you know, section right in there that describes the project And down below is the ground floor plan so if you scroll up a little bit on that I can speak to that So that's the ground floor it has Is it has its edges and on the northern half the north tight street to the right Dryed off to you know down below and EDIC garage is off on the screen just to the left on on this image So the front door there's two front doors actually to this project one off in the northern half and one off of a Dryed off and it has a true lobby So it gets very activated on the right hand side We have bicycle stores some retail opportunities That faces off a dry dock and have and then off to the right hand side GMG But Jared mentioned which is you know state of the art teaching lab. That's going to be really active Not only for the Lobby side by also from You know the street side and in a place making around the edges of the building on the left hand side in the upper right hand corner is a Food and beverage opportunity That we're very excited about and then on the left hand side you can see there's a lot of support space As those we have the deliveries in the back of house and for those that would be thriving You know, they would have access off of a dried out half They would enter the building and there's an accelerated ramp that goes down to to two levels Of parking that is within the footprint of the building again. There's a 144 Car spaces down below That supports the project you can see there's some additional Transformers and switch gears for what can't side we have some additional Infrastructure that's of course up to these for life time in this case we have protect Who's gonna be a time you know tenets for the building itself So that concludes our presentation now we can speak to the Public benefit that you can imagine there's there's a very large Detainment about three and a half million dollars of course there's red Of being paid but there was a lot of effort putting to that by the A groundless or to make sure that this project was kind of benefit the neighborhood of the city of the whole and we can speak to that in detail as you Sorry, you's someone on your team speaking All right, that's the background then sorry about that Um, okay any any questions from the board I know we do we already have you we do have your memorandum from bpda. So is there anyone from bpda who wishes to speak? You Don't sound that way okay, is there public testimony Good afternoon Madam chair members of the board. I've an away with the mayor's office of neighborhood services 331339 or the avenue was a ppda project and went through their community process Oh, and this is unaware of any concerns at this time and it was like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much Good afternoon That the role making continued to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase and inequality of life issues. Thank you You Hey With that man motion Man travel for the mission of approval now Thank you mr. Stambridge Yes, mr. Shepard. Yes, mr. Langham. Yes, we will yes chair also once yes motion carries the lump. Thank you very much. Thank you That's to move on to case b081461909 the address being 2012 all calling the avenue Believe the before mr. Morrancy Yes, thank you mr. Stambridge, but afternoon Madam chair members of the board. My name is George Morancy I'm an attorney with the business address 350 was brought when south Boston This is an application for a new six-story mixed-use building at two 12 all calling the avenue in south Boston My client is cedar wood development and it's principal David when it can date the tail The site is a single lot of 1198 square feet Occupied by a single-story commercial building most recently used as a warehouse located within an m1 Restricted manufacturing zoning district under the base zoning code More significant site is located within the area of the ETA approved plans of Boston, but just our avenue Which provides for an identity guided growth along this major neighborhood Orchester Avenue and in this base hole colony avenue This building would have a basement containing only commercial space as well as elevator building mechanicals Ground floor would be occupied by a commercial unit engaged in with all colony avenue as well as the main residential entry and in the rear With access from large-prey to eight-car parking garage as well as a trash and recycling room floors two through five would just of two three bedroom apartments per floor approximately 175 square feet for total of eight residential units Pop floor would be an office with significant perimeter setbacks um the Office unit itself, which is intended as a future office for my clients would be approximately 2000 square feet My clients currently have their office at two 12 west broadway in self-bositing and are seeking to relocate to What would be the top floor office unit of this building? The building's six stories would rise to 60 feet in height Which is consistent with the 64-high allowance provided for under BPA approved gochester Avenue planning study While there are several zoning violations, I would point out that they arise from the fact that this is a Opposed mixed use but predominantly residential building located in an area's zone for manufacturing over 60 years ago That formal zoning plan was left in place only to be updated by future news zoning Consistent with the plan allowances and as a result of this area has been recently transformed by such major residential and mixed use development as Washington Village which is located directly across We'll call any avenue from this site as well as several other BPA and DBA approved projects in Closed proximity to the site on all colony avenue Point being that in terms of the zoning I'm asking density and parking provisions here are all informed by the BPA approved plan We're added in by the outdated base zoning code requirements soon to be replaced With that managed share members. I'll pause. I'll take any questions that that any members may have Thank you mr. Marzi any questions on the board Okay, hearing none May I take public testimony Good afternoon, Madam Chair members of the board. I man away with the mayor's office and neighborhood services Oh, when asked hosted in a butter's meeting for two 12 eighth-walled the avenue on May 8th 2023 around a dozen A butter's attended the meeting and the proponent answered all questions and the meeting was generally very positive The proponents also did outreach to the Boston Housing Authority senior housing development that borders this project And to the Andrew Square Civic Association again, they listened to all questions and addressed all concerns The Andrew Square Civic Association overwhelmingly supports this project in their own words We work with the developer along with BHA West 9th streets in your housing To make the following changes to the original plan and act to move the benefits first affordable commercial space in our neighborhood Buffering regarding and living while In closing a small port of the Belk news for senior housing in the back and parking for each unit at this time. I'm going to ask you'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much Thank you Including a unit with parking spots what work with the community on a Commercial space underground floor a community garden and attention to quality of live issues with Buffering for noise Consuppresorant fingers carefully West that it's in continue to work closely with the community on any quality of live issues during the construction phase. Thank you Thank you Good afternoon Madam Chair John Perkertowski Co. Chair and the Squarespace Civil Association development In a white basically wrapped it up very well from my prepared statement. One thing I will have The two tribal colony of development proposals came before a SCA community meeting on May 22nd Which developers, large roleist, Dave Mateo, Dave Winnex, the Wood Development at the end of Discussion and membership vote and JD and a 24 in support on a post. Thank you. Thank you You have no additional resistance All right, and have a question from the board You're not ready to have motion Um I will make a motion to approve with the provides of that plans be submitted to bpda for designer view With attention to the coastal flood resilience overlay district um and design guidelines for residential use That's right Mr. Stembridge Yeah Mr. Shepard Mr. Langham Yes, we will yes Share also votes yes motion carries Thank you Final case for today is case b 08 140 6478 Address being 84 Park Street Is the applicant and or their representative president Yes, this is jadey Barry. I am the zoning attorney represent Representing a few voo pin who is the owner of 84 Park Street I have a business address of 1156 doorchester app and with me today is the architectural firm. I'm presented by James Christopher From six eight six architects who also has a business address of 1156 doorchester app And the proposal before the board um It was revised during the community process It ultimately resulted in a proposal that's 14 units Uh mix of studios one in two bedrooms There's two studios ranging from 450 square feet to five hundred and fifty three square feet Fixed one bedrooms that are six hundred and twenty eight square feet to seven hundred and thirty nine Five two bedrooms that are eight hundred and fifty five square feet to twelve hundred and nine seven And there's one three bedroom. That's eleven hundred and seventy nine square feet Um, I want to highlight to the board This was originally a nine unit project In collaborating with the community in the fields corner so the association Their request was to make some revisions to the building in order to allow for some more parking in both important green space That is why ultimately um The violations are the Austrian parking The code would require 17 or 18 spots what we have proposing here is five The FAR the code requires two our FAR here is 2.8 Um, when I was getting to as far as the community process the height here ultimately landed at Uh 50 feet that was due to the community wanting the building to get tighter and taller Um, and because the the use is forbidden because this is we are in a light industrial A zone neighborhood of doorchester Um, with that I'm going to actually turn it over to mr. Christopher to run through the plans with the board and I will be here to address any questions regarding the zoning afternoon managing members of the board my name is James Christopher 686 architects of business addresses number 56 to Hester Ab um Three very wrapped up the building quite nicely. It's five story buildings Um, we have a building a six foot rear setback at 10 foot up right six foot at a cantilever so that we Do have significant green space to the rear with green space all the way around the building including the seven foot Setback at the front of the building which incorporates some planters that was part of the discussion With the community This iteration did lose one part in space as the result of the addition of the second means of egress and the stairwell um, and the The cantilever parking functions quite well off the street with the TOD with the access to local and bta and last night So that'll turn over any questions And I just wanted to highlight to the board very quickly. This is what would be considered transit oriented site Uh, there's a very close to the fields corner train stop. We did include bike storage And a few other amenities to try to address and and hopefully promote Less cars on the site. That was one of the things that we worked with community to try to address Um, and as far as What was a confusing part to some of the community members as far as um, the roof deck it was It's more of a green roof deck. It's not a roof deck. That's going to be utilized for um Any parties or anything like that. It would be only connected solely to the unit that the owner is planning to maintain Uh, and I think mr. Christopher can use the term better. I think it's a photo ball. Take it. I believe is the term for it The point was to try to create a a deck that is living and actually is good for the community and it's is a green element to the project So just on that we've talked about so how much of that is um What habitable? I mean, it's not If you slow down to the roof player Uh, right there So the only inner is the the lower roof outside of the penthouse level, which is the Three unit owners unit will be a green roof Uh, that we service walkways, but it will not be habitable Uh, from residential use Thank you. It won't last thing on that point. I apologize for bringing about better chair. Um, there was also uh, decision to add solar panels on top as well to try to add a green element to the building So just a question uh 14 units of is there an IDP unit? I believe it will be more than one um, I'm not positive of the The city's calculations, but I believe it'll be two Okay, so just to confirm the there will be IDP units. Okay, roll Any questions from the board? I have a question madam chair um, so we didn't receive these plans until this morning and we also had a note that Um, the applicant decided not to have them re-reviewed by a plan's examiner. Can you speak to that? Certainly, and that's something I wanted to address um, these plans We have in a butters meeting on December 7th. Uh, we followed up with the fields for an associate association on January 23rd There was a lot of collaboration with the community where they wanted us to do away with the three bedrooms and try to keep the building to one and two bedrooms and studios That's where the number went from nine to 14 As well as there was a big push for more green space around the building This set that is in front of the board was supplied in re-reviewed In April and then in June I sent along a just want to make sure Everyone's on the same page. This was re-reviewed by Mr. Demado. We received the refusal letter We actually went back out and did that third So I apologize a second of butters meeting Um, and may just to make sure that the community was aware of the changes We did meet with the fields for a civic association both in February and April to present this set And once we felt like the community was very supportive of this and had collaborated with our team Uh, it was re-reviewed and that I believed there was a little bit of confusion when I sent along this setting June To make sure that the board was getting the correct set because it did get re-reviewed out of the normal course Um, and when I followed up about the concern last night this morning I was informed that we could go forward If there is if there's concerns about the timing of this, um, I don't want that to impact the decision by the board Is that just your question, Ms. Rueville? It does Okay, any other questions from the board? Uh, is Mr. Domingo on for the parking or did he submit any comments? Mr. Snobridge? I'm Adam Chiebler Thanks, Madam Chieb, I'm members of the board about the Mico B2K I have a review of the parking clearance and you know, they work Okay, thank you Okay, uh, with that uh, may I have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board I so go on with my approval of services Um, 848, this is far too um, some background information that we're very involved within the community, how the board is getting to December I'm presenting the first corner-sip association um, and February and April and then concluded with one last update, we're meeting with no attendees Um, without further ado, thank you All right, thank you Um, Jeff, are you coming up here? See you on the trip I'm sorry, hello? Yeah, you looking to get testimony? Yeah, I'm just Jeff Mack from Boston, Dr. Zaw, we're in a butter, um, and we just want to talk about the parking, I mean, it got 14 units and five slots Um, we're concerned about parking because we have uh, employees that need to park in the area and we're worried that at some point it might turn into residential only Uh, we're also concerned about noise after a certain time as we do run a little bit late and a little bit early in the morning So um, we're concerned that there may be an issue with noise or complaints of noise in the area Even though it's an industrial area The other thing was the height in the building and again, a variance on that and other people in the area Want to do the same thing and increasing the amount of people that are in the area and parking again be an issue So um, we're not against you know building something we're just concerned with uh, parking and noise, I guess the height so um, we just want to let put that in there But the noise for who because uh, you know, your use sounds commercial, is that correct? Yeah, yeah, we're uh, we're a commercial uh, property and uh, yeah, uh, we've had complaints from Actually, the previous owner of that building uh, was uh, really adamant but uh, uh, uh, and very angry a lot about the noise Uh, particularly later tonight because we uh, back up uh, uh, large vehicles with a backup alarm So um, yeah, so Got so the concern is the concern is uh, noise that you're making Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, got it, okay Because I don't know if the applicant is aware of that and uh, he is The last uh, butters meeting I was there and I raised the concern and meek of key I think he says he doesn't hear it but uh, I mean You can't not Okay, any other raise hands Okay, uh, does the applicant uh, want to respond to that? Just quickly um, Madam Chair, we're wearing this. This has been brought up since the beginning of the project um, okay if If this site is taken into account, it is largely uh, commercial parking lots surrounding it um, I think the sense I got from the community is that they're hoping that this type of a project will actually add a residential aspect Um, to the neighborhood that is actually in the current process of being redeveloped and I think the site would this would be a huge upgrade to the site Um, the height decision was more pushed by the community as a whole um We're not largely concerned about the noise impacting the residents As far as uh, commercial entity being concerned about parking We fit as much parking on the site as we possibly could we can't delete it in the site um, we do believe that if it's one in two bedrooms That should not bring a large number of cars. It's you know three studios are I've called us two studios um, and 11 one in two bedrooms and with the close proximity to fields corner and the bike racks We're hopeful that this is not going to be a detriment to anybody in the neighborhood All right, thank you Was that uh any other questions from the board? May I have a motion man? Is that a question? I don't Is this someone wishing to comment or There's an Andrew Andrew? No one second I just see a way of saying from Bob Okay Uh, was that man of a motion Oh, go ahead The design of me A motion to approve with BPD Designed real Uh, and can you add the housing agreement be in place prior to permits? Yeah, we can add the housing agreement being placed prior to the requirements Thank you. May I have a second? Dr Mr. Stembridge Yes, Mr. Shepard Yeah Mr. Langham Yes, as we well Yes Chair also votes yes motion carries good luck Thank you ladies and gentlemen. I'm a great man. Thank you Okay at this time the board will enter into an executive session The purpose of the executive session is to discuss with the board's council strategy and Accord remand order relative to pending litigation The pending litigation is media partners M-R-V-L-L-C And Polish-American civics club of south Boston ink Versus Boston board of repeal at our Civil action number two two eight four cv zero one four eight two The board will enter an executive session because discussing this matter with council and open session would have a detrimental Effect on the board's litigating position the board will not reconvene in open session following the conclusion of the executive session May I have a motion to enter executive session Motion to Maver second Mr. Stembridge Mr. Shepard Mr. Langham We will yes Chair also votes yes motion carries Thank you You