 Good afternoon everybody. This is the city of Boston zoning board of appeals subcommittee hearing. For September 23 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in the accordance with applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices the age of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments in support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. Number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand-raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be virtually raised. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time, and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called, or the meeting host will not know how to call you, or call on you at the appropriate time. So I'm going to take a roll call attendance to the board members, Mr. Fortune. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Good evening, Mr. Robinson. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Good evening, I think we were ready to go. Take it away, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for five o'clock hearings? Hearing none, I'll go right to the first case, calling BOA 121-5905 34 High Street. This is to construct a new two-story addition onto an existing dwelling. The addition will feature a two-level ordeal window. There will be a new deck built into the rear yard, which will cover existing parking spaces. The violation is Article 62, Section 29, OST parking is insufficient. Article 62, Section 8, the rear yard is insufficient and Article 62, Section 8, the usable open space is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning to members of the board, Ambassador and the public. My name is Anthony McGinnis. I am the attorney for the owners of the property at 34 High Street, Charlestown, Mass. Can you tell us about what's being proposed? I will. The owners are proposing a two-story addition to their property in Charlestown on High Street. Currently, they live in a two-story cottage, which is a small building on that parcel. They lived in Charlestown since about 2013. Since that time, they have grown to a family with three children. Their children attend Boston Public Schools. The idea here is to maximize the space on that property so that their children can continue to live there. They can increase their living space and continue to attend public school. As I said, the house is a small two-story cottage. It's got a very historic facade to it and the owners plan to keep everything consistent with that historical side. What they would do is add an addition to the rear of the property. So if you see on the slide that we're on there, it shows the existing. There's really nothing in the back of the property. It's just the two stories and then it goes out to a yard of patio actually and then two parking spaces currently. So they would add two-story addition, which would add bedrooms, living space, and then they would take the existing parking spaces and cover that with a deck to meet the outdoor space use. They are not increasing the height whatsoever of the property. They're keeping it at the same height and instead adding an addition to the rear. Again, they're not adding a roof deck. That was explored. They have stayed away from that. The idea here is again to preserve the character of the building in the neighborhood. At the same time, the buildings around them are typically three or four-story buildings. So this is a small house on this property. It's a unique shape to the lot and it provides some challenges. So they're not exceeding their floor area ratio. The only thing that's the issue here is the setbacks, the open space, and then the parking. So with the parking, there are two existing parking spaces there. They actually will be increased somewhat the size of those. Those are existing. New projects now, residential projects in Charlestown don't require parking. So we would not be making any change to that. This will allow them to continue to keep cars off the street and keep street parking open while taking two cars off the street. Okay. Okay. So just so unclear, the violations that are involved are the setbacks, the open space, and the parking that you're actually increasing the parking from two to three. I'm sorry. The parking spaces will stay as two parking spaces. Just the size will just increase slightly. So the violation was for a maneuverability dimension of the parking. So the parking spaces are still two spaces will remain. One other one of the sides of the spaces. The space sizes on the plan there. Let me pull that up. Well, I'm just curious as to why maneuverability is being involved. That was cited. If I could, Bob Demiko spoke on this one. So we might clarify this. So I'll put his comments into the record. His comments for 34 high streeters as follows. Both spaces are too small and do not meet BTD standards. The curb cut does not align with the parked vehicles. That's Bob Demiko from BTD. Okay. Thank you. Mr Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are good. I do have a couple of questions on this. One is for the drawings and in the proposed edition, it appears you're covering up two existing windows of the adjacent building in the in-set corner. How is that working? So by right there are allowed to extend the building to the to the butting property as far back as it goes. Those windows really shouldn't be there from that butting property. So what they're doing is by right to extend their current building to the end the back of that butting property as this is a zero lot line. Well, I'm confused why shouldn't those windows be there? Basically, those windows should never have been put in because they are, as I said, by right, the owners can extend their building to the back of that butting property. So what obviously happened is they put those windows in. They were not done with the appropriate permitting or by code but just put in there to try and I'm not sure why they're put in but the windows don't actually add anything to that property as they have windows on the backside as well. So it's really in just a narrow space there. And so the proposal by right would be to just extend it. What is the space between those windows and the addition? Zero. They're literally building over the top of two windows on the side of the building. I guess I'm not sure. I mean, I'm not arbitrating building related issues. That's not my issue. I just, are those a butters in support of this project? They've spoken to the butters. They're not in opposition and it's been explained to them. What the plans are, the plans have been given to them. And the owners will make the appropriate needed construction to bait any issues with the windows. They'll cover them up for them. They'll support them in any way needed so that there's no cost or damage to their building. So I guess, Chairman, I guess I have a little bit of a question on this in terms of maybe procedural or not. I don't know. Obviously the BPD is weighed in on this. They are against this project. That in itself is obviously a little bit concerning. And then the fact that there is this window condition with the butters and the proposed, I don't actually have a problem with the proposed addition from a sort of conceptual. I totally get it. I think it makes sense. It looks beautiful. But I think the concern associated with the butter covering the entire lot is sort of what the BPD is concerned is because they're building a deck. Then I guess I'm just wondering if this is really a subcommittee like project. I feel like this needs to go to the full board to be honest. I was just coming to the same conclusion as I was listening to you. Typically, the subcommittee handles projects that are de minimis and located. This one has a series of issues that are. It's complex. And again, I would take your agree, Mr. Robinson. What's that? I would tend to agree with you. I'll entertain a motion to defer this project to the full board. I would like to make that motion. And hopefully we can do that quickly. I don't know what the requirements are in terms of notification, but I'll leave that up to Mr. Secretary. But I would like to make a motion to defer to the full board. I'll second that motion, Mr. Robinson. Mr. Chair, we're going to fit this in on the 28th of September. So next Tuesday and it'll be at 1230. Okay, to the applicant, it would help for us to know what the aboutter thinks about having the windows covered among other things. And I do note they've had no objection to the project. Well, we all do respect. I want to hear from them and not from the proponent. Okay, so I agree. I agree. The motion passes and referred to the full board on 28th. Thank you. On your next case, calling the OA 122548777 East Broadway. This is to pay portions of a side Maria or perennial payers and create two Austria parking spaces for 777 East Broadway. With access provided by a side driveway access by an existing curb cut, the widened curb cut approximately five and a half five and a half feet and remove and modify the existing side bay of access. The violations article 68, section 31 screening and buffering, article 68, section 34.6, side job, certain narrow lots, and article 68, section 8, the side job is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Good afternoon, Chairman, Mr. Fortune and Mr. Robinson. My name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Zal Boston. My clients are the owners and residents of 777 East Broadway, Kyle and Jocelyn Gambone. Mr. Chairman, members, this is an application to provide a new residential driveway to access two Austria parking spaces in the rear of the single family dwelling home by my clients at 777 East Broadway. Two parking spaces will be located entirely in the rear yard. The area for the driveway and for the parking would be created by the application of permeable pavers. In order to provide the driveway access, there would have to be a widening of an existing curb cut on East Broadway. There is currently a curb cut there which would be widened from a width of 14.3 feet to 15.1 feet, an addition of 5.2 feet. Can you take the numbers again, Mr. Rancy? Yes. So basically, there's things. I think a committee which is what we're at, which is better. I think Mr. Rancy is doing the background and basically, I guess, PDA. So the guy that was starting here, Robinson, can you give us a speaker? Oh, sorry, yeah, I'm you, Danny. Under their eyes, but we are and they get the way in on these hearings. So he said, which surprisingly, he said, we're against this. Okay, got it. I'm sorry about that. Thank you. I apologize. Okay, Mr. Marancy, I'm sorry. Can you repeat the existing? I certainly will. And that's sort of my worst nightmare if I was speaking about the one hearing after my case was just posed. So I'm sorry. The, I guess that's I can't do it. I just, I mean, the, I'm sorry, the existing width is 14.3 feet. The additional width to increase the width of the curb cut would be 5 feet, a 5.2 feet. I'm sorry. I believe Mr. Fortune said 5.5, but it's 5.2 feet. The resulting driveway providing access would be seven and a half feet, 7.5 feet. Mr. Marancy, you are correct, Mr. Marancy, you are correct. I'm sorry. No, no, no, you, but you're correct about the resulting width of the driveway, Mr. Fortune, which would be 7.5, which is probably what you were looking at. There's an existing residential driveway to the left. I may not be an engineer, but I can add and subtract 14.3 is the current width. 5.2 is additional. Doesn't that add up to 19.5? That's going from the curb. That's the flares. The flares. Yeah, the flares. Exactly. And that's that's shown on the existing, the curb cut side plan, which is on this screen. So I was counting that includes the flares or didn't include the flares. I'm sorry. I will point out, I said I represent Kyle and Jocelyn Gambone, who are the owners of the property. Jocelyn is the registered professional engineer who actually drew the curb cut side plan. So if necessary, I would ask that the Jocelyn who's on the hearing may be under the name of Kyle. I'm not sure they may both be on the same calling. I would not make this more complicated than we know. No, no, no, I'm sorry. Yeah, I know. No, no, no. Again, so we're starting with an oversized curb cut because typically it's 10 to 12 feet. And this is 14.3. Then you're adding 5.2 to end up with a 19.5 foot curb cut. Flares are not, I don't care. Well, why does it need to be that wide and what's the width of the driveway? Well, what I was saying, Mr. O'Reilly chairman is that there's an existing residential driveway to the left, which is why there is already a curb cut. So this is an extension of the existing curb cut by 5.2 feet to accommodate a second residential driveway. There is a 7 foot residential driveway on the left that serves 7, 7, 9 East Broadway. Nothing to do with this project. That is an existing curb cut to Mr. I'm sorry, Mr. Marancy. If I could just let Mr. Chair, Bob Domingo has spoken this. I don't know if it's beneficial, maybe to defer. This one to the full board as well, but regarding, and we'll put it on to the record regarding 7, 7, 7 East Broadway, he requested denial for the fallen reasons. Both spaces are undersized. The driveway is only 7, 7.5 feet and width. A minimum should be 10 feet to allow safe access and the access and the access to the parking area and maneuverability is insufficient. Okay, I'm having trouble even understanding the- Can we go, who's running the slides? Can you go to the first page on the man investment or sorry, with the survey? I just want to, that's yes, I think that's it. Can you zoom in on that? I don't know if you can't- I just want to make sure- I'm trying to make sure I understand this too. I mean, I looked at this, but so it looks- so the dimensional characteristics I think are a little different than we're used to to be honest. Because they- the 14.3 is also including the curb, like the- whatever you call it, the granite turns. So it looks like it's more of a maybe a 10 foot existing curb cut, like as we're traditionally used to- or a 10 and a half or something. So, but it's feeding the property to the left. Is that correct? That's correct. If I could continue, and that's the point I'm trying to make that there is an existing curb cut, which provides- which was something approved. It's not consequential for determination and the outcome of this appeal, but there's an existing seven foot residential driveway, which was approved for the property at 770-90s, probably approved by this board three or four years ago. That residential driveway exists. The curb cut that is there exists. In order to- We have to- We have to- We have approved the driver at 7.5 feet wide. I- I- of 7 feet wide, Mr. Raleigh- Mr. Chairman. Yeah, if you- if you zoom in a little bit more, you'll see the dimensions on here. And I guess I was trying to understand too- for the- the road piece, I guess, from once you go on to the- through the sidewalk. Are- is that actually a shared space in there? Mr. Maranson, in terms of- I know they're traversing a property line, but is- is that how they're seeing this? So there's a- there's a- there's a single curb cut that would be widened by 5.25 feet. That single curb cut that's currently existing without the widening to 5.25 feet currently provides access to the 7th foot residential driveway at 7.79 East Broadway. With the- increase widening of that by 5.2 feet, my clients would have a 7.5 foot wide residential driveway providing access to the two parking spaces in the rear, which are admittedly, you know, not both- well, actually, I- I think they could be 8.5 by 20. There- there's a- there's a lot of space there, but these aren't required off-street parking spaces. I think, uh, if- again, I can't control what the board is looking at, but there is a perpendicular space, which is approximately 20 feet in length by 8.5 feet wide, and then there is a- I'm sorry, parallel- parallel space and a perpendicular space, which is somewhat smaller. The violations here- there we go, there we go. Okay, well- slow down. Okay, the- the spaces are- well, sorry to tell where are the- on this drawing- are the spaces right at the end of the driveway there? Next to- yes. So the indication there is two, you know, two parking spaces. One is parallel to the driveway. There's a- there's a dimension there of 18 feet in length, so it's shorter than that. There's a- a perpendicular space, uh, which is indicated below that as- as the board views the plans. Yeah, okay. We can- we get it now. So you've got- so I- it's hard for me to imagine that we approved a seven and a half foot- or seven foot driveway. I mean, we never approved driveways that are small and ten feet, and now you're asking for another one that's also, uh, undersized, uh, a budding one that's currently undersized. I mean, how do you even get a sizable car through a seven foot driveway? So- well, we can speak to that. I have to point out- Mr. Oathe- that there's no zoning violation, and- and I realize that Mr. Viko has, uh, uh, has- has offered his input on this. The only violations here are for the width of the driveway, which- which- not for the width of the parking spaces or the size of the parking spaces, the width of the driveway, which is, uh, as the chair says undersized at seven and a half feet, which is a half foot wider than the driveway, which was approved on the left, which I realize has no bearing on this. Yeah, um, I- that one- that baffles me, um, this one, I have to say, Mr. Robinson, uh, what do you think of these plans? So, I mean, I- I think they're not ideal, but I think based on the condition, I mean, I guess my question a little bit was, what is this an owner occupied building? It is, and uh, Mr. Robinson, uh, is it a single? Yeah, it's a single family, and it- it might benefit us all, uh, if Jocelyn, uh, Gambon Ward to be unmuted and allowed to speak, uh, aside from being the property owner, um, she is the professional engineer, uh, in- in the author of the, uh, the site plan that we're viewing. So, if that could be accomplished, uh, I think it might be helpful. I mean, I- I'll- I'll be honest, I don't- I- I think it's fine. I mean, I'm okay with it. I- I've reviewed it. I- I understand it's not traditional, but I think to me, based on the condition, I mean, I don't know. I- I- I- I- I don't have a problem with it. And I- I think it's a minimal adjustment to one side of the curb cut to accommodate two off-street parking. I mean, it's- it's not perfect, but, you know, I think I don't necessarily have an issue with it in terms of, um, I mean, I think we can- I can certainly weigh in on it. I mean, but I don't need to hear the proponent. I understand the issue. I mean, I- I would actually would like to hear the prop, because a seven foot driveway is not something- I- Mr. Rancy says we approved it before on the- the abutting building. I- I don't recall a mind-sire tenure on the support cover approving a driveway that undersized. So I would- I mean, there's some- some cars that simply wouldn't fit. Sure. So I- you know, I- I'm- I'm willing to hear- if the proponent is an engineer, I'm willing to hear what she has to say. Hi, everyone. Good evening. It's Jocelyn Gimbone. I am the homeowner. I can't speak to the property next door in the approval process there. But at seven and a half feet, they're in this compact parking spaces that are eight feet wide, which will allow, you know, doors to open and people to get out. So at seven and a half feet to traverse down the driveway, without opening up a door would be more than sufficient in my opinion. And we do have room to maneuver two cars back there. I think one thing that's important to point out in Apologies George, if you already did, is that the- the widening of the curb cut does not result in any loss of on-street parking. So we're just widening that curb cut a little bit, and then we can get two cars off the street with no loss of on-street parking. So it really is a benefit to- What's the possibility of- I mean, I can't quite tell from these drawings. What's the possibility of having a curb cut split the difference between the two driveways and- and be smaller and allow access to each- each driveway on the street? That would require, I guess, modifications to our- a butter configuration. I don't know what the process is for that. If we could adjust the curb cut and center it, I personally have no issue with that. But again, I don't- don't know what the process would be for the neighbor. So we were just checking to minimize any work, you know, that would affect their driveway, obviously, and just impact our side of the property line. What's what's between like on the property line sort of as in the drive area between like between your properties? Like I- I can't really see and I can't tell. So there- there would be roughly six inches of grass. Grass. Okay. So we'd be- we would pay- we would put permeable papers right up to the property line. The width of the actual pavement on the a butter's driveway, you know, it does vary in width, but they left roughly six inches from the property line to the edge of their pavement. Just in my understanding is in case they ever wanted to put a fence is what we've been told. I mean, Mr. Arleck, I like your thought. I don't know if it's feasible. If, you know, just rework the curb so both could use it and go from there. I mean, if there's a concern about the oversized curb cut, what- do you have a dimension of the actual clear throat width? Because that's kind of, I think, a little bit more traditionally how we think about that. And it's not dimension on these drawings. I don't know exactly. Yeah, unfortunately, I don't know it offhand. It would roughly be, usually, those are two foot curb stones though, so you just subtract four feet. So you might be at a 11 feet clear open between- existing, yes, yeah, roughly. Yeah, okay. If it's two foot curb stones on each side, you're actually a 10- 10 point three feet. Sorry, and then- and then I'm sorry, sorry, I meant the- for the full throat. Okay, so 15, I got you. I'm sorry, I see that now. Okay. All right, well, how about this? How about we- we annotate a motion that would allow for approval, but BTD review and with a goal of creating a single curb cut that not exceed the city standard of 10 feet wide. I'm fine with that. I can make that motion. Okay, please go ahead. Okay, well, we haven't had testimony, Mr. Arale. Okay, true, true enough. Thank you, thank you for that. Is there anybody here who would like to speak on behalf of the proponent? Hi, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Hailey Dillon Mayors Office Neighborhood Services. Mayors Office would like to go and record in support of this proposal. Like we stated before, our main- we want to recognize that we did get letters of opposition, but the opposition was just based on losing an off-street- I mean, an on-street parking space, and as it was stated multiple times, no off-street parking is going to be lost. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Fling's Office, the Councillor provided an opposition letter to the board this week to the zoning release of these applicants regarding this curve class. He had her concerns from neighbors that this proposal will take away parking. In the area where parking is limited, we received a position from some of our boarders, neighbors, and the city point neighborhood association who are concerned about these proposed curve and extension. Thank you. Thank you. I do have a few raised hands. Mr. Chairman, before you go, we do have letters of support. We also have letters of opposition, and the Mayors Office had spoken regards to the opposition letters. That's what we have. Thank you. Okay, and I'll start with Eileen Smith. Can you hear us? Second. All right. Let me just see if that's the same caller, too. Is that you, 617269? Is that you, Eileen? Oh, no. This is Diane Smith. Okay. Go ahead, Miss Smith. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? Sure. Diane Smith, 776 East Broadway. Okay. Go ahead. And my issue may have been addressed, but I'm not sure, because one of the gentlemen recommended a single curb cut, not more than 10 feet wide. So does that mean the total driveway would be 10 feet wide? Because when I went over to measure myself, the entire driveway, including the flashes, was 172 inches, which is 14.33 feet. And if you take out the flashes, that's 10 feet. So are you saying that you're recommending 10 feet? So we're here given testimony at this point, but we'll, you may be able to see that. Okay. Well, let me just add one comment then. I had added if you added three and a half feet, that would make the driveway 214 inches wide, which would be 17.8 feet. I guess I was wondering, you know, I think the 5.2 inches might be a little too much. Okay. Thank you. We will, when we get to our deliberations, we will take that into account, but yes, those are the concerns that we were raising as well. Okay. Anybody else? Yep. Louango, had you been unmuted? Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Good afternoon, Mr. Eric and board. Louano Connor, 6th Shepton Harris, South Boston, chair, City Point, Neighborhood Association. So the City Point Neighborhood Association voted to oppose the original proposal for this curb cut a while back. I can't remember the year that it was before subcommittee. And the concerns are in fact the length of that curb cut. So I noticed that BTD weighed in. And I'm wondering, is it possible to have a city official from BTD or perhaps somebody from the board come out and look at these measurements? Because many of us have actually tried to measure and we're just not coming up with the same thing that the proponents are. So with the five feet, that would bring that curb cut beyond where their house comes out. So if you bring that house straight out, that curb cut appears to be going beyond that line as well. So there are a lot of questions, I guess, that we still need information on. And I would like to see if that would be a possibility. And the other thing that I just wanted to say was that I like the idea if 7779 and 7777 could work together to make one curb cut to access both properties. Yeah, okay. Again, the only problem is that we can't impose anything on the abouting the agro. But thank you for your testimony. Anybody else? No, sir, that's stand up. Thank you. No further raise hands here. All right. I mean, I think we are Mr. Robinson. I think we are where we were before. And I think the entertaining emotion to try to keep the curb cut to the standard size and involve BTP review, I think would be useful. Yeah, I think that's a fair kind of conclusion. I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso, the proponent will work with BTP in a resolution of the curb cut that meets city standards for this sort of residential size. And I think I would second that motion. And I am too in support. So the motion passes for those provisos. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, members. Good night. Thank you. Next case calling the LA 119 019 5 683 E 7th Street. This is a change of oxygen from a two family at 683 E 7th and convert basement of a single family residence to a second unit. The violation of that equal 68 section 33, Austrian parking and loading requirement. Article 68 section 7.2 basement units are forbidden. Article 68 section 8, the 4-day ratio is excessive. Article 68 section 8, use of open spaces and sufficient. Article 68 section 8, side yards and sufficient. Article 68 section 8, the ray yards and sufficient. Article 68 section 8, the additional lot of areas and sufficient. And Article 68 section 8.3, the dimensional regulations are the location of the main entrance. Name and address for the record please. Good evening, members of the board. My name is attorney, Alexis Kichok. I'm located at one state, street, fast and mass. Can you tell us what the proposal is, please? Do I? This is a fairly modest proposal. It would take an unfinished basement of a single family and convert it into a functional unit. Historically, this house was a multi-family property. It originally started out as a three family. For many years, it was a two family. And approximately 10 years ago, the owner converted it into a single family. The owner now desires to make it back into two functional units. It is surrounded by multi-family houses on both sides and both sides of the street. And many of the basements on that street are also functional units. Okay. As typically with this board, we don't necessarily have a problem expanding going from a single to a two, but our issue about making a basement's level space depends on the relationship between the floor and the grade and whether these are largely underground or not. So could you please give us the dimensions of floor to grade? And is there a change in the topography of the lot? Is it higher at one point lower than another? So just walk us through that. I don't believe there is a change in the topography of the lot. It is a brick home where they will be renovating the existing basement. There will be sprinklers inserted in the construction, and there will be rare egress, which is now currently a bulkhead on the property. And how do you get? Okay. But you didn't answer my question. What is the height of the grade of the floor to the grade? Outside grade. If you could hold on one moment, I'm hoping somebody from our development team can answer to that. And what is the floor to ceiling height in this basement? I also did not know what was with the trauma construction. So I'm on the builder who has who had filed the original building permit. We worked through that appeals process with ISD, which granted us the sprinkler for the in exchange for the one means of egress. I would have to look at these plans. I don't know offhand, but these plans should detail what that height is according to the grade. And how many forms of egress are there? One. One. One. One. Mr. Robinson. Again, this is one I'm not sure we should be weighing in on to be honest, because I think it's again, it's not as simple as I think the proponent is sort of advocating understanding the concept it is. But I also see I believe a lot of problems with what's actually being proposed from a it is a studio unit and there's gas utility closets, water heater closets that are opening directly into the unit, which is not allowed in a multi-family. Those have to be segregated out of the living space. So I think there's a whole bunch of issues here to be honest that are not even just zoning related. So I would probably recommend defer to the full board. And I also think there's no dimensional characteristics of how the questions you're asking in terms of how high to the grade. And so I think we need to to punt this, I think, unfortunately. Mr. Robinson, I'm not sure if deferral to the board is appropriate. If there are many problems, maybe it makes more sense to deny without prejudice and then I'll come back with more answers. That's fair. I mean, I'm I'm I'm leaning in that direction, but I hate that people get to this point and we do that. But I think that's probably the right move on this one. Just because I think there's enough unquestionable sort of conditions that they're going to get flagged later in in building code review or something that I don't think won't be acceptable. So I think we should I'm happy to make that motion. We need to take testimony first. So is there anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Hi, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Haley, Haley Delany, Ozoff's Neighbor Services, like to come back and support of this proposal. I'm sure the applicant can speak more, but this is a different situation where the families are living together. They just need their own separate space. So I think what you guys talked about with the things having to be separated from a different unit. Again, I don't know all of that, but that it would be a little bit different because they're the same family living under the same place. They just need the same busy different spaces. So without no about us or opposed, but would like to come back and support. Thank you. Just a comment on that. You know, when we make these decisions, we make them further property and not the particular situation of who happens to be living there at the given moment because they may not be there in any year. So we need to think about how the property is going to be used in the future. So anybody any other testimony? Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Anna Calerong from Councillor Flinx office. The Councillor would like to thank you for the long record and support. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, we have two here. I'll go ahead. Mr. Chairman, John Walsh, I am a resident of the property and part of the family applying for the for the variances. I just wanted to quickly speak to the comments surrounding the the meters and the utility boxes that are currently shown in the plan. There have already been some discussions with the design team surrounding consolidating some of those utility boxes together in the common area space that is found in the design at the bottom of the stairs that come from the upstairs unit. So I apologize, I did not certainly realize that that would come up as an issue here today, but that is something that we're already pursuing in terms of a intended design change to move those utilities to the property. So here's the problem. We technically access by both by both units. I would speak to that piece particularly. I could certainly elaborate and further on the report overall, but I'll leave it at that for now. Okay, we only can approve what's in front of us. So it may be extremely well-intentioned, then you may have already thought about these issues. But the drawings that we have, the project that is in front of us does not include those elements. So if that's the case that we have a number administrative options to push the project back so you can come in with a set of plans that shows all the elevations and answers to questions I asked about height and grade and also deals with the issues that Mr. Robinson raised about isolating the utilities from a living space. But that's not what we don't have those answers now and we can't act without them. So is there anybody else who wants to testify? I have on Mr. Chad do have one raised hand. Eileen you've been unmuted. Can you stage your name and address for the record please? Maybe having connectivity issues. Eileen we can't hear you. Can you hear us? If you want to put your comments in the chat you can do that as well. Okay I think we know where we are. Can I have a motion please? I actually I think I'd like to make a motion to defer. I think there's merit here. I'm not sort of judging on that. I think we just need a little bit more information to make the decision. So I'd make a motion to defer to give the proponent some time to clean up the drawings. Make sure we have the information that we talked about in terms of understanding the grade the height to grade the windows to grade and then be willing to listen to it at a further date. I would tend to agree with you Mr. Robinson and we'll try to get an October date here. I'm trying to figure out what date is right now. Great. And I would agree as well. I'm not sure that I would say the proposal has merit because I don't know. I don't know because we don't have enough information. So but I think all three of us are agreed on the appropriateness of the deferral. So that's that's the motion that passes. It would be October 19th at 1230. Okay thank you. Actually can I second you miss it so I think and I'm not not judging here but they will need to resubmit plans to ISD which will need two weeks probably for review. I think the date should be further out but I don't want I want to make sure we have enough time for ISD to review if they're going to update their plans. I'll put a comment on this one. Tom can speak on that. Yeah Mr. Robinson this Tom yeah depends on maybe the applicant thinks they can get their plans in like next week if it's possible I don't know how long they can plan. Okay so we'll stick with that date. All right next case please. Thank you. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling BLA-108-714-215-15-naughting ham street. This is to extend living space in the basement at two bedroom and bathroom. The violation of the Article 65, Section 9, the fluidity ratio is excessive. I'm going to address for the right. Please. It is nodding ham on. Mr. Gomes. I didn't check it earlier so I'm not. Okay we'll come back to it. Thank you. The next case. Calling BLA-120-6766-99 Woodrow Avenue. This to confirm occupancy is an existing single family extending this dormant to the right side of the home by five foot eight and adding a lolly column in the basement. The violation of Article 66, Section 9, Side Guads and sufficient. I'm going to address for the record please. Melissa King 99 Woodrow the doorchester master 02124. Please tell us about your proposal. Okay so we propose to change the two side refrafters on the existing dormant on the right side of the home. The existing roof was rotten so we want to take the opportunity to adjust the roof for actors from six feet to eight feet to make the height suitable for a shower. We will not change the ridge beam of the existing dormant meaning we will not change the height of the existing dormant and we also will not be changing the width of the existing dormant. I also wanted to note that we have a better support and support of the Woodrow Avenue neighborhood association. Okay thank you and what is the purpose of the additional lolly column in the basement? So I have the contractor here with me and he can speak to that. Hi my name is Lenroy Conanam, contractor. So the Lala Comma was still strengthening the structure in the basement because it was actually wood beam in there so we changed it out to make it lolly column so we upgrade it. Okay how are the drawings Mr. Robinson? Plans are good it's a minimum there's I have no issues with this thank you. Okay is there anybody here to speak and behalf of the proponent? Yes good evening Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Dante P. Wilson-Yeltson neighborhood services. I don't really like to go on record and support this proposal. There was an butters meeting held on July 14th by the office neighborhood services where neighbors and butters had their questions answered adequately and no major concerns raised. Then the applicant went before the Woodrow Avenue neighborhood association on July 15th where support was shown for the proposal. Again the mayors also like to go on record and support of this proposal as the applicants have been have received many names of butters and neighbors and support on support positions as well as a letter of support from the Woodrow Avenue neighborhood association. Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah Mr. Chair we do have five signatures five signature pages and support. Madam Ambassador anybody else? No sir I have no raise hands at the moment thank you. Can I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I have two amendments supports and the motion passes. Following the next case calling BOA122 87019 bleak street. This is a constructed third-story bedroom addition the violations article 69 section 23. This is the neighborhood design radical 69 section nine the bill has accepted excessive in stories and I feel 69 section nine the side yard is insufficient. Damon address for the record please. Matt Murphy 23. I'm in Stale Road West Roxbury. Tell us about your project. Okay I'm the builder here representing Ramona Silva and her son that live in a side-by-side two-family were proposing a third floor addition to add an identical bedroom on each side. Through the use of a dormer? Yeah front and back shared dormant. Well it's it's the gable doesn't go the the addition it's not going to be all the way a side-by-side so I can see that from the elevation there two foot step back on each side. Okay how many square feet are you adding? 10 10 80 It's about 510 feet on each on each side if include the stairwell and I'm in gross. Okay how are the drawings Mr. Robinson? Drines are good and I think it's it's consistent with the neighborhood around I don't have any issues with this and our questions. Okay is there anybody here to speak in behalf of the proponent? Hi good evening Mr. Chair members of the board Daniel Fonseca with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Our office would like to go on record and support of this proposal. The applicants notified all the butters and a community meeting was held by our office on Monday July 19th where no concerns were raised by community members. The applicant has been a long time resident of Boston and this neighborhood and also has a good relationship with their neighbors and community leaders in the area. The applicants have also mentioned that they're looking to just add room for their family so our office is not believe that this will negatively impact the community and look forward to seeing it move forward. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Chair I have no raise hands at the moment. Okay can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. You think it needs to sign a view Mr. Robinson? I don't think so. I think it's pretty straightforward and it's pretty consistent with the neighborhood. I'm okay with it. Okay and I too am in support of the motion. This property is an AMOLED district so this will be going to the BPD anyway. Okay there you go. Thank you. Okay so all right motion passes with the design review. Okay. Calling the next case calling B O A 1 2 1 3 0 6 8 18 Prescott Street. This to confirm a single family dwelling change dog from a single to a two family dwelling and legalize a two family dwelling and extension of living space into the attic. The violation of the Article 69 Section 29 Austrian parking is insufficient. Article 69 Section 8 to family dwelling uses forbidden. Article 69 Section 9 the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 69 Section 9 the bill in the head is excessive in stories. And Article 69 Section 9 usable open spaces insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Hi this person did not sign a check in as well earlier. Okay we'll come back to it. Okay. So the next case calling B O A 1 1 8 0 8 5 0 3 0 2 Lamatine Street. This is to demolish the existing front and rear decks and construct new front and rear porches. Replace the exacting slate and mansard roof with new slate. Violations out of the 55 Section 9 side yard setback is insufficient. Article 55 Section 9 really yet is insufficient. Article 55 Section 41 the front model alignment with an existing block. Name an address for the record please. Looks like I can get my voice workout today. Yeah hi you hear me? We do yes. Okay this is Beth Worel on the architect 164 Arborway to make a plane. This is a single family actually. Oh go that's okay. I was just going to suggest that you show the photographs first if you have them. It's kind of a a little more explanatory. So just up there a second. So it's a single family it's an existing pork chop lot and the house is crowded almost all the way up to the rear property line which you can see if you go when you go we go to the site plan. If I just wanted to walk you through these. So this was basically the project that's proposed is to remove an existing deck which you can see in that photograph of the front elevation. Literally a deck not a porch on the front of the building and to replace it with an actual roofed porch more consistent with Jamaica plane architecture. The rear also has a deck jammed in. I'm quite sure these were not built with a permit. And the proposal back there is to demolish the deck and just have a very small stoop and stairs down from the back door to an on-grade terrace. So it would actually improve the privacy of the neighbors because right now you know they're raised up three feet and look right over the fence on two sides into their a butters yards. So the front is the footprint of the new proposed roofed porch the same as the existing deck. It is slightly larger if you want to look at the go to the the plans at this point. Two feet. Two feet larger. It's going from 10 to 12. It's it's pretty much the same with this the deck but it's slightly wider because it's bringing it out to the edges of the house. And the rear you're taking something that's currently fairly large and placing something smaller. Yes. How much is this? What's the difference? In so you look at dimensions. Well if you look at a one you can see the existing deck is a seven foot eight out into the house. I'm sorry that doesn't have a by 12 feet. You can see it's filling up that whole space. And the proposed stoop is just three and a half by four and a half feet. Okay. It's just fitting it you know literally that you can step out on and walk down to the. Okay. Okay. Nargada. So what are the violations here? The side yard? There's a yard inside yard. The front modal alignment I think is really irrelevant because it's a it's a it's a pork chop lot the house is in the middle of the block. There is no alignment. Okay. All right. Mr. Robinson how are the drawings? Drinks are fine. There's no no questions. This is pretty simple and straightforward. Yep. All right. Is anyone here to testify in behalf of the component? Yes. Mr. Chair members of the board. Connor Newman with the Mayors Office and Neighborhood Services like going record and support this proposal. The applicant went before the Jamaican Plain Neighborhood Council zoning committee on July 7th where they were felt where they received their support for the proposal. Through the butters process conducted by the previous liaison. Lindsey Santana. No concerns were raised in the mayor's office. It's not believe this will negatively impact the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. I miss the chair. I have no raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve. About second motion. And I too long in support of the motion passes. Good luck. Thanks. Calling your next case. Calling the OA 1203875 73 Pershing Road. This is to extend living space to the basement for unit one. Finishing 632 square feet of unfinished space. We increase the livable area for unit one. Project scope to include new access to unit one. Children's playroom, game room, full bath and kitchenette. The violation. 5569 excessive FAR. I'm sorry. FAR is excessive. Damon Adjus for the record please. Hi, my name is Megal Brian. I'm an architect on the project representing Bob and Jane Cohen. 73 Pershing Street. As you stated, it is an owner of occupied unit. They're just looking for some additional square footage for care that they're providing to their two grandkids. So the goal of this project is to just get them kind of their own space. It's 632 square feet of finished basement space. The ceiling height is seven four and I did just check to see. Floor to grade were at about five feet. The existing FAR is 0.75 and with this finished basement area, we'll go up to 0.667. So we're just about 0.07 over FAR. I'm sorry. I didn't hear what it could say at the floor to ceiling height was. Floor to ceiling were at 7.4. 7.4 and this is a this is a single family, right? It's a two family but this would be for unit one which is owner occupied. Okay, my understanding in the two family that you the minimum floor to ceiling height is 7.6. That might be my misunderstanding. Well, so how do you correct that up understanding? I suppose we would need to just verify the floor to ceiling height. I believe that for a single family it's 7.4 and for a two or three it's 7.6. I'm dropping by I should probably know to Mr. Orog but I'm getting my things confused but let me hang on let me let me double check that's I thought it was at 7. There's no Well, Mr. Orogs checking that. No, no, no, I'm I take it back. I'm wrong. 1 and 2 7 and 1 and 2 and then 7.6. You're also what is the what is the egress from this basement expanded space? So the egress is that there are two existing egresses that would be remain intact. Can we see them on so let me let me tell you what we are concerned about. Sure. We're concerned about is the key you're putting a kitchen at in there and the concern is that at some point if there's a kitchen at there and the two means of egress that it would become a separate unit in and of itself either to be rented or if it's own sold or whatever and so we have been historically reluctant to include our kitchens in these in this type of extended living space. Okay, so for even in a very small scope the idea behind the kitchen at itself is that Bob and Jane would be providing care to their grandkids in the basement level and that they wouldn't want to be going up and down the stairs all day so this is just a really small it's tucked into that bay window so it would just be like an under counter fridge a very small sink and like a small counter space so I don't think it could pass as like a there's no stucky right it's just or it looks like a simple web or a more of a web web and that that addresses my concern. All right, how do the drawings just drop in some drawings are good no questions on it and I think it's just that looks like an expansion of a single family to the for looks pretty straightforward. I don't have any issues with it. Okay, is anyone here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the Board of Conor Newman with the Nairs Office of Neighborhood Services like on Recrease Support and Proposal. The Nairs Office of this time is unaware of any concerns from a butters regarding this modest proposal. There might be so opposition they did not have a chance to meet with the local Neighborhood Civic Association. We feel this is a small proposal that will not negatively impact the neighborhood. Thank you. Anybody else? The chair I have no raised hands. Okay, I just note for the record that the BPA recommends an island without prejudice but our line of attention motion. I noticed that as well but I think based on the location I feel like this is sort of an expansion of the living space so I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. And I will agree so the motion passes the line. Thank you. Following an ex-case calling VOA 1213674 26 Birts and Avenue to circumference occupancy as a single family addition the second story and a red deck of an existing single story home. Proposed Housework three bedrooms two full baths a half bath floor open kitchen dining living room and access to the basement. The lot is a non-conforming 4,000 6.8 square feet and the lot size and zoning is 6,000 square feet. The violation of article nine section one and the reconstruction extension of a non-conforming non-conforming building and article 56 section eight the Flood Air Ratio was excessive. May I add just for the record please? Shane O'Neill 26th person now. Can you tell us what you're proposing? So I am the owner occupant. I am proposing a second story addition to my current bungalow. It would open up the first floor plan allow for a open kitchen and then the second story the bedrooms the two on the first floor would move up to the second story. And then a porch in the front as well as a deck in the back. Okay. And this is a single family? It's a single family yes. Okay and how does this compare with the height compare with other homes in the neighborhood? It's in line with the other neighborhood most are two story homes. This is probably the smallest house on the street and it would still stay under. It wouldn't the direct neighbor would still have the same roof height. All the drawings Mr Robinson drawings are good and I concur I think that you know there's a mix but most of them are mainly two's and I have no questions. This is looks pretty straight forward to me. Thank you. Okay. Is there anybody here to speak on behalf of the proponent? Mr. Chia Secretary and we do have letters of support. And I know the other I live in West York. I know the area very well Mr Robinson's right. And no letters no opposition. We do have someone who's interested in speaking. I should just let you know. Okay. Is there any message in the chat? One second Peggy go ahead you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address please for the record? Hi I'm Peggy Hupar. I live at 21 birds in Avenue almost directly across from the property we're discussing. Hi Shane. I just wanted to clarify a couple of things. One is when we had our neighborhood meeting in June. The question came up about the deck that's been proposed and I believe it was you and your architect who confirmed verbally that there will not be a deck because it would be too costly. But in any case no no there's no deck. Also brought up at that neighborhood meeting was the the fact that there is no driveway showing on the plans we've seen which go back well over a year. And we've been told again at that neighborhood meeting told that there will be a driveway. I heard earlier this evening when you were discussing the Ward 7 House on the 7th converting the basement to habitable. One of the leaders of this meeting I'm sorry I don't recognize voices said something to the effect of we can only rule on what we have in front of us. I think that what's in front of us is a set of plans that do not carefully accurately match what the proponents what the owner and his team are hoping to do. And I would like to see a better set up to date plans clarifying the deck because we were told in June no deck now he's changed just said oh yes we're going to have a deck and the driveway and parking have not been addressed at all. Okay thank you for your testimony Mr. Robinson can you speak to this? So there are decks shown on the drawings front and rear so I'm not sure who the the butter is if they're speaking about the front deck or the rear. And the side plan is sort of I would agree silent on the parking which shows it looks like a existing single curb cut in you know one space existing I assume that was just remaining as is but the proponent can clarify that. Okay can we hear a thrown up proponent? Yep there is an existing driveway and nothing about that driveway is changing and the rear deck I think it was on the plans that we showed the first time and we had that up for discussion because we were still looking at costs and so the cost were comparable when we changed some options around for the deck so we moved to a deck instead of a patio. Is there a front deck? Yep and that should be on the drawing. That is on the drawings. It's more of a I would say it's more of an entry sequence that are on deck but it's giving him access to the elevated first in the first round. In any case however we make a decision we're making it on plans that reflect what is actually being proposed correct. Correct. Okay that's my opinion I would agree with that. Well that's why you're there Mr. Roads and thank you. Can I have a motion please? So I'll make a motion to approve with BPA design review. I will second that motion. All right and I'll support it as well as motion passes. Following the next case calling BOA1234261 34 Moory Road. This is to remove the existing masonry stairs and replace with a wood frame porch and stairs to violate the tactical 56th section 8 dimensional regulations. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Mellow on. Did not check in either. Oh. It's a crazy day. It's a crazy day. It's a crazy day. Yeah. It's a crazy day. Yeah. Oh Lauren what is the homeowner? One second. Okay. All right. Okay you've been unmuted. Can you hear us? Hi thank you. Yes I'm the homeowner and I just asking permission to replace existing brick steps with patty. I'm sorry I would would porch. Is the proposed wood porch larger than the existing makes three steps are the same size? Yes no it would it would go out the same width and it go the length of the house. And and that's the current situation as well. No it is just steps that are. Okay so it's big. So it's a third size. So is that why the the setback issue is involved? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I assume that it is incurred. I mean it's it's kind of a a trying-related lot as well so there it's on and you know on a corner so it's encroaching it's a it's a very odd shaped lot in terms of sort of its current state. But it's the addition is of the front deck is not pushing closer to Mori Road but actually toward the other road which has more space on it. Okay is is there anybody here to speak on behalf of the component? Good evening Mr. Chair. Members of the board Jack Doug and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services just like to go on record and support. The African did complete full community process and went before the West Rocksman Neighborhood Council received their full support and in addition I'll receive two support letters from Director Butters. Thank you. Okay. Okay Mr. Chair we have those two support letters as well. And Mr. Chair I have no raised hands. Okay. Okay. I have a motion please. I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. And I am in agreement with a motion passes. Great. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair we've got to go back to two two cases I called earlier. I would take it 15 nodding ham street is not on. I will make a motion. I'll call it into the record calling B O A 108 7142 15 nodding ham street. It's now 613 to make a motion for denial without prejudice. I'll second. And I too. I'm going to say it's not the motion passes. And then calling case B O A 1213 06 18 press cost street is press cost street on. So now 613 I'll make a motion for denial without prejudice. I'll second. And I too will in favor motion passes and that brings us here to a close. The hearing is adjourned. Thank you. Good night. Good night everybody.