 you you you you I request for. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Yes, Mr. Secretary. 3-915 Washington Street, please. No, 5-1. First case. And that will be case, be away. 1-514378. Would you please explain to the board? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, and Maranque Business Address of 168H Street, First floor, South Boston. Given that the board is down to only five members, we'd like to request administrative deferral on this matter, please. Thank you. How many are there? Madam Chair, February 6th will be the next day. Okay, Mr. Spitz. Yes, that would be great, please. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? Motion to extend. It failed already, 6-2024. May I have a second? Sturk. Mr. Stumpridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. As we walk. Yes. Ms. Logan? Yes. Chair also, notes, yes, motion carries. Great, thank you. Any further request for the withdrawal of the withdrawals from the Conquer? Hearing none, we will move on then to Chase B.O.A. 1.493506, with the address of 6th, Greenal Avenue, is the alphabet and the order of Representative President to explain to the board. Okay, we're on the Russell. I see your hand is raised. Are you ready to get the seat of the conzo? I'm ready. Yes. Yes. Go ahead. So, here we have Katie, you know, the order of 6th, Great. Can you please speak up? We can have a meeting. I'm sorry, is this better? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, I'm here. We have Katie, you know, the order of 6th, Greenal Avenue. This genome is proposing, before the board today, is to allow for a perfect install of the right-hand side of the company to allow for a private install that will accommodate two Wall Street cotton spaces to our public. We have one for that in the public space, as well as the meeting before the I've caught name for association, at which time the I've caught name for association, but unanimously to recommend a prohold. We've also submitted to the board for the consideration and number of the board. I'm sorry, Mr. Russell. You just said high-park association. This is in JP. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you. Okay. We have one for them. We did get the NMS group. We also have one for the consideration and number of the neighbors and the fighters who also lend support letters of support for the board. Consideration will ask for favorable consideration. Act that is high. So can you clarify at this time, are there, are there on street parking spaces there? Or is that, yes, correct? There are on street parking spaces there. One is performed, would be to allow for the current path, which is as described on the survey plan provided to be 14 pointed with. And by the way, there will be a procomic two off street cotton spaces. So there will be a net gain of on street cotton as a result of this because of porcelain, it's a top and one other one would be a whole problem street itself. Okay. Are there questions from the board hearing none? May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're cornering them with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. There's time the Mayor's Office, I'd defer to the judgment of this board. Due to personal changes, I can't speak to specific details regarding the butter's meeting, but I know that they had favorable interactions with the local civic association as they mentioned, they met with the JPMC and received their support for this proposal. Without referring to the board this time, thank you. Thank you. Christine? Hi. I went just up the street from Katie. I'm Greenow Park and I've known her since before she was born because she's the fourth or fifth generation to own that house. I'd like to see her get that parking space. I think the council said two parking spaces, but whatever. There have been a lot of parking per cuts in this neighborhood because parking on the street is becoming a problem. So I'd really like to see her get that every neighbor I've talked to have been in this neighborhood. I'm going to give testimony here. Okay. And then caller 617947. If you press start three, that will unmute you. If you're looking to give testimony here for this proposal. Hello? Yes, hi. Go ahead. Hi. Hi, thank you. My name is Carla Gracie. I'm a neighbor also on Greenow Park and feel very similar to Christina Chul, which I'd love to see Catherine being a debtor's parking. It would alleviate guest parking for us as well in Greenow. But it's also a safety issue for her. She's a lovely mercenac. I just feel like it makes a lot of sense for the integrity of the building. It looks very organic and natural there. I feel real estate in area. I just think it would be a good thing for her. And I hope that I hope the board will look good. Okay. Let me see. I'll go back to the WCAFE. Trying to unmute you. Okay. You're a mute. Can you hear us? Yes. Okay. Go ahead. Can you stay your name and address and tell us if you're in support of opposition? My name is Dewey Guarn. I'm the owner of the BWCAFE. Based on 23 and faster stream. Turn it down. I'm sorry. We're not hearing that case yet, sir. We're on a six-screen or well. Yours is the last case on this agenda. I'm going to make you a panelist. So let me just get to the next. Sam, you looking to give testimony for this proposal? Yeah, yeah. Can you hear me? Go ahead. Yes. Yeah, yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. How are you doing? So obviously I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a planner, but I am. And I had discussed with the three voting properties directly about in properties. I'm not focused throughout the road. We have an hour. Our initial concern was that this was. And then you had documentation that states that it's for one parking space. I understand that's been amended to two. We did the ground straight as a very busy street with the water street parking. You also have residential and retail amenities that need to be serviced. The code card is proposed for 14 feet, which is about the space of the car in a heart. So you really know there's no net gain here side to the about it. That's sorry, that's the applicant. And if it's for one car, then it's out of conformance. There's a lot of other reasons that it's out of conformance. As you know, six out of 55, section nine. It's, you know, it's taken away green space in a very tight water. But more concern to me is that there's not the right amount of space between where the drive we will be put and our second poor dormitants. It's the needs to be at least five feet of space. And there isn't going to be that. And that don't happen to be a bedroom. And to have cars entering that space at night on. That less than the five feet required is just not appropriate when it's a child bedroom. So we're, I'm firmly opposed as either to immediate about in neighbors. Mr. Flood, can you just confirm, are you the director of the water to the right? No, you know, correct. So we just, we know who we're talking. Thank you. Yeah. No, I'm sorry to clarify that. I'm not used to these proceedings. No worries, sir. Any other words? Just look at the, okay. Go ahead. Okay. We're all set. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. I'm just giving them. I'm sorry. When you still. Happy I was on you didn't know. I'm sorry. Please wrap up. If you do have a, you will note that. Dorma that is very close to that. To the proposed driveway to an off. I think it says maybe there's a little bit of room, but that's significantly close closer than the five feet that the guide wants to. And again, this is a child bedroom. So. To have all these known conforming uses. And then to put. Something that really has zero benefit to the community. Actually a negative benefit to the community because we've taken away street parking for the retail. And you're also creating. And. And grace and egress issue as these cars back in and out of the driveway. Now, I know that we've got. Driveways as well, but these are driveways that people paid for. That this has value. Thank you, sir. Any other questions from the board? Sure. Anyone from the B.P.E.A. can speak to their recommendation. Mr. Hampton, are you present? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just a boy Jeff. He has a B.P.E.A. We received plans for one parking space. So, I think that's the first that we're hearing of two. And we don't show anything that has two spaces. The B.P.E.A. does not support a one to one ratio you're taking. An on street parking space. And essentially privatizing it. Our recommendation may have changed if we saw plans to, but. If it is going to be a one to one ratio, then we recommend denial. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. Madam Chair, I will put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. So, my reasoning is based on the B.P.E.A. memo that points to the loss of open space on site. And overall the general recommendation and policies of the city. Is there a second? Very good. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Uro. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Next we have case bill. 139. 6801. But the address of 251 to 253 would Avenue. Is the applicant and the representative president? I am Mr. Secretary. Good afternoon. This is Mike Ross. I am at attorney of the law firm of Prince Lovalle. I am here on behalf of my client, the nation's new in, along with the architect, Bone Chipwease. This is a good slide, Madam Ambassador, to start on. The purpose of our appearance today relates to the appellance purchase of zero-earned road, which is known as the current property of the current property, which is known as 251-253. What app? That they appellance and has not for many years. The appellant purchased zero-earned road well over a year ago. However, when he approached the neighbors to discuss his plans that are before you today, he heard overwhelmingly about one of the issues relating to an existing tenant. So he put his plans on hold for a year. He replaced the problem tenant, hired a professional management company, and began making some immediate improvements to this existing property. Next slide, please. So we are here now, one year later, to propose adding an additional two units to this existing corner lot to family building. So the new plan will expand the existing 6,014 square foot corner lot parcel to become an 8,580 square foot parcel to now allow for the two units to be built. So you can now allow for the two new dwelling units for a total of four units. I did horrible. I was so under the Canada. Just a coke, can you please me? Thank you. Yeah, let me turn off the other. Please proceed. To add these two new units. In addition, there will also be five new parking spaces for a total of seven parking spaces, notwithstanding the tandem nature existing. But that will accommodate the zone requirement for the two new units. And also the curb cuts you see are existing curb cuts, one in yellow road, and the worst the original. So next slide, please. So the next two floor plan slides show you all the floor plans in the proposed project. It will, it shows the addition on the rear of this building. And so the first two new years, the first unit is contained exclusively. You're seeing the attic floor in the basement. Maybe we go to the next slide, I'm a passer. The first floor unit is contained entirely on that first floor. The first unit is contained entirely on that first floor. It's a three-bedroom, one bath. And it's approximately 1,340 square feet. The second unit is on the second and third floors. So that second floor there. And then the third floor is on the previous slide, actually. And that unit is a floor bedroom, two bath. And it's approximately 2,011 square feet. And it also contains two outdoor balconies on the front of the building and on the side of the building. If you go to the next two slides, they'll show the elevations of the proposed addition. Against the existing building, I have both the sides of the front and rear on the next slide as well. And then if you go to the next few slides here, what you'll see there, that's the existing building on the right, 251-253, would have with the elevator road being the street. Going down that road there, and then the next slide there, that was 0-Hellard Road prior to the purchase. And then with the building existing building on the right, and then that's 0-Hellard Road after the purchase. You can see a new fence went up, and the property was landscaped as well as other upgrades to the property that are not shown here. I just greatly mentioned here on the zoning relief that we're seeking here today. So because we're increasing the non-conformity of what is a two-family and a one-family district, and that exceeds the 25%, massing, we were cited for that. The FAR for this part of Hype Park is 0.50. The existing structure is just over that, and this proposed structure would bring us to 0.69 FAR. For open space and usable open space, we were cited with the requirement being 1800 square feet for unit, and we are at 641 square feet per unit, but also plus we have balconies. We were cited for the number of stories, two and a half stories. I thought we were pretty close to two and a half, but we might have been just over it, so we were cited for that. We were cited for the side yard to our butter on the right of us, where at 7.2, which is an attend, and then this being a corner lot, we were cited for the two front yard measurements along the front of the building on wood-a-half, and the side of the building on a valid road. So that would be an 18.6 and a 9.4 respectively in a 25-foot zone or requirement, rather. The lot width, again, is the existing condition. The lot width is 47 on wood-a-half, and the requirement is 64-foot-a-half, and then the location of the end. We were cited for the location of the entry, but both entrances are on wood-a-half, so I'm not sure why we're cited for that, but we're cited for that. That's a composite or a minute, Chair. It's either in questions. This is the question. Are there questions from the board? Yes, Mr. Ross. How many can you tell me again how many parking spaces do you have, including the existing ones and the ones you are creating? Seven parking spaces all day. However, the existing ones, you see our tandem, and zoning doesn't give you full credit. So that being said, because this is a building that's pre-existing of the neighborhood zoning, we're only cited for the zoning requirement of the two parking spaces per unit for the two new units. So as zoning goes, we would need to have four parking spaces all day in this property for the new development. But after the community process, we were able to find the five in the rear and were total of seven all together. There are four units. Seven parking spaces per four units. The front one are tandem, so they wouldn't count as seven. You would probably count it as six. But the neighborhood dialogue was very extensive about parking. Initially, we had four only four in the rear, and we came back, and we added that fifth as part of the community process. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I have a question based on what Attorney Ross just said. Can you speak to that a little bit more on why you don't get full credit for the tandem? Is it the size of the stalls that you need to provide, or is it the configuration? It's the fact that there's one card for the other. You know, this money code, and I want to apologize because I'm doing this a little bit from memory. Remember we wealth, but each neighborhood is slightly different on this point. They all treat it differently, but they all treat tandem not to get the full credit because you have to move one card to get the other. You would get a maneuverability issue often if it was just hard to make the turning radius, but in the case of tandem, they're kind of their own unique situation, and they normally do not give you the full credit of four tandem spaces. Different neighborhoods treat it differently. Some give you half a half a point or 0.75 that depends exactly where you are in the city. Thank you. Thank you. The questions from the board. Here you are. Can I put the testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, the corner, and the mayor of the office of neighborhood services. This time, mayor of the office, it's deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the outpour representation, this went through an extensive community process. We understand that they were in contact with the local civic association, which is the East River Street neighborhood association without effort to the board of this time. Thank you. We call it 1455. I just alluded to get testimony here. Yes, afternoon, Madam Chair. I didn't come for this particular matter, but I just made an observation hearing the testimony that I think it's missing a bottom zoning violation. I didn't hear any information. The two families own, they made 2000 more square feet for each additional unit that putting in, which this lot size doesn't accommodate. I just, I just, just as an observer, I want to be patient that the violation is missing. Okay, well, thank you. We'll make no other lot. Jordan. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I've never stood board. Jordan, for you to see if Councillor Royal's office. Thanks for the hard work and support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please continue to park. I've just done the meeting, we just don't want a large, you know, structure like that being built in our community. Thank you. And I have no additional raised handstands. Okay. Any additional questions on the board? Mr. Hamilton, are you still with us? Could you just share your recommendation for the record? Thank you Madam Chair, Madam Supreme Court. We recommended to know without pressure just due to the number of violations and that you think that even with adding two units, it's excessive and we also believe that the rear addition is excessive. So we recommended to know without pressure. Thank you. I'm sure I think it very quickly. Yes, please. So the property does, it is a corner lie, as I mentioned, and it does about a two-f district. So it's on the border of a transition of another district. The new parcel being added to the existing property created, which added its own curb cut. So presumably at one point that something was happening there, and created this opportunity for the tenant to, I mean for the property owner to add few more units, from two to four and a near, you know, you're approaching 10,000 square feet or 8,000, 500 square feet thereabouts. You know, we all do work in this space that's four units on that amount of the square footage, even in a 1-f transition to a district is not certainly sound over the top, creates additional units. We're not starting over on the units, we're just adding two new ones. We'll keep the costs down, and it's will be market rate housing at probably the most affordable and unbacked. So it's an opportunity to create your unit. So just wanted to respond, Matt would like. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that have a motion? May I add something? We're taking a motion, may I have a motion? No, she'll have a motion to allow. We'll probably be able to review special attention to increasing the open space in the back. Is there a second? The second. This is the storage. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? I'm going to vote no. Ms. Logan? Yes. Well, the chair votes no, the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Madam Chair, I'll look forward a motion of denial without prejudice. I just think this needs more work with the bulk of the addition and the amount of paving proposed for this site and I'll see you stand up my feedback on this. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wewell? Yes. Ms. Logan? Ms. Logan? Sorry? Yes. The chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case bluerway 15373. Tribate with the address of 1081 River Street is the applicant and would be represented present to the spot? Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Nixels Rulum, the chairman of the Boatheon Miller and Hanley, here on behalf of White Acre properties, he's in Skybridge properties LLC, with me today's NSShayhook, and then our architect is Eric Sackerson from Context. Madam Baster, you can go, this is just a cover sheet, which we'll go back to next slide. Our team, which I just went through and I can quickly go through some slides and then toss it over to Eric to go through some of our presentation. You can see the site here in red. It's located on River Street between Lincoln Street and West Street. It's about a half mile walking distance of both the high parking, fairmont, commuter rail stations. The site is an oversized lot of approximately 15,000 square feet. It's directly adjacent to an existing 16-unit rental building at seven Lincoln Street. We are in a 2-way 4,000 zoning sub-district, which you'll see in a minute, but it is an edge condition on River Street. It is a very large oversized lot for the neighborhood. Next slide, please. This is just a close-up of the site with some context around it. And you can slide again there in the middle, highlighted in white at 1081 River Street. You can see the 16-unit residential building that I mentioned, adjacent to the site at the left, at seven Lincoln Street. That's a four-story building. And then there are other larger buildings up and down River Street as well, throughout the immediate neighborhood. You'll see in a minute the site desk does have a varying grade change. Generals slopes to a low point at the rear of the site, with the high point in the middle. The front of the site is currently about six feet above the sidewalk, which we're taking into consideration with the project. Next slide, please. This is just some additional photos of the area along River Street just to provide some context to the next slide. I promised Madam Chair the presentation says 37 slides, but that includes an appendix that's not housing or presentation. So don't have a heart attack. Thank you very much. I know it's been a long day. This is the existing rear yard. Just to show some photos of what's there now. We've seen an overgrown area. At the rear of the site, a lot of invasive species. What we're proposing to do, and you'll see in a minute, is clean this up. Maintain as much as we can in a relay landscape as part of the proposed project. Next slide. So I'll toss over to Eric in one second, but just to set the table here on the overall project before he goes in to more detail. This was an art collated small project review project. I was approved by the BPA in August. It's for a four-story residential rental building of about 27,500 square feet. The proposal includes 28 rental units with 15 onsite parking spaces, which you can see here and they are at grade and they are access to be in existing curb cut. The project will include six IDP units. I know, Mr. Valencia, may ask that question. So we do ask, we are including six IDP units, which equals a robust 21.5% affordable ratio out of the 28 units. And then as you can see here, and Mr. Zapperson will tell you in more detail, we do have over 9,000 square feet of open space, combination of ground level open space, which you can see here, ground level community patio, over 300 square feet at the top of the screen, which opens up from a roughly 500 square foot community room, as well as unit balconies and a common roof deck. So really a large variety of different options for the residents to use, at-grade and inside, outside, et cetera, for open space. So I will, Eric, are you on if you wanna go through? Yeah. Too much of your thunder, but maybe quickly go through these and then I'll take it at the end. Go ahead. Thanks, Nick. If you already got the same 9,000 square feet of open space. Yeah, so as you can see, River Street is on the right side of the destroying. This is a large slot, but also one of the respectful of neighbors, smaller neighbors on our top of the page and to the rear of the page. So the site has a 15 foot set back on the front yard before you get to the building, 20 foot on the rear yard, and then 10 foot on that side yard at the top of the page, that'll be green space. A lot of those trees were able to, to clean up and maintain, and then I have some new ones to make up for those that give or remove. The total on this floor is 5,000 square feet of green open space. There would be on the River Street side, the, you know, light purple here, a large lobby welcoming people from both the parking and from the street. There's a community room in the darker purple at the upper edge of the page and we're gonna have a small outdoor space. It's adjacent to that. The rear upper area has an enclosed bike room that would have like parking for 28 people, 28 bikes, and then a corridor that leads back to the lobby and the elevator in the front of the building. And then in the lower right, we have one ground floor unit. This is a two bed, one bath. All of the units in the building are going to be grouped one accessible. There is an elevator and that is the requirement that's what we're going to meet. The driveway, the existing driveway that you see at the lower right is the existing driveway to the site. Although because there is a localized building with all the site, we will be kind of, we'll be lowering the whole building. The existing two families sits on top of it, seven and a half foot tall hill. As I said, it's localized, oh, it's only within this site and all of that will be removed in order to bring the building down to the sidewalk level. Next slide. Please. Thank you. This is a similar drawing. In case anybody had any questions, did you mention a little more clear if there's no color? Next slide. So this is a typical floor. The, there's a mix, helping a mix of two bed, two bath, one bed, one bath, studios, on each floor. There are nine units per floor, and so 27 on the three levels, the levels two, three and four, but identical. The two front units have large deck spacing towards the street. The rest of the units have smaller decks, but the each one has a small deck adjacent to his living space in order to kind of, give them some private space in addition to the larger green space, which you see down below. This drawing happens to be highlighting, kind of, a mix of IDP units, and I think that's a couple pages, so just the reiterations of those, where those IDP units are, opposed to be located. Next slide. And the third floor, next slide. And the top of the building would have a 2000 plus square foot common roof deck, sort of quite an elevator on two staircases, but also pushed to the middle of the building, so that it's less likely to impact the neighbors. Wanna make sure there's a good green space, and a good open space for communal gathering, but we also wanna respect our neighbors. And so with the combination at the rear of 24 to the building, plus an additional 12 feet on the top, means that the rear of the building, rear of the deck, do more than 35 feet from the neighbor to the rear. And we just wanted to make sure that that was in this communal space and respect for those neighbors. Next slide. You know, I think I can take it from here. I think that's a back to me, thanks Eric. So just to show the zoning chart, we do need zoning relief, as you can see from the players of the project, it is still, we believe, scaled to complement that's kind of unique location on River Street, the substantial grade changes, which impacts kind of the heights and the setbacks and things that we can do. It's also an oversized lot, as I had mentioned, kind of, it isn't a 2F 5000, but it's on River Street, which is not in the neighborhood, it's on busy thoroughfare. Happy to go through these in more detail if the board has questions. I do wanna note that the height, we do need height variance for four stories. The bulk of the building is actually 43 feet 10 inches to the roof, but the chart we have as 52 feet 11 inches, just because that's the height to the headhouse for the roof access, which is part of the roof. But that's only for a small portion of the roof, obviously, majority of the buildings only that 43 foot 10 inch height. Next slide, please. I think this is just our refusal letter. Again, just to show, visualize kind of what, I had mentioned above in details the chart. Again, happy to go through these in more detail, but for the most part, we do need zone relief for these, but they are not necessarily far off for a lot of these. There are a lot of these here, but minimum relief necessary for the project. Next slide, please. I think these are the next couple of slides, are just quick renderings from Eric and his team, which did a great job to show how this looks, actually from the street. This is just a rendering. If you go back up to sorry, Madame Ambassador, really quickly, thank you. You can see just one of the reference what Eric had mentioned that we did bring the front yard down. Right now, there's a pretty large retaining wall. It doesn't be in there's trees growing in the sidewalk, and it's just not super accessible. So what we've done is we brought the front yard down, removed that existing retaining wall, provided a really nice front yard entryway in the building. It is set back from the street quite a bit. I believe we're at about 12 feet, 11 1 1, half a 12 feet to the front of the building. Next slide is just a rendering. I believe from the other side, just to give you a perspective from the other side of the street. Again, we can see that set back and kind of some of the maneuverings that Eric and his team did in the building, the balconies and in sets of windows and things of that like. And final slide, I think is just a final image. Of the project again, that concludes our presentation. Madam Chair, I just want to say that again, this is a 28 unit development. Six of the units are affordable. So it is 21 1 1,5% affordable. That includes, out of those six units, it includes two two bedrooms, two studios, one bedroom. And I'm sorry, two includes a three bedroom, two two bedrooms, two studios and a one bed. So a huge range, including a three bedroom, which is obviously much in demand. There's only three, there's only three three bedroom units in the whole project and one of them were designating as affordable, which I think is important to note. And then the final thing, I'll just know, Madam Chair, is that I know the mayor's office will speak to this, but we did get support from the District City Councilor or I know, I know, like his chief of staff is on. We did get a letter of support from State Rep. Consolvo. We did get a letter of support from the I Park Central River neighbor group in Miss Melanie Day, who hosts, who runs that group. And then to the immediate left of this, in the cheer that for building is that 16 unit, multi-family residential building at seven Lincoln Street. And we also received a letter of support from that property as well. So thank you very much for listening to us and happy to answer any questions that you may. Thank you. Thank you, appreciate it. It looks so floor wise, it looks in line with the building to the left that we're looking at. How's the height differential? It looks just a little bit higher. So yeah, it is a little bit higher. Eric, maybe you could answer that in a little bit more detail. It is a little bit higher for two reasons. One, the grade change that I referenced in our site, I believe, is a little bit higher. You can see it's starting to slow up towards us. Also, they have a four-story building, but their ground floor is kind of like a half floor. I believe, if that's right, Eric, I believe that. We're going to have to have a half-story tower than make it all into our room. So we'll be about a half-story tower. It's the same amount of stories, but because of the grade change and because of, again, I believe, their lower level is a little bit kind of sunk in into the ground. That's, there is a slight increase in height to our building centers. Thank you. Questions from the board? Very none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we call anyone with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, the mayor's office is deferred judgment to this board. As you will hear, they went through an extensive deputate process, and without it, it refers to the board. Thank you. Thank you. You could hear? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polanco here, a project manager, BPA, the proponent, a submitter application for a small project review on March 27, 2023. I was able to host a meeting on April 26, 2023. They went through the community process and a whole regulated process for this project, and they received board approval from the BPA board on August 17, 2020. Madam Chair, thank you so much. Thank you. Jordan, I have no way to say it. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Jordan here again, Councilor, I have a kind of royals office, SMILE records, wireless. Thank you. Wow. Thank you. Okay, and I have no raised hand. Okay. Are there any other questions from the board? Man, man, Chad, there's a couple of raised hands that just caught up. Okay. Just go, do you see them? I don't see them, so just go to get them. Yes. Yes. I do have my hand raised, and you said it was no hand raised. Okay, can you identify yourself and your address and please state yours. Whether you answer for opposition. Okay, thank you. It's great, my school district, I part, a member of the high-park neighbor's association, with assembled meetings, with the development of the abuters, and the abuters unanimously in deep opposition to all the violations, especially, the rooftop deck. You know, the proponent claims it's small, towards the middle, it's still concerned the neighbors and single family, they're all single family surrounding except that the apartment building is decided. They're all single family surrounding it, deeply opposed to that. But I want to register a two-state complaint on this proposal. The proponent stated that it's a driveway, that the dump truck, to pick up the dumpster, was gonna pull in and turn around, and there is no turning around for a dump truck in there. He then said, all right, then he'll back up into ribbistry. That would, it's a serious problem for the boy to allow trucks to back up into ribbistry. And that would include movie trucks, movie in on the 28 residences. You'll turn around, they could back up into ribbistry. This is around, if you're familiar with this road, right there is the shop is bent on ribbistry, just as they're approaching the square. You cannot see that existing driveway and you cannot have trucks being backed up into there. And also, the only room for going car to come in or come out, it have a car waiting on ribbistry there, around that bend, which is a dangerous bend. I'm waiting for another car to come out of the driveway so they can get in. Now, they didn't say something to the fact that, oh, they're going to work out an agreement with the, with the, a partying and apartment building, next to it to utilize buses to the driveway. And unless the board has a legal easing agreement on site in the end of it today, they should keep this serious thought. Thank you. And I appreciate your time listening to this guy. Yeah, thank you. Just got in. Yeah, go ahead. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Before I leave up comment siren, and I want to be Mr. Madison for the pleasure from passionate housing in unhasting whether it's not that we're having any things. Thank you. I think I have no additional reasons. Okay. Does the applicant want to officially comment before we proceed? Sure, Madam Chair, I would just say I mean, understanding Mr. Martin's concerns, you know, we do have a support letter from an, and an agreement with, uh, an butter agreement with our, a butter at seven Lincoln Street, um, to, to address these issues. So I think where we're understanding of the issues and I think, um, we'll work through them with the butter and with the BPD during design review with the board to approve this project. Um, but, uh, I think we'll work through the board to approve this project. Um, but I support from that about who would be most impacted by this and we'll work within throughout the process. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Hi, uh, May. I'm, hello. We're in the middle of a motion. Uh, Madam Chair, I think, uh, was they have their hand raised that, yeah, I was letting them prove to test. Yeah, the first gentleman with the eight, five percent. Yep, please proceed with the 0, five, six number. Yep. Um, I don't have an image, uh, but I would say that I'm, uh, the Lincoln Street, uh, a butter or two, that property, and, uh, it's such a, um, project that it will definitely, uh, I will lose my quality of life around here. In privacy, peace of mind that we have now, we also, uh, free canopy. And, um, not to mention the 15 parts parking station might backyard. And, um, that's a lot of pollution because noise, uh, parts, and people joining in and out all the time. And also, we lose, uh, the property when you have all those phones, balcony stands, the rooftop, uh, opening, uh, space. So, uh, this, there was a denial, uh, uh, uh, five years ago. So, I don't know, what made the difference this time. Okay. So, you're in opposition just to be clear for the rocket. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Any other raised hands, Jessica? I want, I got a check. No, there was a car. No, we have no additional raised hands. Okay. Uh, we have a motion. And, Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Snowbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is we wrong? Yes. Is Luke? Yes. Chair, also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case, be away. One, five, two, reach, two, seven. With the address of 40, P Mont Street. It's the applicant and will be going to the present two-ish line. Hello, Dominica. Hello, thank you. Hello, thank you. Hello, thank you. Hi, I'm Ben. That is I. I am just the owner of the property. And I was going to defer to the contractors company. They are all the plans and let them explain to you. If that's okay. Of course. Are they present? I believe they are. That's their plans that they are showing you now. So I'm going to let her speak. Who's speaking? I'm going to see you from here. I'm here. Okay. I'm going to mute myself. Thank you. Okay. I'm Chuliana. I'm the contractor for this project. This is a book that we are trying to build. This is going to be in the back of the building, not in the front of the building. So the jacket is very small. 9 by 15 by 9. I'm going to be not the whole roof deck. And I think that's it. Okay. Are the questions from the board? I have, sorry, I have a 3D design. If you want to look house, then I look like. If you want me to show you, I'll be in the plan. Okay. Okay. Are there questions from the board? Okay. Here in Nunmay. We have a testimony. Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Kim Krishow. From the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a better meeting with Health Bar Office in November of 2023, where no office is shown. They also presented to the Bay Village Neighborhood Association as well. We'd like to defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Audit. Members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flink's Office. The Councilor would like to go on recording support as we have her no constraints from the neighbors or our borders. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I know those hands. But that may have the motion. Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. Sure. Also, yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case of the away. 153. 733. The address of 68 Tramon Street is the Act Continental of the Representative President whose plan. Here you go. Any raised hand, Jessica? Carrie Roberts. Yes, Madam Chair. I just ask them to unmute. Thank you. Hello. Yes, sir. I just ordered to appeal so they should be able to unmute themselves now. Okay. Mr. Rogers. Okay. There you are. Hello. Can you hear me now? Yes, we can. Yes. Wonderful. Thank you. Sorry for that. Hi. Hello. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Ben Rogers. I'm the owner of 68 Tramon Street. And I'm requesting zoning relief for the building height. And so Charlestown allows for building height to be at 35 feet. And we are asking for relief for one foot 11 inches for the roof access room, along with the roof deck. Now this would remain under our limit for the far ratio. We are doing this for just adequate standing height, which would give the adequate ceiling height. Are there questions from the board? Here's none. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Breen with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. And the board's meeting was held for 68 Tramon Street on November 2nd. Since that time, this office has received zero letters in support in one in opposition, just to make note, one of the points in the letter was that the area was not fly. And they didn't receive fly. I did receive proof of flyer through some photos. Specifically to that address as well. And it's entirely possible in a way. But with that, we would defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. I see a Katie Bergen. Katie Bergen, yes. Hi. Katie Bergen, 66 Tramon Street in Charlestown. A set forth in our letter to the ZBA. My husband and I opposed the variance, which is the second that has been sought for this project. The first of all is raising the roof line and the plan did not show a head house, but rather a roof hatch. The first variance was approved with designer view paying special attention to the third floor addition in roof line. What exists today based on construction today is inconsistent with the approved plans. As the roof line is higher, it hits the peak of our roof, not a few feet down, as shown on the plans. And they've already built a head house on the roof. And the new plans continue to show a lower roof line that exists today and shows a large penthouse structure that is both out of keeping with the immediate neighborhood and poses privacy concerns as it allows views into our third floor bedroom through the four skylights which have been part of our house since before we purchased it in 2006. We object to the new variance and respectfully request that non-conforming improvements, fear moves in the project resume based on the original approved plans. Thank you. Any other ways, hands? No, thank you. Can the applicant respond for that, please? Yes, so we have followed the timeline of every inspection and we have passed every inspection. The house has been followed by the plans. We do not have a penthouse on top. We do have a staircase that goes to the top. It was weatherized. But again, we have passed and had city of Boston come out for every inspection and they have approved everything as we've gone along. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? No, sir. I would like to put forward a motion for approval with the PVA, will you? May I have a second? I can. Mr. Steinbridge. In Mia. Mr. Valencia. Yes. May we roll? Yes. This load? Yes. Shall also vote yes, the motion carries. Next, we have please do away. 150, 6164. But the address of 23 Hudson Street is the applicant and will they represent the president through the funds? I. Yes. Can you please put your name and address for the record and proceed? Yes. Next, we have one of the bill's public base on 23 Hudson Street. What is your request? We've approved the organ cell for the takeout. Business. Okay. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. This is Chu from Mary's Office of Neighbor Services. This proponent did represent and it's found in the Chantant Resonce Association as well as the Chantant Resonce Association. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not sure if this is a gentle Chantant speaking in support of opposition. I was going to represent the project, but I'm going to make sure the restaurant won't have a cent of it. Okay. I think we're good. Any other way of stands? No, almost that. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion no, please. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Buehwell. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. All right. Happy holidays to all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.