 I'm making sure. All right, I see everyone. Okay. Sorry, just. Okay, good evening, the City of Boston's Oning Board of Appeal hearing from March 16, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual meetings until March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This event is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, bossin.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panels are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by phone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. All right, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, President. Ms. Panato. Present. Excellent. I will turn it over to you, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you Madam Chair. For this evening, we will start off with case B-O-A-138-7141. Address being 436 Western Avenue. Is the applicant or their representative president? Hi Frank. Oh, okay, second. Let's say it's him. Mr. Stem, is that you? Are you here to give presentation to this project? Okay. Yes, the president. Can we explain what you're looking to do? I'm sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes, we just need you to introduce yourself, put your name, your address into the record and briefly what you're looking to do. Yes, so. I know, did he disappear? Yeah, I think he did. I think he dropped off. Oh, there he is. Okay. Can you re-give information again? I'm assessing. I sent a request. You're all set. Go ahead. All right. My name is Nat Deep Singh and I own the 436 Western Ave. It's a big daddy's pizza and a bright and mass and I'm actually a new ownership since June 1st June 6th, 2022. And everything is same thing. I'm not going to change anything else. It's just the same menus. Everything else is same. Pretty much just the ownership from the previous owner was Steve and right now it's going to be me. It's Nat Deep Singh. Great. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, I mean, I don't have a question. No, sorry from the board. Your presentation was straightforward. Yeah. Thank you. May I have public testimony? Yes, good afternoon Madam Chair. Members of the board. Frank Mendoza here. Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, Alston Brighton, liaison. Our office had the applicant conduct outreach to butters as well as to the Alston Civic Association. As well as to the Alston Civic Association. And noted no significant opposition at this time. We'd like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Jessica, any other raise hands? I have no raise hands at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. Was that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The chair also loads yes. The motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Sting. Thank you very much. Next case is BOA 1359819. The address being 21 Cape in the street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes, president. Can you introduce yourself and put your address into the record and just let us know what you're proposing? Thank you. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eileen Rosa from Rosa Design and Construction, located in Milton, Mass. And I am the residential designer representing the owner and the homeowner of this project. The intention is to change the occupancy from single family to two family doing to accommodate her mother in one of the units. And basically the house is an existing two and a half story single family home on a pre-existing non-conforming lot size of 3752 square feet. And intention is basically to propose a approximately 22 by 17 a vision at the rear of the house to be able to change the occupancy from single family to two family dwelling. Basically having the first unit one located on the first floor with two bedrooms and two bathrooms with a total of 920 square feet of living space. And unit two will be located at the second floor and attic area. This unit will have a total four bedrooms and two bathrooms for a total of 1,303 square feet of living space. The intention is to demolish a pre-existing addition of 11 12 by 11 feet and a existing deck on the first floor of 11 by 19 feet to come back with this new addition of 22 by 17 on the first floor and second floor. In addition, which is basically one of the violations as well, the excessive building height. The intention is to add a dormer or basically looks like an extension of an existing dormer on the right side of the house towards the dire court to be able to add that extra living space in the attic and have those two bedrooms with the bathroom up there. I'm open for any questions. Thank you. Ms. Panato, any questions on the plans? Are there any landscaping plans anticipated? Not yet, just what's being shown here. Yeah, I think, you know, have you thought about screening and buffering with your neighbors? So yeah, we the intention is to maintain the the left side. If you look at the club plan, there's an existing green space there that we're trying to maintain and anything related to buffering us needed will definitely work. I'm assuming with BPDH. Please ignore this is schematic set and showing two parking spots. There's only one there existing and that's the one that it's going to stay by the way. Okay, thank you. I don't have any more questions. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Any questions? Not at this time, ma'am. Sure. Thank you. With that, may I have public testimony? No, absolutely. We may not have shared members of the board, Eric James and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for 21k PhD held their abutters meeting on September 6, 2022. They met with the Rock neighborhood Association, which issued a letter of support stating that after reviewing the plans and discussing the plans, an area that proper notification was sent to the abutters, Rock has the butter to approve the request for support of this renovation project. All in all, we have received one letter of support to our letters of opposition and we are kindly deferring our decision to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor Murphy, are you speaking on this? Yes, I'd like to just go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. I don't have no additional raise plans. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDH design review. So, the exterior changes need to be submitted to the agency as well as any kind of, some attention to landscaping and buffering. Great. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stumberidge? Yes. Ms. Panado? Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 1382316, the address of 1486 to 1492. Do I just have a revenue? Is the applicant or representative of the applicant? I am the representative of the applicant. Okay, excellent. Do you want to walk us through real quick? Sure. Should I say my name again? Up to Jessica, I'm not sure. Okay, so good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Ily Roast. From Roast at the sign of construction. In this case, I am the applicant, representative of the business owner of this proposed nail salon. Fortunately, she was supposed to be here with me. She's on her way. I guess she's coming late, but anyway, we will. Basically, the intention, stated in the refusal letter is to change the occupancy of this existing commercial unit from beauty salon to nail salon. There was no alteration made in the interior of this unit, other than cosmetic to accommodate a total of 13 manicure stations. One of these considered a handicapped accessible one and three payday cure stations, as well as a waxing area station. That's all I have to share from now. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No, I'm not saying that. I'm adequate. Excellent. Thank you. May I have a public testimony? Pretty evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Kevin Train here from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We received no concerns from the butters within the 300 feet and the applicant also met with a few-sporn Pacifica Association on December 6th of 2022, and they would like to support this project. At this point, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional raise dance. Would that have a motion? Motion to approve. You have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case BOA 141-1164, with the address being 31, Howlett-Davis Street. Is the applicant or representative present? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, with that is a Marancy Business Address of 168H Street First floor, South Boston. With me today are the owners, Caitlin and Joe Renahan. This is a proposal for a full rehab of an existing one family with a proposed vertical addition of a second floor, along with an attic and a new farmer's porch. The existing footprint of the building will be maintained. The proposal is located within a 1F 5,000 sub-district. Watch size is approximately 4,139 square feet. The proposed living space is approximately 3,000 square feet split between 1,035 square feet on the first floor, 1,035 square feet on the second floor, and 935 square feet within the attic. First floor will consist of an entry-floor living room, dining room, kitchen, and a half bath. Second floor will consist of a master bedroom, along with two additional bedrooms, master bath, and as well as an additional full bath. Third floor will consist of just an open attic space. We have a violation for the FAR. We're excessive as we're proposing a .73, what is allowed by code is a .5. Building height in feet. We are actually compliant. We're under the .35 feet as we're proposing 32 feet, but we're excessive in stories. What is compliant is 2.5 stories, and again, we're proposing tree stories. We have a violation for the front yard setback. It's approximately 4 feet, 5 inches to the beginning of the farmer's porch, and approximately 10 feet, 6 inches to the dwelling, which is also pre-existing, non-conforming, as 15 feet is required by the code. Sideyard violation is also a pre-existing non-conforming at 7 feet, 7 inches on the right-hand side, but we're over-compliancy on the left-hand side of the property. And lastly, the last violation that we have is also another pre-existing non-conforming is the rear yard setback. We're at 17 feet and 7 inches. This time I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. That's any questions from the board. No, I think it's clear you're not changing the footprint, right? Just going up in the on that last story. Yes, and then the new farmer's porch, which just kind of alternates the actual front yard setback, which was previously a non-conforming. No other questions. Thank you. Would that mean I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayors Office and Apartheid Services. This time the Mayors Office referred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process, Owen S. Heldwood-Butters meeting on January 18th. There were some issues with some residents being able to attend with the meeting link, but we were able to connect them with the applicant, get them the information that they requested. Other members of the public that were on that meeting expressed support for the projects. The applicant then went on to meet with the Cedar Grove Civic Association, which voted unanimously to support this project. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Councillor Murphy. Yes, thank you, Chair. I know I had sent a letter to you earlier, but I just wanted to go on record to say that I'm in support of this project. One of the most pressing issues our office receives calls about is the rising cost of living in the city of Austin. This is a young family trying to afford to stay here and make their house a better size so that they can grow their family and stay here in the neighborhood. So I'm in full support of this. Thank you. Thank you. Julie? Madam Chair, members of the board, Julie Ryan from City Council of Frank's Faker's office. Our office would like to go on record in full support of this applicant and their proposal. Thank you. No additional raise hands. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Looks like you have one raise hand. Oh, do. Yeah, they just popped up after. Will you look at a give testimony? Is it Fleming? Yes, please. Yep, go ahead. Can just state your name and address for the record please and briefly tell us if we support our opposition. Joseph Fleming and I am the owner of 205 Milton Street, which is adjacent to the address. First, I wanted to say that we are not opposed to the family adding living space for the growing family. We're in favor of that. We know it's a problem for the city and we understand the problem. I was one of the people. I just wanted to make a couple comments. I was not allowed to speak at the above as meeting and the issues I would have raised were the fact that it was described to us as one floor and an act and it may have been described. People went to one floor and an attic and I think in the application of the described as one floor and an attic. I just wanted to understand that the an attic in the building code is not levels based. That's according to the building order. That was why the building code cited it as a violation of the stories because an attic is non-leveled phase and if it actually was an attic, then it wouldn't have violated the story because you folks allow two and a half stores. I had asked I tried to get clarified at the above as meeting but I was muted. I tried to get clarified and speak with the offence but I couldn't. The attorney has clarified that day. The problem is on the plans and it still is the attic. That was my question. I said it's an attic and it was living space because a lot of two separate things. The other question I had was because if it isn't an attic, then unless the attic was a space to also win a violated the limitations because I think that we mentioned that I think about falling 139. What's your second question? Okay. Mr. Spitz, do you want to just adjust that briefly before we vote? Yes. Madam Chair, unfortunately, I was not a part of the actual community process. This may just have been an administrative error based upon the architectural drawings as referring to the name of the actual room itself. As you can see from the drawings itself, there are in that third level what they're referring to as an attic. It clearly has three windows on each side. In my understanding of an attic typically does not have any sort of windows for natural light to come in. I'm not again. I can't really comment of the conversations that actually took place, referred to this as you know, they're homeowners. They're not quite familiar with the process and when they were presenting, they potentially could have made some sort of inadvertent mistakes as far as language in presenting the actual proposal to the neighborhood. I know they've been very responsive to Mr. Fleming as he did have some questions that were related and numerous times had numerous contacts with him. That's all I can really offer, Madam Chair. Okay. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? A motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. The Chair, oh, sorry, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. The Chair also votes yes. The motion carries and I would just encourage the applicant to continue dialogue with their neighbor. Great. Thank you. Thank you. The next case is BOA 1416253 with an address of 62 Cape in the street. Is the applicant or their representative presence? Yes, I am. This is Divo Montereo. Great. Can you put your name and address into the record and just briefly share with us what you're proposing? First of all, good evening members of the Zoni Board of Appeal and good evening everyone. My name is Divo Dringionantero. My case number is BO-1. You don't need to repeat that part. We are ready to do that. Thank you. Okay. I'm the one of the single family house located 62 Cape in Street. I would like to request relief from the Board of Appeal for the variance because I had an addition for a two-ninzey's in property. My house was built in 1910 and I have been leaving this house since July 6-2 or 2. I want to legalize a cup and see as a civil family residence along the Canadian addition to the Rio of the Marauds for standing the kitchen and the two bedrooms and two bathrooms. I have supportive evidence for my own case. I have planned for an architect a certified plot plan. It's great. With your measurement, I have a picture for my house and the addition. Great. Thank you. Ms. Panato, any questions on the plans? No, it looks like work already began on this addition. Yes, this is the addition. I am using the cello-privileged sheet because it's good because it's not cracked. Did they stop construction because you needed a variance? Yes. Okay. So I want to continue to continue. Okay. And what about the open space in the rear yard? What do you plan to do there? No, the office space. No, in the rear yard outside of the building. You're going to stay as it is. Okay. Is there any kind of usable space, open yard in the back? Tell us a little bit about what you plan in the back of your lot. Yes. Right here where we see all of this. Yeah, this is, this is I'm doing an addition. My house actually reached to level. First level, there's Kichi, one living room and one dining room. And the second level, there's one bathroom and bedroom. Since then, my family has increased in size because about property. You know, I'm not asking about the interior of your building. I'm asking about sort of how you relate to your neighbors and your backyard. And are you planning to do any landscaping in that backyard? No. Okay. Well, we're going to refer this to the probably the BPDA in this process for you to talk to them about ideas around sort of how you might pay some attention to that rear yard. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. With that, may we have public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Eric James from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant for 62 Cape Inch Street had an abundance meeting on September 6, 2022. They met with the Rock neighborhood Association, which gave them a letter of support stating that the members of Rock Police in Denver, as they look forward to ensuring that the residents are given the opportunity to stay in their community. So as of now, we have two letters of support. And one petition with nine names or nine signatures on it. We have zero letters of opposition. And at this time, we are deferring our judgments in the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. We'll start now. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPDA design review with playing particular attention to sort of the open space and the rear yard and set back. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, Mr. Montero. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, we have KCTOA 13948. With an address of 705, Massachusetts Avenue is the applicant for the representative present? Yes, the representative is present. Newving Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Attorney Russell Chin, Chin Law firm for 100 Hancock Street and Quincy Massachusetts, representing the applicant, Geefu Group Inc. Geefu Group recently acquired the restaurant formerly known as Grill 705 located at 705 Mass Ave. And this particular restaurant did have a proviso which prevented the allowance of takeout food. So we are before you asking for permission to include takeout as part of this operation. Thank you. Any questions from the board? No questions. May I have public testimony? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. KCTOA Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. No, our butters meetings was held due to it only being a change in ownership for takeout. And the civic didn't feel need to comment on the projects since it's only a change in occupancy. And at this time, we would like to defer adjustment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Would that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. The second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BOA 1429388. The address is 152 to 156 Dudley Street is the applicant or the representative. Hi, my name is. Hi, my name is Frankie Watts. Zalekka. I'm the owner of Etoff and Cafe. And my in Jamaica plane and my husband on the top and market in Roxbury. We would like to have a good place and our neighbor in 151 52 to 156 Dudley Street in Roxbury. Just we want to remove, produce and put our name. We're going to have people have this place. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, with that may I have public testimony? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Santana with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Noah butters meeting was held for this proposal, but they did receive support from local community members as well as the Roxbury main streets. And at this point, we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. That's got another race dance. I know that I see Robert George is on from Roxbury, main streets. They look at to give testimony here, Mr. George. Just wanted to check in with you. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Robert George, Executive Director of Roxbury main streets. And we're eager to support this location as the as the owner previously stated. They already have business in New Bend Square as a to the community. This new location is ideal. It serves as a welcoming and archway into New Bend Square coming off of Warren Street. And since they have in the past being such good neighbors in the district and this location is ideal for them, we urge quick support and approval for they to move into this premises. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. No additional race hands at the moment. Does that have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have. Excuse me. Next, we have case BOA 1424183. The address being 31 telegrash street. Is yeah. Can for the representative of present. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz. With that, I'm Samaransi, business address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. This is a proposal to change the occupancy from an existing one family dwelling to a two family dwelling by way of interior rehab only. The building footprint will be maintained. On page two of the drawings, it shows the existing interior layout as six bedrooms and two kitchens, which appears to have been an actual two family without the legal occupancy. The building consists of three stories in a basement, a basement, which is a full walk out into the rear yard. The proposed unit one will consist of approximately 979 square feet will be a three bedroom located on the first floor and the kitchen in the living room located within the basement as it is now currently located. Please note that the again, please note that the original kitchen was previously in the basement and will remain in the same location. The proposed unit two will consist of approximately 113 square feet, which will also be a three bedroom located on the second and third floor. A second means of egress has been added to the rear of the property, which resulted in our rear yard setback violation. We are compliant from the rear yard to the actual dwelling at 37 feet, but non-compliant to the egress stairs at 18 feet. What is compliant is 20 feet. We also have a violation for insufficient parking. As we do not have the ability to provide any off-street parking, we would be required to provide 1.5 for this additional unit. Lastly, we have violations for insufficient lot size and additional lot size as the lot size is currently 1,698 square feet, and we would be required to provide 2,000 square feet for that first unit, which is pre-existing, non-conforming, and an additional 1,000 square feet for the second unit that we're proposing. At this time, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments. Thank you. Ms. Panato, any questions on the plans? Can you just go over ceiling heights in the basement? Actually, yes. The ceiling height to the basement is approximately a little over a feet in the basement. As you can see from the elevation drawing on the right side elevation drawing, if you continue to scroll down, actually right here. This you can actually see from here. On the left hand bottom, you can see that there is a full-size walk out from the basement as the elevation substantially drops going to the rear of the yard. There's a full door set that allows you in and out access. The bedrooms, I know they're not required to have closets, but to anticipate closets, I think I see windows in all these bedrooms, but what about closets? Yes, there should be some closets actually in the bedrooms itself. I think that's where the little square lines in the dimensions are being drawn. I don't see any physical like doors showing the actual bedroom itself, but that's where they're supposed to be located. All right, I don't have any other questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? If not, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, Newman with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office held in a butters meeting on January 9th, where five people were in attendance. We did receive one phone call to our office where the resident expressed opposition to this proposal, but have not heard anything further beyond that. With that, we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have a raised hand here? Melissa, you looking to give testimony here? If so, can you state your name and address for the record and briefly let us know if you're in supporter opposition? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Melissa from Councillor Flynn's Office. We would like to go on record and support. Thanks. I'm going to make you a panelist, Melissa. Thank you. I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Is that me? I have a motion. I think a motion for approval with a provisor that there's no building code relief be granted. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Canado. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Great. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 140-5291 with an address of 924 East Force Street. The applicant who are representative for them. Present. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz. Adam's in the Marancy Business Adjusso 168H Street First floor, self-busted. We're actually here today seeking a deferral for two for two matters on this deferral. We're asking first one being is we would like to revisit. We've made some substantial changes to the plans. We'd like to revisit a second of butters meeting to show those changes to the community. That's part one. Part two. It was actually just discovered last week that this property is subjected to the mass historic inventory list. So which we're going to have to go through Boston Lamar's Commission and probably make some design changes to the actual structure itself. So based on those two, we would like to request a deferral. You might also look at that curve cut in the two tandem spaces while you're at it. Yes. Yes. So there's an existing. So that curve cut is actually pre-existing. It is a it's called Dean Way. So there's neighbors and it's within everyone's deed that they have legal access to access for cars, walking or any other sort of vincetace and the other abodding properties on Dean Way have full access to that driveway in parking in the rear of the yards. But I definitely will also take another look at it. Okay, it wasn't clear on the plans. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Spitz what a kind of duration of deferral are you looking for? I would say I would say just to be on the safe side I would say about a two-month duration and I believe that's probably what you're scheduling out with as far as we're in the city. I believe. Yes. So I know the conversation. I'll make a motion to defer. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Second. Sorry. That's okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Do we have a date Samantha? May 18th Madam Chair. Okay. If it's two months out if that's what's requested. That's perfect. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. And that's a subcommittee hearing again. Is that correct? Correct. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Next case. Next is case B O A 1415359. The address being 457 to 469 A. West Broadway is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. This is Doug Steffanoff. Architect business address of 423 West Broadway suite 404. Madam Chair and members of the board. Thank you for your time this evening. This is a request to change the zoning for the commercial space of this mixed use building. I first would like to ask that we strike and remove the request for the Jim fitness area as a proviso that was proposed as a use that was forbidden and with the community process they found that agree with us to their condition. Therefore we're going to remove that request that we remove from this and the focus of this request is the conditional use of the bank or on the left side and the retail bakery core in the middle which are both conditional uses in this district. Okay. So you're only seeking a conditional use for the bank and the retail correct? Yes please. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Do we have public testimony? Yes. Madam Chair and members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. We've had a long community process with this. Our butters meeting was held on January 3rd. Very well attended 27 residents were in attendance. The community was very outspoken that they did not want to Jim at this location regarding concerns about noise and vibrations for those who live inside the building. The other two uses residents seemed okay with and that's all the information I have at this time. I will defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Thank you. And I have no raised hands. Madam Chair. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. We'll have very much your time. Next we have case BOA 138-7131. You're just being 359 to 369, Huntington Avenue is the applicant or representative president? I am. My name is Jim Russo working for Millennial Foods doing businesses B good restaurants. I would like to remove the proviso allowing takeout in this location as we change ownership from B good LLC to Millennial Foods doing businesses B good same B good same everything nothing's changed no construction. It sounds good. Any questions from the board? Okay with that may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time the Mayor's Office likes to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns. App consent flyers out to the community and the civic local civic association said that they did not need to meet with them. We've had no concerns raised. Now we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Madam Chair, no raise hands. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next we have case B O A 1387128. The address being 84 summer street is the applicant for their representative. Madam Jim Ruzzo from Millennial Foods B good restaurants. Second verse same as the first. Like to remove the proviso allowing takeout in this location change names from from B good LLC to Millennial Foods. I'll incorporate it during business to be good. That's it. Sounds good. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, we'll take public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. And members of the board. This is Chiu from the Mayor's Office. The name is Sarah. So as this at this time we would like to defer to the judgment of the board. No, disappeared. The last chair. Sorry. Yeah, that's okay. I think he was going to articulate that our offices are making sense at this time. Sounds good. Thank you. Welcome to the office. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Council President Flynn will like to go on record in support. Thank you. I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you much. Next we have case VOA 1414388. The address being 152 Canal Street is the applicant's board. They're representative. President. You have a raised hand here. You can unmute yourself if you're on the panelist side. This is the state's name and address for the record. Briefly tell us what you look. Sure. My name is James Green. I'm an attorney at Rubin and Rudman at 53 State Street in Boston. And I'm here behalf of J and O Parking. The owner and operator was Parking Lot. I believe tonight Rowan Julo may be also on. But this is a parking lot that's been an operation between Canal Street and French Street in the downtown North Area, of Boston. It's been a parking lot since 1967 and has been subject to board of appeal review approximately nine times. The tradition for an off open space parking lot is the board of appeal. News you put say grants the conditional youth permit, but it's for a term of four years or three years. So the last few board of appeal approvals have been for three years. We're seeking another three year term, which would bring us to December 2025 unless the board wants to extend it further. At the last board of appeal meeting, hearing in 2019, the board asked that the project or the parking lot be subject to further design and landscaping and improvements, which we did during the pandemic. We hired Ryan Conner, an architect and planner to incorporate some landscaping and trees on French Street. We couldn't do that on Canal Street because of the location of the MBTA tunnel, but we did get the landscaping accomplished and we also added some rot eye and fencing, which would cover the security fencing on the lot. This lot is a tendon lot. It's not a a patient parking only and the tendon is there from 7 a.m. in the morning to 6 p.m. It closes at night and it's only open at night if there's a garden event and it closes one hour at the end of the garden event. So it's used for parking for businesses in the area and businesses. We've had support from a number of businesses who parked approximately 40 to 50 people. My client intends to also improve the signage, but that's dependent upon a BTD improvement in that. BTD improves the signage and also the parking rate. So the board does approve this. We intend to go to BTD and streamline the signage and also improve the attendance booth, which is on the lot and to make it more attractive. We have met with the West End Civic Association. Four years ago had this support entered into a good neighbor agreement with the Civic Association and they have also reviewed this again this year and indicated that they have no opposition to this. And therefore, but be happy to take any questions from the board Madam Chair or members of the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Just to clarify, is the landscaping completed or is it underway? It's hard to tell when these pictures. The landscaping is totally complete Jim. Okay. Thanks, General. You're welcome. Three trees were planted. They're all the salt free trees. The mulch was laid down, the loom was laid down. The fencing and the gates are all upgraded. And like Jim stated, all the new signages up were just waiting for the inspection and the booth has been completely restored and the city signed off of the permit. Perfect. Thank you. Very welcome. Thank you, Member. With that, Mayor, I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is referred to the judgment of this board. As you heard the applicant mentioned, they did some community outreach, flyers went out to a butters. No concerns were raised. They went on to meet the West End Civic Association, which submitted a letter of support with that we refer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Council of Flint, Office. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board, Council President. Flint would like to go on record and support based on feedback from neighbors and the West End Civic Association. We provide a non-opposition letter. Thank you. And I have no additional rights. Thank you. With that, Mayor, I have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve for an additional three years. Okay. Can I have a second? Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. The Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Next we have case BOA 142 1227. Address being 331 Hanover Street is the applicant and for the representative problem. Good evening, Madam Chairman and member of the board. My name is Cacada Lee, the owner of Sweet BOA. I'm the seeking removal provider from China Health to Sweet BOA. And I'm not doing a renovation. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, ma'am. Public testimony. Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office likes to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office held in the butters meeting on December 27th. I'm told that the butters were in support of this proposal. The applicant then went on to meet with the two neighborhood associations in the area. Nureau offered a letter of support as did Munich. It was in support as well. With that, we defer to this board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional resistance. Thank you. Can you confirm? Can the applicant confirm there's no exterior work either? Just noise too. Okay. With that, may I have a motion? A motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Raymond. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 142127 to address being 23 to 27 Tyler Street. Is the applicant and Lord their representative? Yes, I am. Hi. My name is Nancy Low. My address is 32. Cedarwood Road to Maker Plane. I'm representing the owner, Sue Hayley. She currently owns a restaurant at 70 Tyler Street. She would like to open a second restaurant at this location at 25 H Tyler Street. She's requesting a change of use from a beauty salon to a restaurant with takeout. She plans to do renovation to this space where she will be placing kitchen equipment, counter, food service equipment. She plans to prepare the food at her current location at 70 Tyler Street. She'll be transporting the food over in food containers that's been approved by the Health Division at ISD. She also will be serving specialty drinks at this location. And she plans to do home-style Asian cuisine and serving with takeout. And questions from the board. Is there any exterior work planned? She will be putting up a sign on the exterior. Okay. So this will be a restaurant and takeout? It's yes. A food service would take out. Okay. So just to confirm it's a takeout only restaurants. I mean food establishment is that correct? Correct. Any other questions from the board? May I have a public testimony please? Councilor Flynn? Good evening Madam Chair and Members of the Board Council of President Wigong Record in support. Thank you. Connor, do you have anything on this? If not, I have no additional raise hands. All right. Thank you. Chiu go ahead. Oh my goodness. I am having terror issues right now. Get out through Madam Chair and Members of the ZBA Board. My name is Chu from the Mayor's Office and the Services. This proponent has Leris support from the Chan Town Business Association and the Chan Town at neighborhood council. They have also met with the Chan Town Business Association. At this time, we would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I will make a motion to approve with the provisor that any exterior changes be submitted to the BPDA for design approval. Do you want to do design review in general since they're doing interior work as well? Yes. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Second. Sorry. Now I just need you to vote. Mr. Stembridge. Yes or no? Thank you. Yes. This is Monado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good. Madam Chair. Thank you. Madam Chair, could you send a stand? Would that be a proof of the GBA design review with special attention to the exterior or just general BBA design review? Well, well, design review in general covers both interior and exterior. Is that correct? I thought they just did exterior. Yes. I think because they're just changing the design. They're not making any changes to the interior right? They're just sort of changing it from one use to another. I think the recommendation is just for exterior design review approval. Is that hope you Samantha? Yes. So yeah, the motion is to so that BDA design review with the attention to exterior changes. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next. Next on the list we have case BOA 1432015. The address being 230 to 238 from on the street is the applicant or representative president. So we do a raised hand here once in one. So muted. Can you state your name and address for the record please and give us some information about the project? Yes. My name is Huang Chen. I'm the general manager of BB Cafe. We have taken over subway that used to occupy 230 triumashtri and that has been in the works for over coming up to two years because we used to have one at a 182 mass half near the Berkeley music and that closed down back in August. So we and then at that time we expedited this location. Then we find out after the construction has been all signed off then we realized there was a proposal on it and then we applied for the ZVA for variants to remove the proviso from subway to VV Cafe and also at the same time extend hours from 11 a.m. to 2 a.m. Any questions from the board? Okay. With that may I have public testimony. Good afternoon, I'm Chair and my members of the board is to from Harris office and neighbors services. A butter's meeting was held for this proponent on June 7th of last year. There were no concerns raised by community. At this time we would like to discharge our judgment and see the board. Thank you. Councilor Flynn. Good evening Madam Chair and members of the board, Council President Blinwood would like to go on record in support based on feedback from neighbors and the midtown Park Plaza neighborhood association. Thank you very much. Thank you. Would that may I have a motion? So approved with the proviso that plans be submitted to the BPA for design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Sembridge. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. And just to confirm BPD design review in general. Interior or exterior guys. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have case B08 140 8708 with the address being 118 Parkwood Street is the applicant or representative president? I am yes. My name is Timothy Sheann. I'm the architect for the project. I'm at nine Wall Street and Charles down. My clients own this single family 118 Bartlett Street and currently their master bedroom is up in the attic and they'd like to make that bigger with dormers. They'd like to do a shed dormer across the back holding in from the edges and they'd like to do a smaller shed dormer on the front to get a master bath in. We're under on the FAR but we have to go for restricted roof district and street alignment which I'm not sure why on street alignment but that's basically the project and we worked with the the our neighbor on the other side of the party well closely with regard to the dormer. They just wanted to hold it wanted us to hold it further away which would have done. So that's a project. Just a single family house with a family that wants to make a big more usable attic turn it into a master bedroom, you know a bigger master bedroom with a bath and a usable closet. Thank you. Just cannot owe any questions on the plans. They're pretty straightforward. No, the building footprint is in changing. No, no, man. Yeah. Okay. Great. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? I yes, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. the board. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This has been Mayor's Office like to defer to the judgment of this board. Are you going to have the applicant flyer the neighborhood and we received two letters of support from the butters with that we defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Any other raised hands Jessica? I hope I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. That may have a motion. Motion to approve a BPD a design review. Particularly attention to the dormers. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you everybody. Next we have case BOA 141280. I look to the address being 17 Austin Street. Is the applicant or their representative available? Good evening. Is there exactly some architect for the project? Nine, fact, they'll street in Charlestown. Do you want to walk us briefly through the project? The project is an existing single family home on Austin Street that had a fire a few years ago. Now it's been about two years and the plan is to reconstruct some of the second floor and basically take what was a bunch of very small add-a-key rooms on the third floor and make them into a couple of legitimate rooms. Overall it adds a little area on the second floor a lot of area on the third floor a total of 850 additional square feet from what is existing there and in the end we'll have a 3000 square foot four bedroom house. Any questions on the plans? One of the plans are adequate pretty straightforward. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Does that have public testimony? I yes Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, and even with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services at this time, the Mayor's Office would defer to the judgment of this board. Our liaison had the applicant circulate a notice to about us within 300 feet. We did not hear of any concerns related to this project. Without any defer to this board, thank you. Thank you. I have a raised hand here. Any other raised hands just because of Devon, are you looking to give testimony here? Can you state your name and address with a record and tell us if you're in support or opposition? Yes, I can. It's actually Jennifer Hurley. Sorry, this is my daughter's computer. We're at 17. I mean we're at 31. The gentleman architect identified Sackville Street. I believe he meant if this is about 17 Allston Street, that's what we wanted to talk about. I spoke to neighbors on the street. I don't believe we received any notice of an abutters meeting. There are several people that have concerns. There are four things listed on the appeal about the excessive stories, feet, side yard and rear yard insistencies. None of us know what that's about because we didn't know about any meeting. Are we on this proposal? Yes, this is 17 Allston. Sorry about the confusion. I live at Sackville Street. I was giving my address, but yes, this is the Allston project. You just happened to live on their street. It's two blocks away, yes. So confusing. Okay, so do you want to continue Ms. Hurley? Yes, so several of us did not receive notice about the meeting to understand what is being done. Not that we want something that's been in ice or for two years. We've been waiting. They don't, like I've complained. They don't take in the trash. There's raccoons living there. There's been complaints to the animal board. And so just no offense. It has not been a good neighborhood situation. And then we get a notice that they have four different violations that they need to change, but we don't know what they are. Certainly nobody, all of us on the street want something done to this house, but we just need more information. So I apologize if they say that people got a butter notices. I don't think there would be four people that I spoke to on our street that are directly next to them. Thank you. Thank you. That I will leave that to own us to figure out. And I would encourage the applicant to just engage in dialogue about it. With that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with BPD's design review and just sort of for the applicant to go back and sort of review the violations, I think most are pre-existing with the neighborhood. Yeah, I don't think it's an opposition per se. I think they want to understand what it is. Right. And certainly we always want to encourage folks to be good neighbors and make sure that they're in properties. Thank you. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Is there any way for me to put my phone number out for people to reach out to the neighbors? I mean, I think you can in the chat. If you want to drop me in the chat. Yeah, thank you. We'll do that. Yes. Well, next and last on the list, we have case B-O-A-143-4811 with an address of 18 to 20 Meridian Street is the applicant for their representative present. All right, if the on, can you raise your hand? The on for this project. And can you know, no bureau perhaps? Listen, okay, I'm waiting for Mr. Zacherson. I'll say that Ms. Hurley, Hurley, he is still waiting for a phone number if you want to drop that before we end. Okay, given their, their don't seem to present, I will suggest a deferral. If anyone would like to make that motion. Motion for deferral. A second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. What date are we deferring to? Oh, that's a good point. Well, they're not here, but are you, Samantha, you choose? So we want to give them until the next date staff. So if we give them to the next full board hearing. Because we already noticed it for that. You want to do that? Or do you want them on for subcommittee? I would just move them to the next subcommittee then. Okay. So that'll be April 6th. Yeah. All right. And who is this? This is just of this petition. I only noticed, right? Yes. It's just removing the proviso. Yeah. I think it's a subcommittee. Yeah. So, well, we'll reach out to the applicant. Thank you so much. All right. All right. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night folks. All right.