 you you you you you game I'm going to be back. All right. Man chair for George. We're ready. Hey, good morning. The city of Boston zoning board of repeal hearing for December 12, 2023. Now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. The hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen. And you will be muted throughout unless initiated when asked to comment. What members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists will only encourage to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Unlected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. We chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who will closely to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then to provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge needs to address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Mucahal. Good morning, Mr. Prasant. Thank you. Mr. Prado? Madam Chair, I don't see her on the panelist yet. I'll buy that for me. Okay, Ms. Logue. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, good to see you. Okay, so at the moment we are a five member board with that. I'll turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. I will start out today with the approval of hearing events. We have this from April 25th. May 9th. May 18th. May 23rd. And June 6th. And now the October of 2020. Okay, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion probably minutes. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mucahal. Yes. Mr. Logue. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Next we move on to the extensions scheduled for 9.30 a.m. The first is case BOA 734 923 with the address of 24 to 44 Nile Street. The board originally granted relief. This relief won January 12th, 2018. This relief remained valid until January 12th, 2020, which is far. This is the applicant's first request for an extension. It will ask the applicant and will they are representative to explain the situation and if successful the extension will be to December 12th, 2020. Is that the applicant, Mr. President? No. Yes, motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Can you raise it hand if you are on to the proposal? We will come back at the end of the extension of the manufacturer. Yes, thank you. We will move on to case BOA 112. 4, 4, 0, 3 with the address of 160 Geneva Avenue. The board originally granted this relief fund January 29, 2021. This will leave for main ballot until January 29, 2023, which expired. This is the applicant's personal request for a one-year inspection. And that gave credit to you. Let's hear from the applicant. Oh, sounds good. Who's morning Madam Chair and members of the board? I'm the architect of this project. The owner of this project, we actually applied for the permit and received the approval for the permit last year. And the owner had some health issues that kept him away from work for almost a year. So the permit's actually been approved. And he just never picked it up or paid for it. And so now we're in the situation where it has expired and so we're trying to renew it so we can now continue the permit and get the permit. So when you receive it, are you ready to proceed? Yes. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Thank you. Opposite to our grant extension until December 12, 2014. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Steinbrich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Mukahal. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case B over 107, 0807 with the address of 150 registry. This really was granted on January 20, 21st. They were asking very requesting an extension until January 29, 2025 with the applicant and on their representative. Please apply to the board. Thank you, Mr. Steinbrich. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board, Attorney John Pligini. On behalf of the applicant, this is a partnership between the planning office for urban affairs and the Caribbean integration community development company. It's 30 senior affordable units located at 150 River Street and Mattapan. And the reason for the request is the bond financing from the Commonwealth is not available until 2024. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? We have been for an extension to the sum of 12.24. How we are looking for January 29, 2025? Yes. I have a move. I have a move. Sorry, I have an option to extend to January 29. Thank you. Mr. Steinbrich. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Macau. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. Mr. Logan. Chair, also, yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Next we have, please. The only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, the only one that I have to say is, is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Mukhaal? Yes. Mr. Logue? Yes. Mr. Sher also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. And finally, the next case of birth symptom is case B.O.A. 9-6-2-8-2, with the address of 40 Berkeley Street, with a Virginia Winkering to believe on March 13, 2020. And they ask, and they have, Ken says asking for, for root, to be extended to June 15, 2020. I have all done. 2024, Mr. John. Good. Thank you. Why don't we let Mr. Zool? I'll take over from here. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Jim Madam Chair, again, members of the board, Attorney Nick Zoola, McDermott Crolti, Miller and Handley, LLP. This is a little bit of a different one. We're actually asking for a confirmation, sort of, so to speak, of the zoning relief expiration. And I can quickly tell you why. So this is the revolution, the revolution hotel at 40 Berkeley in the south end. This is for their rooftop outdoor amenity space. And what we're actually looking for is confirmation of the zoning relief expiration. Because of the state of emergency toll and act, this is just, it's not going away. There was some confusion here. And we sent the letter because the zoning relief was originally granted in March 2020. The applicant then obtained the zoning extension on February 15, 2022 until March 13, 2023. But that original zoning approval, we believe in our understanding, is that that original release that was granted in March 13, 2020, should have actually been told by the state of emergency, which actually went into effect on March 10, 2020, which is just a few days before we got the approval. And it was entered in at ISD. So it was a little bit of a, like, literally on the cost of the wind that, even state of emergency went into effect. So with all that being said, we did get the initial two-year period, should have, we believe, run until June 15, 2023, which was six months ago. However, to add to a wrinkle to all this, we did get a zoning extension during that time period, which was granted in February 2022. So our, our understanding of belief is that that original zoning extension was actually misapplied as it was granted during the two-year tolling period due to cope. So with all that being said, the extension technically should have been at one-year extension from June 15, 2023 until June 15, 2024, as the project zoning decision in original release because of the tolling would have been expiring on June 15, 2023. And then you add the one-year from the originally approved extension to June 15, 2024. So, all that being said, sorry to put everybody's brain in the first thing in the morning on this hearing. Well, we're asking for its confirmation that the existing expiration date is actually June 15, 2024, which is what I just went through to try and explain. And happy to answer any questions, but in essence, we believe that we don't need an extra extension at this point. We're just looking for confirmation that the release will expire on June 15, 2020. So thank you. Okay. And are you ready to proceed and complete by June 15, 2024? Or will you be back for another extension? We may be back, Madam Chair. I mean, if the board would be so inclined, we would ask for an extension until June 15, 2025 to be safe. You know, this is a hotel. It's on top of a hotel. So it is still part of the hospitality industry, which was impacted pretty significantly. My understanding is they do want to move forward with this. I don't know with what speed they will be moving forward. But yes, the plan is to eventually go forth with this project. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? First, I'll first be comment. Thank you, Mr. Zuzuru. We'll explain that for sure. And I make a motion that the extension be granted until June 15, 2025. Mr. Asakun? Second. Eklund? You're Mr. Asakun. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Mukal? Yes. Ms. Lowe? Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much for listening to the United States. Thank you. You're welcome. At this point, we can return to case BOA 734-923 at 20, with the address of 24 is at 44 Nielin Street and ask if the applicant will be represented as present. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Still, we'll see a later hand. You don't? Okay. Okay. Man, Chair, yes. I'd recommend just to deny this. This request is there not here? Okay. Is there a motion? Motion 29. Mr. Asakun? Second. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. And I believe Ms. Ruebel has joined us? Yes. I am here. And I will vote yes. Thank you. Ms. Mukahal? Yes. Ms. Lowe? Yes. Chair also votes. Yes. Motion carries. We are now a six-member board. You're also a three-member. At this time, we'll move on to the recommendation. This is probably a subcommittee. I'll also schedule for 930. First, I'll read through the recommendations on what the subcommittee decided. And then we will take a vote at the end. First, we have case B.O.A. 153-0571 with the address of 665 oil substrate. These vote are wrong. And it was a companion case of that, which would be case B.O.A. 153-0576, which also had the address of 665 oil substrate. These subcommittee voted to approve the Medicaid vote case. Next, we have case B.O.A. 126-7356 with the address of 70 of 26 spring. The case was approved. Next, we go to case B.O.A. 152-741 with the address of 6 study bank road. The case was approved. Next, we go to case B.O.A. 152-8266 with the address of 112 temple street. The case was approved. Next, we go to case B.O.A. 15162-06 with the address of 41 pooled road. The case was approved to be decided by the full board on which will be later today. Then we have case B.O.A. 15177-97 with the address of 46 lindwood street. Next, we have case B.O.A. 146-924 with the address of 25 verstree. The applicant requested that the case be withdrawn and that was approved. That is the end of all the recommendations from the subcommittee. Is there a motion? May I have motion? Motion to approve the recommendations from the subcommittee. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Rizlou? Yes. Ms. Mukohal? Yes. Ms. Loughgan? Yes. Yes. Chair also votes just motion carries. And just as a reminder, we are still a six member board. Before we move into the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m., I will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or the trolls from this time. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? This one has the Spanish interpreter? Yes. They should be in a interpreter on. Yes. Okay. Oh, this is in interpreter for the case. Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Charlie. Okay. I am here, team. Okay. So should we have the interpreter—interpret what just occurred? Oh, here? Yes. Have the translator translate for the Convention? Yes. Yes. translator translate for the blood of which is occurred to request the referral. Okay. I'm sorry. Can you please repeat for the interpreter, which was approved? It was not approved. It was the applicant requesting a deferral and then we'll continue after that. Okay. How did you update? Yes, ma'am Chair January 9th would be 2024 would be the next available date. Do you want to interrupt? Thank you. May I have a motion? Motion to defer these two cases until January 9th, 2024. Motion to move on to move on to November 9th. May I have a second? Second. Second? Okay. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Amizou Rao. Yes. Ms. Mukahal. Yes. Ms. Rao. Yes. It sure also will be as motion carries. Thank you. The motion was carried out by the team. Ms. Valencia, Ms. Tromba, Ms. Lambert. And also the last lady, Ms. Mikae, was all the motion carried out by one. Thank you. Okay. I think that's it for this case. Mr. Stonebridge. I will ask you to answer any request for the calls of the first. 9.30 AM, Gary. The floor is we have one, Ray Sam. Okay. Ms. Mikae, I ask you to answer me. That will be the first. Thank you. I have a question. That's the idea. I know you continue hearing. No further request. Move on to case. First case of 9.30. Case B.08153. 9718 with the address of 121270. I'm a wealth avenue. I hope that this is an R or 80 case. We'll be applicant again for the representative. We're going to the board. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Thank you for the opportunity to present our project this morning. My name is David. I'm a heart-wrecked full-screen. This is address at 400 LNAT. And I'm certainly just setting up the secrets. and then I'll hand over to other members, the project team, I'm here with Matt and Colin from Pieds, who will give a quick introduction. And the project architect, Gagin from CBT, will walk through our slides. And then toward the end, I'll just briefly touch on the zoning relief, the rest of the zoning relief, before turning back to you. So Matt is up next. Thank you. And thanks, Dave. Good morning. Thank you, Matt and Cher. The members of board for allowing us to present the project. I'm Matt and Colin here representing the development team, both of clients and the Ben and team group. Dave will, Rob will touch quickly on the process. But we've really been at this since 2019, that a lot of process and community engagement and we feel as resulted in significant changes to our design and a lot of impactful community benefits. We worked extensively with governmental authorities, BPDA, DEC, and the community to get to a point of a very well-designed project that will enhance this neighborhood, provide substantial community benefits. So again, thank you. Appreciate all your time. I'll hand it over to Rob to give a brief overview project in the side. Thanks, Matt. Madam Chair, member of the board. I thank you so much for your time. So we move to the next slide, please. So Matt started to look to. We've had a very robust and very positive process with the city of Boston with the local voters, the IHG, the Boston Civic Design Commission. And then are here, we think the project that really needs the needs of the neighborhood, the voters, the community. And so we started the process back in 2019. We've received, we've held our letter of intense in March of 2022, a month later, we've held our PNS. We received a Boston Civic Design Commission approval and June of 2023. And then we're approved by the BPA board in August of 2023 and now in front of you here in December. Next slide, please. Just to orient folks to where the project lives, there's an aerial photo that's the center of the page here. The site is highlighted in red. It's a 1.27 acre parcel. And it's currently, if you see in the inset to the right, it's currently a single story. They can retail, building for a third of the site and two-thirds of the site is service parking. And so what we've proposed is a development that's approximately 190,000 square feet, predominantly multifamily residential, with a couple of amenities. We also have approximately 2100 square feet of neighborhood-scale community retail space. And then the balance of the program is approximately 68 vehicle parking spaces, which works out to a 0.33 spaces per unit ratio to serve the uses on the site. And approximately 16 of those spaces may also be made available to a bunch of residential properties. Next slide, please. This is an aerial view of the proposed project. Which did itself very carefully into the surrounding context, meeting the street wall condition, creating a zero-wall line effect with the rest of Commonwealth Avenue, and really scale appropriately to enhance the streetscape and really fit nicely into the site, your view here from Commonwealth Avenue on the right-hand side being Gora Street. Next slide, please. I'll put the top of this slide really is an elevation to show the building in context, showing it really kind of meeting the scale and the materiality of this part of Commonwealth Avenue, aligning with the street wall condition, sort of setting back the development on the site, and really adding on three sides of the property, a robust streetscape and enhanced public realm, approximately 5,000 square feet of our own site areas being devoted to enhancing that streetcape. That's about 9 to 10% of the overall site area. And then down below you see three perspectives that really show the ground level of pedestrian experience, long-common with Avenue, Gora Street, and Brainerd Road. And the goal really is to create an active streetcape that is safe and inviting for folks to be able to move through the neighborhood. Next slide. This is a ground level plan of the proposed developments. You see to the left hand side, Commonwealth Avenue, where we've really located most of our active space, including our retail space and our residential main lobby, which is right on the corner of Commonwealth Avenue and Gora Street. And as you're on the corner on the floor, and you see that we've really lined the ground level of Gora Street and Brainerd Road with residential units to really deepen in sort of consistency with what else is shown throughout the neighborhood. And in a way to create a nice rhythm and a really excellent sort of robust pedestrian experience that's both safe and inviting to walk through the neighborhood. And then along Brainerd Road, you'll also see that we have an alley that's on our site existing access points that will allow for residents with cars to be able to access the internal part of the site and keep that also the rest of the streets. Next slide, please. And this is a view looking back from Brainerd Road toward Gora Street to really illustrate the design of the building. It's brick masonry on all three sides to really tie in with the neighborhood materiality. And also to show that it really has been crafted to be scaled down to keep the scale of the neighborhood buildings along our side of Brainerd Road. And to really create a more robust and inviting views from the rest of the neighborhood, but also the rest of the experience of walking down toward Commodore Batman. Next slide, please. And we wanted to end by just offering a high level with some of the proposed community benefits that come with the proposed development. We've divided it really into four buckets. That's the affordability and unit mix, open space and public realm improvements, sustainability, and then finally sensitivity to context. We're doing affordability bucket. We're really proposing a 70% onsite IDP units with a range of 50, 60, and 70% AMI. There's up to a $50,000 contribution to the Alston Brighton Homeowners Fund. And up to $14 million is being proposed to find solar projects on Commodore Batman for the Alston Brighton Community. It's like me, development center. And then for the open space, we've dedicated, as I mentioned earlier, about 5,000 square feet of the site area within a site boundary from public realm. We've added an additional net 20 trees to the site in some public realm. We've upgraded all the sidewalks to complete street standards. And we're proposing a $300,000 contribution to the parks department. It's really dedicated toward Ringer Park, which is the closest park to the proposed development. And we have up to $25,000 of contribution to the mayor's Office of Arts and Culture to help advance the goals of the Alston Brighton Arts Culture and Placekeeping Report. And then finally, when we sustainability perspective, the proposed development has always been contemplated as very green and sustainable in our targets or for a leave-go and asset health certification. We're also proposing an all-electric building to be combined with net zero carbon zoning, as well as health and wellness focus with potential good-well certification. We also have ED charging stations proposed for 25% of this basis with the capacity to raise that up to 100%. And then finally, responding to the context of this building is really the ground-level units along the Orange Street Green Road with terraces to really reflect the rest of the neighborhood. We've also committed to creating an urban infill building that really needs the street edge conditions, including a continuity of the street wall along Commonwealth Avenue, requiring a zero-allot line setback, as well as sort of height and scale to step down with the neighboring buildings. And then we also increased the real estate tax contribution for the parcel. And we're proposing to work together with the building trades and carpenters to comply with the residence job policy. And I will pass it back off to David to follow up. Thanks. So just very quickly, Florey, and in the back, you can see, you know, since we saw some push-in and pulling the projects, I'm happy with where we've come to, of course, the article A and E pre-well is a schematic design. So some finalization of EPA design review and whatnot. So the coordination that we've had with others and others will continue as we move toward a building planning plan set. But looking at the cement design, the Zoyn week that we're requesting as to the Khan ad green belt protection overlay district that's along the frontage of the project, that's what I believe that the multi-family use is allowed on the upper floors to do on the ground floor and accessory residential services. That's also those items of relief, FAR, Pite, SIDY, and then the parking is actually set through article E. But that's also being confirmed as part of our project. And thanks very much. Thank you. Is the project manager from BPDAM? Yes, Madam Chair. Come on. Anything to add? Yes, yes. So we hosted three IEG, three public meetings on July 19, 2022, May 15, 2023, and July 26 of 2023. They're all well-attended and advertised in open newspapers. The proponent also worked with city counselors in open elected officials to relieve concerns voiced in opposition letters by the community. And they are in a good standing with local elected officials on this project. And so we are in support of the project. So I just can ask a couple of questions that came up from Austin Civic Association. I'm just wondering how they were addressed in the community process. They referenced the mature trees that were being removed, as well as loading. Like doesn't sound like there are any moving or loading or loading bays or spaces for parking? I believe there is a loading. Can someone address that from the office? Or you? Yeah. Rob, on your side back to that plan. Yes, yeah. So thank you. You see the loading is access from Borenstreet. And this is predominantly due to the required turning radius for vehicles to be able to access it. And we've tucked it in almost at the corner of where Borenstreet meets Brainer's road. Bottom right corner of the page. And then in terms of trees, the trees on site are merely some basic speed. But we have added net trees of broadview, probably of the exact number. 20. We've added 20 net trees. I believe the trees being spoken over are in basic species and they're sort of internal to the block. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none. May we have public testimony? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Borenstreet. Frank M. Dosa also, right? The age of the mayor's office of the neighborhood. Services here, as a part of the community, engage with the process. We also have association at the right. And also group association. The Austin's and association did sit a letter earlier in the surrounding called President or the Texas as well that they are in opposition to the project. We also received major concerns from residents of Brainer Road and we're requesting the RPP for the street, as well as the applicant requesting the same as well. Our office was CSEed on one economic letter sense of the EPA, detailing president concerns from A to right to butter. The Brighton Austin Group Association, zoning chair and other homes may also be on to testify as well. With that said, we'd like some further judgment before it happens time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other elected official offices? If not, I go to minor and I'll be Tony. Thank you, Melangan. I said, I'm the chair member of the board of minor for the term president in the carpenter's union. On behalf of our decision, carpenter's the living board for the city of Boston, we're going to go to great health support and I will take a minute to thank the Mayor of Boston for allowing the carpenter of the process. Thank you. Thank you. Tony? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Tony Dizador, representing the Austin Civic Association. We would like to go on record the ACA that is overwhelmingly opposed this project in addition to the points that Madam Chair just made. A couple of other concerns. There's absolutely no green space on this project. We talked about the trees in terms of the context of the neighborhood and being on Commonwealth Avenue. The building is going to be in terms of density and height sort of out of character for that portion of Commonwealth Avenue. The project will be all rental and as you know, in Austin, we're looking for more homo-relation opportunities. Unfortunately, the proponent did not deliver on that. And finally, Madam Chair, given the numerous concessions that are being asked to this community in terms of height density and especially the lack of green space, the proponent was only able to commit to a 17% IDP rate. Normally, the community that in most cases, even across the city might be a little bit more receptive to more IDP, more density and height if there's more IDP units. And yet, all the concessions that are being made, the proponent was only able to commit to a 17% IDP rate. So we would like to go on where it is overwhelmingly opposed to the project. Okay. Sending our question on you. Okay, this race. Trying to request on you to Madam Chair, but I am not getting anything open and I have no additional way to answer. Is the applicant would like to address some of those issues? Is there an opportunity to meet folks part way in this? Yeah, I have a comment on the green space. Yeah, I can, Madam, if I can jump in, also just starting the process, if you really worked with counselors and tried to work with the community, Madam Chair, just like you said, to meet, find some place in the middle. Essentially, that's why the project is allocating $300,000 from the project as a community benefit to ring a park because the project did recognize that it wasn't able to provide enough open space on site. And so they want to provide a financial benefit to the closest park associated to the project. So, recognizing that they would be bringing more density to the area. And so hopefully to keep the green space in the park up to par while increasing that density in the area. And they also, speaking to the 17% affordability, the AMI's are significantly lower. I'm there at 50% to between 80% AMI, and usually we see projects coming in at 70, starting at 70% and going up to 100%. So they also lower the AMI's as well to try to beat the community somewhere in the middle. Thank you, Mr. Us. Yep. Can I also add on the affordability, we have added a $50,000 contribution of the all-waters fund. And then I think even more importantly, we're contributing to also writing CDC to fund solar panels under the roofs and in the neighboring property that's up to $250,000 additional dollars, which will help reduce utility expenses for the residents of that community. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, for the developer, Madam Chair. Do you think that any opportunities to increase the number of IDP units or make some of those units even more affordable for people be low 50%? I think we've, you know, in mentioning some of these other items in contributions and dollar amounts, we've kind of maxed out terms of our, just given where costs are and financing environment, it's extremely difficult to go about 17%, which having these items that we can contribute to, you know, neighboring communities and all more responses kind of allowed us to even get to that 17% with these lower range to the AMIs. Yep, okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Okay, hearing none, may I have a motion? And I'm chair up before the motion of approval. I think this is a good project. I like the levels of affordability provided, as well as the contributions nearby. So I'll, before you approval. Is there a second? Third. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Ms. Mukahal. Yes. Ms. Panato has joined us, Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Sure, also, yes. Motion carries. Thank you, you're members of the board. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1, 4, 7, 2, 8, 4, 2, with the address of 370 Vermont Street. If the applicant's handler, the representative present, will they explain the case of the board? Good morning, Mrs. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Colt, T. Miller, and Hanley at 28 State Street in Boston. Would you like me to begin, Madam Chair? Yes, please. Okay, thank you very much. So I'm going to introduce you to our team, and I'm actually just going to take you through the presentation in order to keep this brief and make sure we hit all the points and allow for discussion. So I introduce myself. I am with Lucio Trabucco, who is the architect for the project. Also, the owner, Louis Dacoyanis, who is from the neighborhood grew up in the area and owns the Baker Street cleaners, which is across the street, and is obviously the owner of this property, and the property to its right, which is relevant to the zoning as we get through the presentation. Next slide, please. So just taking to the existing conditions at the site a little further out. So 370 Baker Street is at the intersection, it's a corner lot, the intersection of Baker, and Vermont. It is within a half a mile short walk to the West Rocksbury to Commeter Rail Train Station, which is at the Grange Street. Next slide, please. So it just takes you a little closer up so you can see the existing conditions better. Again, in the red oranges hash is the site. It's a little under 10,000 square feet of land, and there are two curb cuts existing now, one on Baker, one on Vermont, and you'll see an existing single-story commercial building with a parking lot. Next slide, please. So there it is, right? You get a perspective of the existing building, and has this neighborhood market. There's a nail salon on the other corner of it, and Vermont Street is to your far intersection taking the right there. Next slide, please. Looking up Baker Street, you'll see the building at the corner on the left, that's the nail salon. If you take that left, that's Vermont, and there's another curb cut on that side that you don't see yet. Next slide, please. There you are. So you can see commercial curb cut of residential street, which is Vermont, as well as the existing curb cut on Baker. And the single-story commercial building that would be replaced by this, next slide, please. So, mentioned the site, and the uniqueness of this site, and the proposal justified the relief that is granted. Specifically, the site is 9,940 square feet. Again, the two curb cuts that are there and the single-story building that will be replaced. We are improving the condition at the visibility of the corner, which is one of the areas of relief from the existing building to what is being proposed for a new structure. Next slide, please. So this is just intended to show you where we've been. This project that started pre-pandemic, just before the pandemic, originally that we've probably had a little more aggressive proposal to do a five-story building that was going to be subject to small project review. It was then dropped to beneath 20,000 gross square feet. It's now 19,750 square feet, which is less than that threshold of 20,000 gross. We dropped the story, we had dropped a story, we had reduced the density, and then we went out to talk to the neighborhood group, which is the West Rocksbury neighborhood council, and a butter's meeting and two meetings with them. The final result is a proposed four-story building with 14 residential units, which will be home ownership, something that is desperately needed in the neighborhood in the city, two of which will be affordable, because we're over the 10 mark. And we will have Brown floor retail, which has been reduced in size to what's there now, to a space of about 1186 square feet. So very small space, which will be for the retail market. 23 parking spaces, and we are sealing that curb cut on Vermont Street, which is an improvement to the residential and back of us or the side of us. Next slide, please. So just to tell you about the relief, there is one notation here. We do not need relief for the side yard. We have communicated that with ISD, but it was in the interim period here. So should there be a motion that's entertained, we are not looking for side yard relief as we don't require it. What is required is a 12 foot setback, because we have about one of 5,000 sub-districts, and as you'll see in the plans, we are 12 feet off the side yard. We do require a minimum relief necessary for the building height, for the rear yard, and the memory base. As well as for the alignment of the building at the front and the visibility at the corner, which I can talk to you about. So the building height is approximately 38 feet in a 35 foot zone. We are in a neighborhood shopping sub-district, which it's important to point out allows the multi-family use, and it allows the new retail market use. Very much in line with the BPDA's new quarters and streets initiative in a neighborhood shopping sub-district. The rear yard requirement is 40, and as I showed you on the site plan, we are the abutting rear yard. My client owns the building that abuts the rear yard, so that mitigates the relief. In addition to that, that is where our parking is, and we have buffering and a certain amount of alleviation from where the building structure is, which you'll see in the plans. And the off-street loading, we do not have loading. We have, again, about 1,000 square feet of retail space, not intended to be destination retail. We do have accommodation for loading within and off the street in the parking area. We don't expect big box trucks for something like this. And then the conformity for the alignment with the visibility around the corner. What is part of this process, we brought the building back six feet more from the intersection to improve the visibility, and again, it's an approved condition from what is there today. Next slide, please. So I took you through the site. This shows you the proposed ground floor. You'll see off-backer street, the existing curb cut that we're utilizing to get into the parking garage, which, again, has 23 spaces that is compliant with zoning. We do not, there's a lot of discussion about whether we have enough parking. We comply, 23 is required. It's 1.5 per residential unit and two for the retail. And that amounts to 23 spaces when you do the calculation. And then again, we're sealing that curb cut-off from the front street. So our only access to the garage will be through Baker, which is the commercial section. Next slide, please. So we begin to take you up. You see the 1186 square feet retail on the left. In the front, this is the also supports the rear yard. The rear yard is toward the right because we're a corner building. So we front on the front street. Next slide, please. So, I'm going to start to show some of the buffering. This would obviously be subject to BPDA design review. We're very mindful of how we can improve and surround the circumstances. Next slide. Everything that they have to do. Next slide, please. As we go up to the upper levels, so there are three levels of residential, which would be the second, the third, and the fourth floor. So you don't have to necessarily go through all these. There are 12 two bedroom units and two one bedroom units. And that is replicated as you go up on each floor. And you'll see Madam, Madam, I've asked her if you go down just a little bit. You'll see there are four two bedroom units and one one bedroom unit on each floor. I'm sorry for three and then 11. So, next, if you keep going down, take you through. We are meeting the open space requirement. If you can continue to go down, these are just, as I said, now I'll show you the perspective. So, we were meeting the open space requirement, which is 50 per square feet per unit. We're in excess of that. And we're doing that by balconies, as well as ground floor. Open space. What's important for the height to height is only three feet off, what's required, but we also are not doing roof decks on the top. Next slide please. And this is the view, sorry, from Baker Street. And you'll see the access to the parking garage. Next slide. This is the view from the rear yard. But I told you about which we need to leave from. And again, my client owns the property that this is essentially looking from. And that rear yard setback is also mitigated by the buffering and the building being squared back towards Vermont, where the existing structure was. Next slide please. Back. Right. Side elevation. There you are. So, this is the corner. You can see we have setback the retail on the ground floor. So, there's improved visibility. And again, we've replaced that curb cut in the unapproved asphalt with buffering and landscaping for our butter on the side on Vermont street. And you can see the building in its context here and also how the top level sets back from the podium. And that also improves the visibility at the corner. Next slide please. Another perspective from. From that side, this is if you're going down from Vermont street, where the curb cut used to be. And I told you about the buffering and again, compliant with that side yard requirement of 12 feet. Next slide please. Aerial perspective from the rear side. You can see the parking underneath the building setback. And you have surface parking that is partially covered and buffered. Next slide. And I think this is this is at Madam Chair. I do have the architect here who can answer any questions. This is a view from across Baker Street. The white. The building that is owned by my client with switcher butts and that rear yard. Again, we front on. Vermont street and then our vehicular access here on Baker with the small retail at the corner. And with that, I'll hand it over back to the board. Thank you. Mask is Mr. Hampton on from BPD. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to ask you to comment on your recommendation because it looks like it assumes that this is 20,000 square feet. Well, our plans are we have originally seen the front page of their plans. Actually said that it was a 20,000 square foot proposal. So I contacted ISD about this and they spoke with the plans examiner. And we were later informed that the revised plans that were going to be submitted to ISD came in under the article 80 threshold. We didn't receive those plans in time to change our recommendation. So what you have in front of us for recommendation of deferral based on what we had is what we are going to submit to the board today. So it is our understanding that they did come under the article 80 threshold. We didn't have enough time to do our review and change your vote. So can the proponent just clarify this? Yes. So, yeah, I mean, our article 80 threshold is 20,000 square feet or more. As Mr. Hampton rightly indicated, this project has been around for a little while. And there have been several iterations. The first iteration which you are seeing is being presented today shows and records the gross square footage of the proposed building at 19,750 square feet. That would, you know, should we have the pleasure of being approved that would be included in the decision and obviously any permitting moving forward. So we think it would be great to work as much as quickly as we could with ISD to make sure that these plans which you see today, we also will have the opportunity because not just with this be subject further design review, but we are also doing two affordable units as a result of the 14 units. So, we are going to have a more dialogue with the BPDA. And as I said, we are excited to deliver a home ownership and complying in uses in a street and quarters in a neighborhood shopping district. And I think that's something that's consistent with the policy of the BPDA. So we look forward to continuing. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair. Yes. Mr. Domingo from BPDA, have you made a comment? I don't know if he's with us in there. Mr. Domingo, are you on? No, I didn't. The comment was that the applicant should consider a parking design placing the spaces on a 60 degree angle. Yeah, I can comment on that. Yeah, Lucia of Trabuco is the architect is on, but certainly that is something that we can do in design review again. We are complying with the allotment of required parking spaces. We do have that flexibility for that to work through that. Can you speak to the affordability area meeting income for those two affordable units that you're. So, you know, as you know, this is a home ownership support. You're not seeing a lot of home ownership because of the current market. But what the current IDP requires is a unit at 80% and a unit at 100%, which sort of addresses the need for middle class home ownership in a neighborhood that. You know, has had a strong middle class. And so we have three one bedrooms and 11 two bedrooms. So that would break down with the one two bedroom affordable and one one bedroom affordable, which we'd be working through the DPDA process with. And it's a 50 year deed restriction. Thank you. How many three bedrooms do you have? No, three bedrooms there. Just ones and twos. Yeah. Yeah, mostly two. And just to clarify, you're saying that one would be affordable 80% and one at 120%. The requirement. Yep. And as you know, for home ownership, it's, it's a little bit higher than the rental restriction and they haven't. Yeah, we're familiar with that. Yes, ma'am. Okay. I have a question, ma'am. Sure. Yes. One of the concerns I saw was about visibility in the corner of Vermont in Baker. There is a, for what I know, there is a post stop right there on Vermont in that corner. And so the question is, is there anything you can do to improve visibility on that corner? Can you make a call on the corner, like a 45 degree call to increase visibility for visibility and efficiency and vehicles? Yeah, so thank you, Mr. Valencia. I'm going to ask Lucia of Tripura. Yeah. Is this one of the things that we heard in the community process, made two meetings with the Westfrox Greenamut Council. Yeah. Turn to a second one with some improvements. So Lucia, do you want to speak to that? Can you hear me? Hello? Yeah. Oh, sorry. I just wanted to make sure I wasn't sure. You're going to. Yes. We had, if you see the latest proposal as we went to the Westfrox Greenamut Council, we did get back that corner to a lot more visibility at the bus stop. The bus stop is on the opposite side of this building. So we did get it back by about six by nine. So if you see the under entering, it's basically on the left hand side. That corner is basically, it's pretty much gone. So there'll be more visibility than there is actually now. Yeah, there's such a question. They don't emphasize that. I can difference it all out. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam, I'm trying to have a question if Mr. Valencia has done with his questions. Yeah. Thank you. So I'm trying to reconcile the planting plan or what screening will be provided for this site. To me, the architectural plans indicate so I have a more ambitious plan than I think the survey has room for. Can we take a look at those two just to see. Just the way it's illustrated on the architectural. Yeah. And it doesn't look like there's adequate room. So if you see here along the internal lot lines, you know, opposite Baker and Burmón, you know. You can see the building is kind of it has a 12 foot step back, but that parking. It comes pretty close to the lot line in the opposite Baker, but also the parking is pretty much pushed up to the lot line opposite Burmón. So you look at the, it's the retail floor plan. I think it's two slides down. The trees look pretty ambitious for lack of that or can you talk about the screening plan for the parking and this building? Yeah, Lucia, you want to take that? Yeah, I just, that was, I agree with your comment, by the way, but that was proposed with again, the owner of that two family on the right as far. The same on the right as side is the same one is the, is the velvet is this property basically. And one of the things that we discussed is to be able to use some of that area to also introduce some more screening and more, you know, whose trees. That was the idea behind that. You're talking. And on the side, on the side, you have bent because it's 12 feet, 12 feet in the back actually is about 48 in the front. So we do have more room to do some planting on the side setback. So in this way, so I understand the concern mostly for the rear yard, which would be along Baker Street or is, is, you know, that, that single row that we're looking at that goes up. I think it's both just with how far the pavement is pushed out. Yeah, I wanted to just make sure those plantings are successful and adequately screen the site and they've been accounted for. And what is shown here is what it will look like. Yeah, so, so on the side where we are compliant on the side yard, which would be the top at Vermont, you know, we do have that 12 foot setback, right? So that allows for a good spatial distance for, you know, real grading and real depth to have adult trees, especially in place of where that asphalt per cut and parking used to be, if you see in the upper left corner. So we get, you know, back towards the corner, obviously it gets a little tiger. So, you know, what we're looking at is, you know, especially those surface parking spaces. Do we look at a different permeable material for them? You know, apron, if you will, sort of, and then how we can then provide enough space to get mature tree growth, at least for a line there. So, you have flexibility on that side because it's common ownership, right? There is some terra firma that, you know, can be accommodated either by, you know, by East Finer, just cooperation. I've heard you that they're together. So it is something that we're looking forward to having the opportunity to get some guidance from the BPDA and further work with buffering and it is, you know, a component and a required component here. Of the project. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Hearing none, Jessica, we can now take public testimony. Okay. Is that what elected official's offices? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Dan Hudson, the West Rocksbury Liaison, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This project, the seventh neighbor of Maas Street, had, we heard about our meeting August 15. It was then moved to the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council for here in August 23rd. In both meetings, neighbors brought up concerns about height and traffic impacts on the neighborhood in addition to maintenance. As a result of that, the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council opted not to vote and allowed the opponents to come back when they had a design that they felt met the concerns of the council and neighbors. They returned for the October meeting on October 24th with the revised design as Joe stated. Additionally, returned with a shade study to address concerns from neighbors. The result of that vote was a three-to-three tie on the neighborhood council. At this time, we refer the judgment of the board. Okay. Now I'm sorry. Hi, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Can't see it was him from council, maybe it's office. I'm sorry, I just want to go back to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sal with C. Got the button. Okay. Anyone? Anyone else in the testing room here? Go ahead. We can't hear you. You're speaking. Sorry. We'll go to minor and show if you have any next-of-the-be. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, minor, correct. We're sending a car to the senior related board. We're going to support all this break. Okay. And then Vincent? Vincent, I request it on the review. Hey, Vincent, can you hear us? Yes, I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes. Please proceed. I'm a resident of West Rocks, but I have a Richmond Street. And I've attended the meetings and kind of followed the development of this corner. I would point out that when the developer asks for a variance of 50, it's not really three feet. It's 10 feet because if you stick to the 35 foot term requirement in the zoning, you can't build a building at this height. You can only build three floors. So if you, if you grant, well, then you're described as a minimum three feet. You're not really giving three feet. You're giving much more than that. I will also point out that about 400 yards further down the various feet towards Spring Street, there are two developments. One is addressed. There's 12.8 C, the FW Parkway, and the other one is 12.8 B, the FW Parkway. Both of these developments, 12.5 and 15 housing units, and both of them, back up onto Baker Street, opposite Catholic Memorial High School. And the proposal recently submitted and approved by BPDA for 12.8 B, the FW Parkway. One of the conditions is that they will open an access from that site onto Baker Street. So you can expect well and implored traffic. The other year they keep calling mentioning the commercial space at 1100 feet. 1100 feet is, yeah, kind of a living room size. We've seen these projects before, along center street at 12.8, 1789, and 1721, where the same technique is used with the commercial space in the building of 908 square feet. So I went to the various meetings. I didn't hear any of the neighborhood people speaking favor. And I'm watching because we have another project coming on center street that may try and slip under the same three feet variant that these people want to talk. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Erin, do you want to try it? I'm going to sign this right, which audio. Can you hear me now? Yes. Next one. So my name is Erin Lurch. I'm at 366 Vermont Street. So I'm the direct of butter on Vermont Street. Since my home immediately, I'm speaking in opposition to the project as currently proposed. Since I immediately have left the proposed development, there are several issues that uniquely concern me beyond those that are raised by my neighbors, and I'm going to talk about the same thing that I've been doing with many of those concerns as well. First, I have solar panels on my roof, which were quite expensive to install. At the community meeting on October 24th, the developer produced a self-funded study indicating that where he granted the request of 38-foot height variance, there would be no significant difference versus 35-foot. But what this same study showed is that even a 35-foot structure would result in as much as a 50% reduction in available sunlight to my panels during the brightest months of the year. So if construction starts next spring, I will still owe $23,418 for that solar installation, and no compensation has been offered to me to offset that 50% reduction in my solar panels' ability to generate electricity. So I'm very concerned about that, and I agree with the person before me whose name I missed because I was working with my audio, that it's more than just three feet. Because if you were not to grant the three feet, I will result in a much lower building overall. I did have some concerns about the buffer between the property and mine. It looks like there has been some effort to address that. I would just ask that the board holds the developers to the letter of the buffering requirements between this property and mine. And then my understanding coming into this meeting was that the requirement is two parking spaces per residential unit. Maybe it's 1.5, maybe I misunderstood. But either way, honestly, this will inevitably result in the spillover of residents parking onto Vermont Street in front of my house and perhaps extending down the street and onto other side streets, as well as parking for that retail space. Well, it's not a destination retail space. There are people in that parking lot all the time every day. There are folks who stop, the bus drivers stop to get snacks and drinks there. There are people in and out of that store all the time, and the parking for that store is going to spill over onto the surrounding streets. Currently, my street is pretty quiet, despite that bus stop on the other side of the road. And there's no difficulty finding parking, so I'm concerned that if this project goes forward as granted, that's going to change. As you saw in slide three of the presentation, the neighborhood consists almost entirely of one and two story homes. So this is completely out of character with the rest of the neighborhood. It's going to be so much taller and more imposing than any other building in the neighborhood. I want to stress that I'm not objecting in principle to redevelopment at this site. I'm only asking that in considering the developer's proposal, the board ensure the existing character of the neighborhood has maintained. And that I as a adjacent homeowner is not that I don't have face any undue burden. Thank you so much for providing me the opportunity to address the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, should I keep going with testimony? How many more raise hands do you have? Let's go. Let's go. Okay. I'm Andrew. Can you state your name and address and briefly tell us if there's a point of opposition? Yes, hi. My name is Andrew Porter. I live on the land street, which is the street is directly across Baker Street from the proposed development, which is the government looked here for over 40 years. What Andrew said reinforces a lot of what I was going to say. Yes, it's a residential retail space. There are three doors. There are a registry cleaners, air salon and the market. But if 99% single family owns in this project development from the get go has been too big for the neighborhood. The term residential retail shopping area is a little bit misleading to me. It's a real residential area that happens to have a couple of stores. Right. So I've been to the three meetings that we've had for the proposal. We've asked for the proposal to come down at least one story to make a little bit more character with the neighborhood. But we've not I'm not in opposition to development of the area. I just think the building is too big for the area. There are also brought up parking. I'd like to reinforce that point to Durant Street is a dead end street. We have a lot of people using the street to turn around after using one of the retail store stores. There's a lot of little kids on the street. Yeah, there are two MBTA bus lines that I think you could describe Baker Vermont in a water time line that goes up Baker Street. Both in that stop is very like close to development. There's also school buses that your Baker Street consists of. We're really concerned about traffic safety and about parking. The development is taking away a surface lot that the Baker Street cleaners across the street. Customers there use all day long. Also the Baker Street market customers. So when that surface lot goes away, there's no place for customers for the Baker Street cleaners. On the here salon. On the Baker Street market other than two spots to park. And so where they're going to park in and able to just already create and test. And so we're concerned about. And we're not going to be able to build a new ability for this project. Well, we just don't think there's enough parking spaces here. Thank you. Can you wrap up and add any new points please? Can I wrap up? Yeah. I'm happy to wrap up. I just like to represent what neighbors are saying. Yes, we just want to do information. We've for you to build on information. We're hearing already. Thank you. Okay. Well, good. That's good. That's good. Finally, there is some. I'll just say there are some trucks to load on Baker Street. I'm being speaking from my. It's a beer and beer and soda trucks. And those are pretty big. So not small box box truck. So I'll end up there opposition. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. We're going to give us the money. Yes. I live on Chesbro road. Which impacts Baker Street. And I just want to say that I am very much opposed to this. I don't have anything new to bring into the. To offer except for the fact that I've lived here for over 25 years. The traffic on Baker Street has become so congested that it could take me a half an hour to get from my street to. To spring street. And that's not even a quarter of a mile. I don't think. But also the. The architecture of the building is so out of keeping with what the architecture is in the area. And the fact that there will be so many more cars parking around. Even down my street. I don't want to take any more time aboard, but I immediately opposed this project. Thank you. Mr. Hailey, you've heard a lot of feedback from the neighbors. Can you please briefly respond? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. First, I want to thank the neighbors. I believe you had some others maybe on its support too, but we went through a very extensive process here and. Greatly appreciate all the guidance that we received just just in reverse order. It was a lot of concern about things that don't necessarily retain to this. I think that's the case, meaning the size. It's too big. Now, we are FAR compliant. The density is not a zoning issue. We are open space compliant. That is not a zoning issue. And with respect to the height at 38 feet in height. If you look at the context of the area, first of all, it's a mere three feet off from what zoning requires. But we are also a corner lot with an existing mixed use condition. So obviously being at the corner justifies that. And we've set the building back at the top to further mitigate that mere three feet deviation. That three feet deviation also an elevator, which to provide adequate homeownership for sale both affordable and market rate. An elevated building makes a lot of sense. And you take a walk down Baker Street directly across the corner. There is a building that's approved that similar. I think the gentleman who first commented talked about some of the larger rental buildings in the area that are mostly four stories or more. So, you know, considering the need for housing, the appropriateness of the FAR compliance in the open space. We think that the height is reasonable and appropriate both for the area, but also for the site. And so just to speak to Miss Lurch, who we look forward to continuing to work with. She, the property at 366 Vermont Street recently sold within the last year. And when it was on the market, I sent a letter or the client sent a letter to the broker. Notifying them that we're in this process and asking him to notify anyone who might buy that property. And so, it's Miss Lurch indicated. She apparently is the new owner of the air. We did do a shadow study. We're not required to do that. But we did it to show that there was an negligible basically no impact with respect to the height requirement. Now, the reason we looked at the deviation between 35 feet and 38 was because 35 is allowed. And we are compliant. We don't need to set back variants on her side. So, we looked at a 12 foot compliance of 35 versus 38. And there was no change. She is right that if you put a 35 foot building there as allowed at 12 feet back, that, you know, it's a structure that has more than what is there. But we tried to work as much as we could on that. And the study reveals no negligible at best impact from that. And I think just to dovetail on the discussion with Miss Wewell, what we would like to do is work very closely with Miss Lurch, especially on how we buffer and do the landscaping along that compliance side yard with her property. And so, I don't want to take more time, but I think that address is most of it. I will say on parking there was a note. If you look at the code, when you have 10 or more units, the parking requirement in the neighborhood shopping district in the West Roxbury district is 1.5. And again, you multiplied that by 14. And then the requirement for the retail is 2 per thousand. We have a little over a thousand. So you wrote round it up. And that's the 23 spaces. So there was a lot of discussion. And I respect that about parking and traffic. But again, we're not asking for a parking variance. We're merely meeting that requirement. So thank you Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Handley. Other questions from the board? Can you hear, is that hearing none? May I have a motion? I will try a motion with some provisos. So I approval with three provisos that there be two affordable units, one at 80% at two bedroom and a one bedroom at 120% of being an income. A BPD a design review with special attention to the landscape plan, adequate screening and buffering and permable pavement. And the third that the gross square feet not exceed 19,750 square feet. Okay. Is there a second? Excuse me Madam Chair. For the affordable units. Board member Jean, can we include that to need to be recorded through NOH? Yes. An agreement with NOH to ensure that there be two units, one at 80% to bedroom, one at 120% of one bedroom. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a second? Yes. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wielow. Yes. Ms. McGall. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. Ms. Lowe. Yes. There are also votes. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, members. The board. Thank you Madam Chair. Next case is case B.O.A. 153-7860. With the address of 6 Delmoor Road is the applicant and with the representative president who is applying to the board. Yes. The morning Madam Chair, members of the board. I am Robert Nichols, real estate developer, builder. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. I am the director of the board. The setting of the board. the setting of the board. Let's get back to it. It's the setting of the board. The setting of the board. we did a public depends on one side and we didράoosit back. The recid are split out in aacey club, Panchai. The sets of 갑자기 graffiti Was ince Bow from the body. The set of collision. She cleansed the face. And then we met with the Jamaica Plain neighborhood zoning committee, neighborhood council, excuse me, and there's only committee. And we did get a little support from them. We got a letter of support from the 331 High Park Gava Butter. And we didn't have any opposition as we finalized our process and presenting this project to the community. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? You're in 9 May of public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, calling our new and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time, mayor's also deferred to the judge for this board. On my colleagues, Madam Chair, I want to back information on the the butter's process to the personnel changes, but can confirm with the applicant's act that the JPMC voted to support this proposal without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I have no additional raise hands. Okay. That I have motion. Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion for approval with the BBA review, especially attention to improve the landscape plan. May I have a second? Oh, second, but can I add another provider that they maintain that 10 foot set back from the neighbor? We don't have those plans in front of us, so I just want to make sure what was presented is reflected. I agree with that. Okay. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Willow. Yes. Ms. Mukheral. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. I'll go get a good one on that. All right, are you done Mr. Stemberg? Okay. Please proceed. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is James Christopher. I'm a 686 Architects with the Business Address of 1156, George S. R. App. I'm here today on behalf of Luke Maranacci and Sarah Baker, the owners of 26 Rowena Street. The project that was proposed before you was to create a new curve cut on Bushnell Street to create two off-street parking spaces. The violation is off-street parking located in the front yard. This parking is not located in the front yard. It is to the rear third of the building. The curve cut would allow for the off-street parking to be a goal, which would primarily serve 24 hour traveling nurses, which attend to Sarah's mother lives in an ADU unit in the basement. She has some chronic medical care issues. And that's the precipice of this project. We laid out the property so that the parking and the airing was very minimal and that we were able to maintain the rear yard out to a space, which the owners use and which the healthcare workers who reviewed this property for Sarah's family agreed should be maintained. So that's it. It's a 25 foot curve cut, one full size, one compact vehicle. We held in a butter's meeting. Few of butter's attended. There was no opposition. We went to the Ashwood Adam Civic Group. The project was well received. I did not receive notification of a vote one way or the other. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I call the testimony? Yes, good morning Madam Chair. Madam was the board. My name is Ross Cawker. I'm with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, we'd like to defer to the judgment of the board and some background on this proposal. We had an up-butters meeting this summer of this year. At that up-butters meeting, there was three people that were in support of this project, zero opposed. And I have no letter of support or opposition from the Civic Association on file. At this time, we'd like to defer the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, Madam Chair, I had no additional lay stance. Thank you. Okay, if there are no other questions from the board, may I have a motion? I will put forward a motion. I will approve all. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Lula. Yes. Ms. Muccajlan. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Lula. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. It's time. Next, we have case B.O.A. 153, 0337. Would the address of 148 Washington Street is the applicant and the other person in front of the group. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stumbridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. It was the board of the Attorney Jeff Trego with Trego and Tuscano with the business address of 11 B.C.E. Here on behalf of the applicant's Garrett Hogan and Max Taylor from On Point. The project and this is a good rendering to see. The project is proposed as to confirm the occupancy as a three-unit building, which it has been used for from everything we can see. It's assessed as a three and then laid out as a three. There was just no CO of record as a three or any other CO. And then it's to construct a third story, rear addition only with rear decks and an exclusive roof deck on top access to the air hatch. This will also include a full renovation both to the interior but also a historic renovation to the exterior of the building, which as you can see from the rendering and looking at the existing site pictures definitely needs it. Here's all final siding and we worked extensively with the Eagle Hill Civic Association on the historic renovation of the building. It's been took their comments just to go over the layout and floor plan of the building. And if you actually go to the next slide and have a faster, it'll just show a rear review. If you go to one more slide. Yeah, this is a good picture. So as you can see, there's already up and down on that street a number of rear additions. The yellow arrow indicates our building and you can see there already exists a two level addition in the rear or the building already goes back. If we're proposing just to infill that back, which would give the unit a little bit of extra space. These are going to be condominium units. Propose it would give it a little over 400 square feet making the unit sort of match. So right now the proposed units were all be two bedrooms, 1026 square foot in unit one, which is existing 1048 in unit two, two bedroom, which is existing. And then the third floor, so right now it's 665 square feet, so it's tight. And this would allow it to be a two bedroom at a 1028 square feet. And this unit would have the roof deck, which we pulled back 11 feet, two inches set back from the front of the building. So it's not really visible from the sidewalk would be in the center. And as I had mentioned, it's 155 square feet and it's accessed only by hash. We were also proposing to add three rear decks on back, which are open air decks. And just to go over the violations that were mentioned. So the FAR and the current building is 1.4. With the addition, we're slightly on upper proposed at 1.6. The rear yard, as it exists now, is 37 feet, seven inches. And because of those decks, there are seven foot seven inches in the back. That would bring the rear set back. This will be maintaining 30, but 40 would be required. But the building already has the addition on the first and second floor. We're well over the usable open space and we're not able, because we are keeping the building, to create any parking, but we're short distance to the blue line, to airport and what island stage. And so with that, I can pause and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you, Mr. Drago. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none may have bothered this morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Meanwhile, the vehicle is with the mayor's office of New Board of Services. The UNS hosted an uproar's meeting for the project on September 26th of 2023. No butters are present on the call. The applicant met with the Eagle Hill Neighborhood Association in September and October of 2023 and the group voted to support the project with the unanimous vote of 17 in favor. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. So, morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, the bachelor of our concert, the latest office. And as Madam said, in the meeting, we're in support of this project, it's in very any opposition and for that reason, the council went to go and support the project as well. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, I've got a Larry and then Max. Hi, so my question to, on this project is, is the footwork in the yard staying the same on the next door neighbor? So is the footwork in the yard the exact same? Are you speaking in support of our position or do you just have that question? Well, up to you, Mr. Gagof, you want to respond? I'd be happy to respond. So the building footprint is staying the same. We're just in filling to the existing line in the rear. The only change would be open-eared decks in the back. So those decks would go out about seven feet. So the rear setback, which is the open-eared decks, would go down by about seven feet. But there would be no building massing change. Thank you. Any other, any other raised hands? No. Okay. With no other questions from the board, may I have a motion? Motion approved. Will be the same. Radio. May I have a second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Miss Willow? Yes. Miss Macau? Yes. Miss Canado? Yes. Miss Lowe? Yes. Chair also, let's ask motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have two companion cases. First being, it is BOA 146-6913, with the address of 38 Washington Street. Along with that, we have BOA 146-6908, with the same address of 38 Washington Street. Is the applicant and will they represent the person through the point? Yes, further. Thank you. Miss Christine? Yes. My name is Ian Roudrie. My name is White and I are the owners of 38 Washington Street Unit 4, and our proposal is to add an exclusive use roof deck to the top of the building. The plans are provided here. You can just see where the building is. This is, if we're already in street to very in street, I'm asking street on a dark way, is the profile of our roof. We can go to the next page. Here is just looking at top view of the lot in the proposed roof deck area, which would be a two hour unit. I think it goes to the next view. These are interior plans that will be done on any unit in the building, which is four units. Next page, we've shows the profile of the proposed roof deck, which would be space that's used both for a five hour area as well as just to go out to our space. This is the space that we're looking at, this profile of the proposal. It's top view of the front of the building where you can see the roof deck would be added, which is some kind of thing. The right side shows how, although the roof deck would be accessed, which would be the other rear staircase. In this box, we would add a one-hole to the staircase, and we would also put a door that would restrict access to the roof of the open front above the closed floor below. That way would be a private roof deck space. And then the right side bottom, you can just see the profile again. I wouldn't call it as it's aware the roof deck extends, which is right around. So the middle of that window area, because that came up during our community process about whether I would be able to see it from the streets. I think we concluded that it would have very many impact in view from the street, but we can go on to the next. Who would you? Here are just sort of almond plants, again, about what the roof deck structure would be, but again, no work would be done on the interior. But I think we can go to the end if there's any more views of the deck. This is a current plants as compared to the proposed plants, so it really would just be in addition to the rear staircase and the addition of the fancy up the roof as well as the door to make it a private roof deck. So the variance of the worst seeking were two zoning variances. One is alteration of roof structure, another is a side yard, an exhibition, an area of the side yard, the dimensions are changing, and then the building variances were seeking. I believe that we mitigated by adding a door that is close to the bottom and open from the top, that creates a private roof deck with one rather egress. I think we'll put that in that way. Thanks for the questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Can we get Mr. Hampton to talk about the BPA's recommendation? Thank you Mr. Pagato. Mr. Hampton, BPA, we're not opposed so much to the roof deck. It's the size of the roof deck in the access by the stairs. I think if the roof deck, if the board would or through the roof deck, we would ask for substantial design review to mitigate, minimize the size of the roof deck. This building is taller than the abutting building so you would be able to see what they have to pose not from the side. So we would just ask for design review if the board would approve it, but we were opposed to the size of the deck. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that be a public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Malabia Gomez with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, a nice host sitting at a butter's meeting for this project on September 20th of 2023. No butter's represent on the call. That applicant then met with the Eagle Hill Neighborhood Association and the group voted in favor of the roof deck with 14 and 3rd and 3 against the project. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reasons? And no matter if I have no additional questions against. Okay. If there are no other questions from the board, may I have a motion? I'll think of motion to approve with the BPDD design review with special attention to both the size of the roof deck and the position of the rear stairs. Is there a second? Back in. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. Ms. McGall. Yes. Ms. Conato. Yes. Ms. Luke. Yes. Sure. Also, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Before we move to the next case is the third. So we're going further. We will ask at this point if there are any. With request for withdrawals or deferrals from the 11 block out. Yes. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is attorney. I'm at 820 Hyde Park. Ab. ERT 1456052. What's the name? It's a 20 Hyde Park. Ab. That's actually here. That's an 1130. That's an 1130. We're asking about the cost. I apologize. No problem. That's okay. So with that, we will then move into the 11 block hearings. And of course, will be case B.O.A. 1527826. With the address of 30 mil-dread avenue. Is the applicant and or the representative from 2.2 board. Yes. I am Mr. Secretary. Good morning, attorney. Medical from Fletcher-Tilton with the business address of one Franklin street. These are companion cases. Apologies. I'm not sure if you noted the second one is 30 and 34 mil-dread. Just for the record. Thank you for pointing that out. That will also be case B.O.A. 154 0077 with the address of 34 mil-dread avenue. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of board. Once again, Matt. Echo from Fletcher-Tilton with the business address of 100 Franklin street. Also joining me this morning are Duane Boyce and Adler Vernon from North Hope Design and Construction. The project proponents. Chris Drew from 686 architects. The project architect. Peter Bound from the trustees of reservations. Stephanie Silver from the mayor's office of housing. As I mentioned, these are companion cases. We are seeking to erect a new residential building with six affordable home ownership units. Four parking spaces. One of the applications. This will create three affordable units at 80% AMI and three affordable units at 100% AMI. Our second application is we are seeking to create a community garden at the adjacent lot. Currently, this site contains four vacant lots. We are proposing to combine two of the lots to be known as 30 mil-dread. That will house the residential units and combine the remaining two units to be known as 34 mil-dread, which will contain the community garden. Both of these lots, when combined, will contain just over 7,000 square feet. You can see here a picture of the existing conditions there on your bottom left. That's a diagonal picture looking down. You can see the little light fence in front of the four vacant parcels. The triple vecker immediately to our left is representative of most of the residential housing along the street. Most of those lots are about 3500 square feet and contain existing three family structures. We are right across the street from the mill-dread, ab, K through eight school. As you can see there on the bottom right visual, you can see highlighted red, R4, subject, lots, and the school across the street. In terms of the residential building, again, it's a total of six units. Three would be two better units and three would be three better units. We're proposing two units per floor. Unit one and two will both be accessible. We are proposing a ramp, as you can kind of see there, just on the top left of the screen, going from right to left along the parcel. To make those units accessible and we'll also have stairs right in the front, as you can see. The units will range in size between 860 and 120 square feet and each will have a dedicated rear deck for private, useful open space. As we move through the plans, the community garden itself, we're finalizing details on the exact design. However, it will be posed to have a small tool shed, numerous garden beds, and water access to care for the garden and plantings. In terms of the violations for 30 mill-dread, which once again is the residential building, it is a three-family zone. We're proposing six units, one multi-family residential. However, as mentioned, the 7,000 square foot lot is very similar in density to the three unit buildings surrounding us on about half that lot size. To go along with that, we are proposing a .93 floor area ratio when .8 is allowed. Use of a open space requires to have 600 square feet curved dwelling unit. We are proposing 3,212 total square feet, so we're a little bit short of the 3600 required. The front yard requirement is 10 feet. We are proposing 5. The rear yard with the shell lot exception, we're required a 24 foot rear yard setback. We're proposing between an 11.5 and 15.5 rear yard. The community garden itself did get cited as a forbidden use. It is important, I think, to note it's not forbidden because it was contemplated within the code as being not allowed. It was forbidden because it's not listed at all. The community garden use is not listed in the code and when that occurs, it automatically becomes forbidden. Just for the record, we did go through an extensive community process both in regards to the RFP when it issued, as well as through the zoning process. We were able to obtain and submit letters of support from the Great Immatom and Neighborhood Council, as well as City Council as a Royo and WRL through this project. At this point, I will pause and happily take any questions from the board. Thank you, Mr. Echo. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, the corner, and even with the Mayor's Office Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor is also to defer to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the applicant's representation, ONS conducted a butters meeting held on November 2nd. The applicant then went on to meet with the Greater Matter and Neighborhood Council, which was in support of this proposal. So far, we have zero butters of opposition, without deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Is that a housing? Good morning, Chair, members of the board, joining the Council of the Carter Royals office. I'm speaking support of the broadest policies I've spoken before someone. But, yeah, thank you. Are you fine? Yeah, I'm pretty sure you're good. Mayor's Office, how's the committee? Let's keep the matter of Chair, members of the board. My name is Alvisso, and I am in the office of the Mayor's Office of Housing. We support this project and have been working with the team since the designation. That's the elder of this video. Our son's earlier this year. Team is designated based on a response to an article being released by M.O.H. requesting the development of this site for affordable housing and an adjacent community garden. We will continue to work with the team as they continue progress towards the construction and conveyance. Thank you. I remember the board, Paul Sawdust, and Councilman McVarney, and comes to work with us. And in the amount of time, no raised hands. Thank you. Thank you. If there are other questions, I'm sorry. Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Teresa Strachilla. I'm a program manager for the City of Boston's Broad Boston Office of Urban Agriculture. Part of the Mayor's Office of Housing. Broad Boston supports the project and has been working with the team since their designation has developed. This is the city of New York City City on parcels earlier this year. After a community process that resulted in strong support for a community garden at this site, M.O.H. released in RFP for the development of affordable housing and a community garden and selected this development team. We will continue to work with the team as they progress towards conveyance of these parcels and construction of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Yes. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Rilal. Yes. Ms. Mucahal. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. Charles Avalto. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, Madam Chair and members of the board. At this point, now we will jump ahead to the, to the previous session. If you're ready, one thirty, and ask if there are any request for the draws of the bill. Yes. One sixteen nine Maverick Street. Excuse me. I will ask. The last case, Mrs. Demberg. Thank you, Madam Chair. And that would be case B.O.H. We will go away. One four seven five nine five three. The address of one sixty nine Maverick Street. Would you explain your request? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Learning, Skatino from Richard Lings' office. I'm with an address of two forty five Summers Street. We're just requesting a short referral on this. We may have the building code issue worked out. We're just waiting on the final inspection. Madam Chair, it's the first day I would suggest February 6, 2020. Okay, so is that work with applicant? Yes, thank you. Okay, without me, I have a motion. Motion to approve, period already six twenty twenty four. Is there a second? Back out. Mr. Demberg. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. This we will. Yes. This we will. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. This is Luke. Yes. Sure, also, it's yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Demberg, ten times in square place. And that's the case. Be away. One three zero. Four four three three. The address of ten times square. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is George Mariam. I'm the attorney of the business address of 350 West Broadway. In South Boston, Madam Chair, several weeks ago when I requested this to Pearl, I was at the time looking forward to date in February of 2024. If you recall, the calendar had not been set. I would like to request that it possible that it deferred to February 6th in this marriage will allow for continued community process. Over here? Yes, Madam Chair. That's it. Okay. What's that? May I have a motion? Motion to defer to February of 2024. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stemberg? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Is we low? Yes. Mr. McCollum? Yes. Mr. Bernado? Yes. Mr. Lowell? Yes. Mr. Lowell? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. 20 high park ads, please. Okay. That would be case B.O.A. 147. 3-9-4-1 with the address of 8-20 high park ads. Do I have to explain to you? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board of Attorney John Barry on behalf of the owners here with an office address of the Limit 54 Limit 36 Torchester app. There was a slight revision to this project lowering units and adding parking that was provided to ISD roughly two weeks ago. I noticed the set that was stamped was actually the original set that was filed and not the revision set. That said, I believe the board has the rocks in front of them that was reviewed for today's hearing. And I think this needs to be clarified in order so that we can intelligently move forward with the controls. I think the board has the old set in front of them. That's what was stamped. Okay. How are you? I'm Chair February 6, 2024. Mr. Barry? That's perfect. Okay. Would that be a motion? Motion to defer to February 6, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Lee Wong. Yes. Ms. McGon. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Ms. Louge. Yes. Chair also. Yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you, Madam Chair. I was the board. Now we'll get through a number of questions. Then we'll return to the hearing scheduled for 11 a.m. We have two companion cases. The first being case B.O.A. 1415566 with the address of 22 Tori Street. Along with that, we have case B.O.A. 1415562 with the address of 26 Tori Street. Is the applicant present to explain? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy, Business Andrews of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the owner in a stashu Batista, as well as James Christopher from 686 architects. This is a proposal to subdivide the law. Madam Chair, I apologize for the change. Spitz, I'll just notify this has to be deferred because of an updated refusal letter. We do have the updated refusal letter that was provided to us on November 22, 2023. If the plans in front of you are not accurate because I didn't notice that the advertisement here is for the seven units, the revised plans which we were sent over, revised refusal letters for both apostles on November 22 and reflect five units. If that is not what the board has in front of them today, then we would have to defer. If the board does have the proposal in front of them for the five units, we would like to move forward with the hearing. I was notified by staff that they do not have it, so that we will need to defer for this one. Okay. Do you have a date for Mr. Spitz? We can do January 23 for this one. And that will be the last January hearing date for deferral. Mr. Spitz, does that work? It will make it work. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience. Would that mean I have a motion? Motion to defer to January 23, 2024. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. McCauhall. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Great. Thank you. Next we have case B08152-5904. With the address of 21-1 word street. If the applicant can or their representative presence of financial work. I can raise your hand if you are on this proposal. I will see any raised hands. I will give one of the seven of our non-unit stingy cards. Yes, Jessica. Thank you. Let me thank you at the end of us one second. Thank you. And you will just have to unmute yourself again once you become a panelist. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval with provisos that plans with BPDA designer view of the attention to pedestrian accessibility and that the MBTA confirms compliance with TOD policies and guidelines and that the relocated MBTA easement is approved. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stoveridge. Thank you. Mr. Stoveridge. Mr. Valencia. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr.<|tl|><|en|> Mr. Macahal. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Ms. Loeg. Yes. Mr. Cheyrassevots. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much, everyone. Next, we have case B, 1, 5, 1, 8, 5, 4, 0. The address of 9 Elton Street. The average represent in front. Please explain case of work. Hi, I want to tell you. Yes, did it. Can you hear me? Yes, yes sir. OK. Owen Thomas here, Owen Thomas Architects, here to present for the owners. What we're proposing today, a rear deck, in set into the existing refline of the single family home. As you can see on the picture on the upper right there, there's kind of a large angled refline. And then on the lower left is the missing rear bay. We're proposing to put a new deck aligned with the footprint of the existing rear bay. So there's no change in building footprint. And the deck is in set into the roof. If you can scroll down to the next sheet. So the dark gray area shows the area of the new roof deck. Again, this is the exterior profile is aligned with the existing footprint of the rear bay. So we're not increasing the rear set back at all and continue down. These are just the lower level plans. There's no changes to the lower level. And so this is the third floor that shows the new deck on the right. That's the rear that we are building over the existing rear bay. And we're also reconfiguring the third floor to include a bedroom and a new bathroom. But no other exterior changes outside of the deck. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, your morning, Madam Chairman, Mr. Board of Oz, Cocker, and Mayor's Office of the Embroidered Services. The applicant has pointed their community process at this time. Our office held in Burr's meeting on October 12 this year, where there was, I believe, three or four of the letters that were in support of this project. The Civic Association has submitted a letter that is on file, the Planning Committee, and the General Leadership, both support this project. At this time, I'd like to defer to the sports judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McHatman, City Council, Frank Bing is office who late to go on record in support. Thank you. Hey, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Would that may I have a motion? Motion to approve. May I have a second? That is. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Rilong. Yes. Ms. Wukahaw. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. Loweke. Yes. Chair Osivos. Yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have a case theory. 152, 123, 0. With the address of 14 Emerson Street, is the ask and no, they represent the present to which point? Yes, this is his hand here. Oh, just a little bit. Scott, I'm going to make your panelists once you are panelists. Please unmute yourself. We can't hear if you're speaking. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. And thanks for your time. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. Scott Baranowski here with my wife, Emla. And we are the applicants. Great. Please proceed. Yep. So I can actually walk us through a little bit. But I just wanted to bring to everyone's attention before we get started. There wasn't an error. It looks like, under the purpose, it does mention that we're adding a roof deck. We're actually not adding a roof deck. This is actually taking place the addition that we're looking to do and taking place on our roof deck. We're pretty much taking away about 400 square feet of our current roof deck. So just to kind of set that standard before we get more forward. So you can see our property here if you want to keep scrolling. So there's our house right around the left, the blue single family. Keep going. So the next two pages are just going to be our interior space. Now, oops, sorry, not that page. Yeah. No, keep going. Where do I have to go? Yeah, keep going. I think I'm on page four here. Yeah, those are up to the plans that I some look where are we here. Go back. OK, so yeah, if you want to go back to where the head house is, sorry, page. Keep going. Yeah, right there. I can talk to that when that's fine. So yes, roll down one more. It was where it said the head house. The other one? Yes, sorry, the other one. Right. Yes, yes. So where it says head house, that's currently our space now. And the entire space, others on head house, is a giant roof deck. And what we're looking to do is kind of add that open living space to the right there. With a little hallway to get from the head house to that open living space. And then we will continue to use the part of our roof as a roof deck. So you'd be enclosing the part that's on the right, that's coming part of the roof deck. Correct. It's currently up a roof deck and we're enclosing it, correct? OK. Any other slides you want to walk us through? Or is that? I don't think so. Your whole rest of the space is not being touched. So. OK, awesome. Any questions from the board? Hearing none? Man, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, the corner, new and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office is to defer to the judgment as board. Our office is unaware of any letters for support or an opposition. The applicant went to meet with the gate of having a board association, which expressed that they had no issues or concerns with this proposal without defer to the board. Thank you. So what do you want? Mr. Members, staffs, the Guarana Calderon from Council President Flynn's Office. The council would like to go on recurring support based on a good community process with the neighbors and positive feedback at the abouters meeting. Moreover, that the sedation on space is not an improve deck, and the additional inclusivity in the space will accommodate your own family in the community. Thank you. And the members of the board, Paul Solid, the Council of Last Michael Flare, I go in the comments, Council President Flynn's Office, as well as acknowledging the community of the wing to the applicant out of the 68. Council just feel that this is a good product with this one that is required to go on recurring support. I'm trying to have the additional based hands. Thank you. Mayor, have a motion? Motion, I would make a motion for approval with the BDA and review. Is there a second? Mr. Stembridge? Yeah. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Wu-Wong? Yes. Ms. Nukau? Yes? Ms. Panato? Yes. Ms. Logan? Yes. And Chair also, what's your motion carries? Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have a case BOA. Sorry, Mr. Stembridge, just want to announce we are now a six member board. Please proceed. Thank you, Mayor Chair. We have an X-list case BOA, 154-2503, with the address of 118 B Street. This is also an article of any case. Mr. Moranse? Who? Mr. Panse? Who? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning. Again, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Moranse on Attorney. The business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Dunmo Group, LLC, and its principal, Charles Karthie, who is here. Project architect, Pym Johnson, is also here. This proposed project consists of a new five-story residential building situated at 118 B Street in South Boston's St. Vincent neighborhood. Project site is 12,367 square feet. The parcel is currently occupied by a 1-3-story commercial building with service parking. By client proposes a new building of 33 residential condominium units with 26 accessory garage parking spaces and secure interior storage for 33 bicycles. There will be six IDP home ownership units, providing 18% affordability with three units at 100% AMI and three units at 80% AMI. This is an article 80 small project. And during the course of the 10th month BBA community review of the building, the project, I should say, the building was reduced and hide and massing with significant top floor setbacks on the public street that are facing residential sites of the site, as well as reduction in the massing of the building. Those to be more consistent wouldn't surrounding neighborhood, particularly in respect to the site's proximity to polarity properties located directly across East Third Street. Increased zoning compliance setbacks at the property line on East Street and the property line on West Third Street will allow for planning of five new street trees associated project also from creation of wider sidewalks to enhance the pedestrian experience adjacent to the site. Additionally, Mike Cland will be funding new curb cut extensions and crosswalks at B Street in West Third Street, which will allow for safer pedestrian access, advancing a T-Gull EVD recommendation note for the self-crossed and transportation access plan. The zoning designation for this site is multi-family residential MFB. The MFB district and Article 68 proposed project is a boughtestly taller dancer than what is allowed by zoning, which is appropriate for experienced oriented location, which is just about a third mile from the MBPA's Broadway Rapid Transition on the red line. Zoning relief is required for minimum log size for the very three proposed units. Law area ratio, which is approximately 3.1, whereas two point dose allowed by code, building height, which is 50 feet versus 40 feet allowed by code, minimum usable open space, the project provides 97 square feet, allowing you the neighborhood was concerned about roof decks, which could have allowed for more of a space, but there are frequently neighborhood concerns always to potential noise migrations from roof decks. Zoning relief is also required for the insufficient area, I've checked that, but I would point out that to the rear of this building is the wide extent of the self-crossed and awkward. And finally, and as previously mentioned, knowing through its proximity to Broadway station, it provided all street parking in 26 spaces, but at 33 units also requires a parent. All of these zoning relief being requested was thoroughly reviewed by the BDDA during the article, a lady called the process, and was deemed appropriate on the planning standpoint, as reflected in the BDDA's board vote on October 13th of this year to exclude the project and to recommend it to board repeal grant the requested zoning relief. That all bars and take any questions that board members may have. Thank you, Mr. Rancy. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, upon our new mayor's office of the neighborhood services, his time mayor's office looks at deferred to the judgment of this board. As you're from the out of consultation, this one through the robust BPD led community process, understand that many residents were pleased with 17% affordability, as well as that these would be condominiums, people are eager to have more home ownership opportunities in the neighborhood. The applicant received support from the St. Vincent Savor Association, as well as the West Broadway Civic. We do not have any letters on file, we've those reported to the BBA, and they provide this to the board. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Chair have no regrets. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Annakal Delon from Council President Flink Saufsys. The councilor would like to go and record support on this proposal. There was a work set, there were several of these issues, I'm Annakal, the development team worked to make with both the Civic Group and community requests on various issues, by lowering the high on these three, removing growth text, reducing the unit income from 7 to 33, converting from rental to home ownership units, increasing the affordable IDP units to 17% and maintaining parking spaces at 26, and adjusted the faculty to maintain the character of the community. The six affordable IDP units, including a three-bed from unit, will also add to our city, Moch Nide affordable housing stock and help working families remain in Boston. This project also offers a reasonable amount of parking on-site, which help with support of neighbors to tour existing parking crisis. Due to this, I would like to go and record support. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to go and solve it for City Council Act to make a flaring. Equalance and municipal government for its office, acknowledging the relocation to the African-American 16 Council where they're going to record support. Thank you. Bye, Annakal. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Herman. See, Flaredy? I don't understand. Any other questions from the board? Manager, there were comments from the disability commission about the budget. Okay, do you want to read it into the record and give us a little bit? From the elevation, it does not appear that all entrances are accessible. Several entrances appear to have steps going into the building. For new construction, all entrances should be accessible. We'll be coming. I'll be coming. Yes, Madam Chair. I will have Tim Johnson speak to it, but I will first assure that the building will be all accessibility requirements. I'm not sure exactly what's being referred to in the letter, but Tim Johnson may have a better idea. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Tim Johnson, Project Architect. It could have been an older duration, perhaps that they saw where the model, the 3D model, was placed in properly on the terrain. But no, I assure you that all entrances will be handicapped accessible. We have an elevator service in all floors to make all units handicapped adaptable. So no, we're very focused on making sure this is a total accessible building, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other comments or questions from the board? Would that may have a motion? I'm sorry, is Mr. Flierty trying to speak on this matter from this firety? Hello, can you hand me? Yes, are you speaking on specific? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my call is not utilizing the jedeerel system of any kind , it very strange thank you, that would be accurate, thank you, what that way motion, that motion, that motion, that motion, tha a shout , Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Rue Rob. Yes. Ms. McGau. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. And before we proceed, just a reminder, as a six member applicants are entitled to an administrative deferral, should you wish to request one, Mr. Svemberg? Yes, Madam Chair. Next is Chase B.O.A. 153-5255, with the address of 50 Trinnell Street, with the applicant and with their representative current judgements. Brian. You want to make it? OK, so I'm here myself. Hello? Are you believe me? Are you? Yes, I will. Can we hang up for the phone? Hello? Yes, you sound great. Thank you. Please proceed. Can you hear us? Hello, does anybody hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Can you hear us? I think he's having technical problems. OK, well, we can hear you, but it sounds like you cannot hear us. Hello? Jessica, do you want to suggest, I don't know if you should be looking. OK, look, go ahead. We can hear you now. We can hear him the whole time. The question is, can you hear us? It doesn't sound like you can hear us. Are you going to hear us, Brian? Can you, because you're... Is he my picture? He can't hear us. Shoot, what do I do? You want to do a device earlier where you want to call? To the children's bars. OK, so this is Sean Raymond de Mizz office. He actually called me earlier. He could not hear us on the video record. Obviously, he can hear you guys. Yeah, I don't know how you want to handle this. I don't know if Sean, you want to try to help him? Maybe... I have his phone number, I can call him. Or maybe... Manager, I would suggest we take a 10 minute break. Yeah, so we can talk with that. And sadly, this is the last one for the 11 am's. OK. Yeah, I'll do that. Let's take a 10 minute break. Recording stopped. Hey, Brian. I can't hear anything on here. Are they able to hear? Yeah, I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can't hear anything on here. I can not hear anything on here. Again, let's make Friday. twepex- please be free. Okay, so let's do a roll call. Mr. cathran rich and Mr. coulise me as i miss Michelle cc miss Michelle cc miss Michelle cc miss Michelle cc mesmo Next we have case B.O.A. 1535255 with the address of 50 terminal schools. Brian, it's all yours. Thank you very much. I'm really sorry about the inconvenience. Everything worked perfectly until I've pretty much up to bat. I'm Brian, Brian, too. I own the baking truck, baked gap egg. And I'm just looking to continue the SaaS quo, having the restaurant open and being able to stock our food trucks and build them out. And then to do private parties and that sort of thing. This may go on for seven years. I'm just writing the desk quo, able to continue. So that makes sense. I promise I don't really know the procedures here. You're fine. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, maybe we'll public testimony. I know you're doing double duty, Sean. So yeah, I appreciate it. One moment. All right, Madam Chairman, this is the board. Sean Green here with the mayor's office and the board's services. And the board's meeting was held 50 terminal street in November. Since that time, this office received zero letters and opposition and zero support. With that, we defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. I miss the defi. You were going to give testimony. I'm going to face. Hi. You're one of you, but we can't hear you. Hello, what was the question? No, when you had a good testimony on this proposal, I see your hand raised. It's not a question for that. Okay. I know it. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Motion, proper. May I have a second? No. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Rui-Low. Yes. Ms. Mukahal. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. Sure, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Next move on to the weekly sessions. The schedule for 1130 a.m. First case is BOA 151. 6206. Yes. Yes. Please proceed. Okay. I'm just requesting to be able to put a driveway on the right side of my house. I'm not sure if you can see the plan there. Is there any slide that you want Ms. Ambassador to turn to? This is the only slide that's available. Okay. Well, is there anything else about the slide you want to highlight? With the car or anything? Well, and my, my question is for our car cuts. I can just put a driveway on the side to be able to park a couple of cars on the side of the house. Okay. Questions from the board? Hearing not, ma'am, public testimony? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chairmen. I'm Mr. Board of the right. Mendozaal. I'm Mike Lee. I'm from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services here. She did receive one letter of opposition from a resident of Holman Street to this project. Other than that, we're not aware of any other community feedback on this. The proponent did go present to the Elson, some association who did provide a letter of support for the project. That said, we would like to defer to the judgment of this board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no a waste hands. Okay. Hearing no questions from the board, ma'am, a motion? Madam Chair, I was the one who voted denial on the subcommittee. I would again move for denial, just staying consistent with the BPD recommendation and the violations that this park gained creeds, as well as the loss of mature trees or one tree, I believe. Okay. What is the tree that's being lost? Yeah, what's the, I'm sorry. I think that was in the recommendation we had on the seventh. For 41 college, it says building the driveway would also require cutting down on the church tree on the property. Would the applicant like to respond to the comment on the tree? The tree is going to come down one way or another, even if this project would not approve because it is a mature tree, I guess, in the sense that it's been there for awhile, but it's also a tree that is. The growth of the tree is hitting up against the side of my neighbor's house, so I wouldn't have imagined that they would like that to continue to be there. I was going to take the tree down anyways. Thanks for clarifying. Okay, I'm sorry. There was a motion. Did someone second it? Okay. I don't know how the cost is. Mr. Stambridge? No. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Rua? Yes. Ms. Mucahal? Yes. Ms. Logue? Yes. The chair votes no. The motion does not carry. Can I ask you a question, please? If I'm a little too kind of a man to show you in the middle of voting if the board wants to offer another motion they certainly can. Sorry, the applicant can just hold. Is there another motion? How many motion are denial of the offer? Is there a second? Second. Okay, Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Rua? Yes. Ms. Mucahal? Yes. Ms. Logue? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. If the applicant can work with the staff, I know you have a question. I think they can address that. I'm sorry. You allow me to ask you a question? I'm encouraging you to follow up with the staff, the ISD staff, for follow up. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have Kate, the OA 151 4976, with the address of 26 Montrose Street. Is the applicant and will they represent the applicant to explain to the board? He was on here earlier. Are you still on, sir? Yes, I believe he did it as an analyst. He should be able to do it. You can unmute yourself with your odd. Sorry, we can't hear you. We see you, but we can't hear you. We seem to have a lot of issues today. Unfortunately, we can see you. I can see you moving, but we just can't hear you. So if he's muted and caused on his phone without work, would we be able to hear him or would he create an echo that way? Anybody know that? It's a season. Yeah, I think if he uses his phone to call in, but stayed muted, it would be. Yeah, can you try muting yourself and calling in? We'd like to hear you today if possible. Or sometimes I think the computer will work through the long mic. Is it the fire? You have to mute the computer? Yes, can you hear us now? Oh, yes we can. Perfect. Hello. Well, Paul G's, Madam Chair and the members of the board for the issues in terms of the microphone, but my name is Abraham Hale. I'm also here with my father, Dr. Fkadr Dafar. And we're here to speak about the request for 26 Montreal Street. Perfect. Please proceed. Perfect. Okay. We also submitted a PowerPoint presentation to the... To this, do you guys have that here within the packet? Because it goes over all the points. This looks like these are the blueprints, but essentially the two violations that we would like to speak about are the parking violations. And then also the violations regarding the side yard, the insufficient space. Two of those things, two of those violations. Both of them are, we feel as if we have surpassed the requirements. So if we can just go ahead and go through, then if you could just keep scrolling down, these are just the plans for what we're trying to do is essentially extend the current attic space to make it a full three units. So to make that space a three family, the third units. And we are currently zone four eight three family with over 7,000 square feet lot. So there shouldn't be any issues at this point. So you can see right here, this is the parking layout. Originally, the parking wasn't sufficient, but now since my father has purchased the building, he's completely repaved. The parking spaces and there's actually more than enough parking units. There's four parking spaces that are able to be very easily without any obstruction, but we can park over six to eight cars in this parking area with no issues at all. So just the four spaces along with no obstructions definitely gives us sufficient space for the parking. And then also in terms of the violation with the side yard, we are a little over five feet from the. We're also a budding property line, but we're also more than well more than 10 feet of the, a budding property. The property on the right side of us has a, the building is basically set back because there's a parking lot area between the building and their property line. So the actual building is set back over 20 to 25 feet from their actual property line. So we definitely fit the criteria of over 10 feet from the budding property. Can you scroll down? Okay, so this is actually our whole PowerPoint presentation that shows it. So if you want to just go through it really quickly, this is just the agenda and then we kind of go through some of the talking points here just again talks about 26 more chose zone for three family total square feet of approximately 7,700 feet. Plans are to increase the use of square footed without changing the highest point or width of the building. You'll see just some of the design plans for the proposed design plans for the actual plan. These are just, we just showed, you know, some properties on the same street with the, you know, the same height that we're looking to eventually have. Here's just a comparison of driveway now versus before, where you'll see before it was an old driveway overgrown unpaid and now we've done more than enough to show you that there's more than enough space for parking for on obstructive cars. And then, yeah, that's still, I believe that's the entirety of the actual. Yeah, and then these are just some of the explanations of the floor area ratio that's no longer, but here's a good picture that shows you what I was speaking of, whereas the right side, the properties completely set back way past 10 feet of their actual property line. So we should be in compliance at that point. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Here in 9 May, public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor and I move with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office, it deferred to the judgment of this board. Some bad information on the community process. This went through an extensive on us like community process where the butter's meeting was held and the applicant was in touch in addition to presenting with the Roxbury Path forward neighborhood association meeting several times. Ultimately, the Roxbury Path forward neighborhood association voted to support this proposal. They were pleased with the changes made to house the parking spaces in the existing drive way and make sure it conformed with BTD's guidelines. The civic association should also pass at the board, consider a BPA design review related to the proposed changes to the attic because of this area. This is following in the moreland street historic district without deferred to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. William. Lorraine? Hi. My name is Lorraine Payne Wheeler and I'm presenting today on behalf of Roxbury Path forward neighborhood association. The corner mentioned there was an butter's meeting as well as neighborhood meeting and the consistent question that came up again and again was about the parking. Mr. Duffer did repay this driveway and tried to make agreements with the abutting neighbors to make sure that they would be able to park on site. So we support the project. Thank you. Any other questions? No, no other words. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. So that may have a motion. Oh, I'm put forward a motion of approval with BPA designer. Is there a second? Second. I just have a bridge. If I could try and amend the motion also to BTD. Okay. Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Ms. Mukahar. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. She also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Yes, sir. Okay. We'll need to take a break till 1 p.m. That's what I was going to say. And just so folks know ahead of time, we will be a five member board at that time. Thank you. See you then.