 Good evening. The City of Boston's zoning Board of Appeal Hearing for September 18, 2025 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature of this year. The new law allows the Board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through June 20, 20, 7. This hearing of the Board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure the hearing, this hearing of the Board is open to the public. Members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city of Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the Board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the Board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who have closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mrs. Stembridge sees the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called on or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. President. Good evening, Ms. Betaprasa. Good evening, Madam Chair. This is a hands-y present. Flores yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll go through the hearing schedule for five minutes. First, we have case VOA 173-3263 with the address of eight all-burns street. It's the applicant and where the representative of the president will be pleased to explain to the board. Sure. Hello. My name is Tim Shean. I'm the architect for the project. My client, David, is on as on here as well. This is eight Auburn Street. It's a single family three-story brick townhouse. What we're here for is the roof deck that as drawn in design needs relief from the zoning because it's the house is 38 feet is at six now. So we're over the height limitation of 35 feet. And basically, if you see that as you go through the drawings, you'll see the house that's it. It's actually an end row house. So it's sort of closer to Main Street than Bunker Hill Street. So the first house on Auburn Street as you get around the corner. You see the existing drawings. There's an existing headhouse there now with a little spiral staircase. The four and a half foot spiral staircase that goes up there now. There's an existing headhouse, as you see. You want to move to the next page? Excellent. And this is the roof deck we're proposed. It's 15 feet wide, 15 four by just almost 32 feet long. Because of the 4% grade of the roof, we would have two sections separated by 16 inches to risers. Because mainly because of the layout of the house, but also because of the size of the headhouse, we'd like, and just because spirals are awful to walk up, we'd like to put a traditional set of stairs with a hatch on a hatch structure over the stairs that exist now. And if you look closely at my right side elevation, you'll see that headhouse has an odd roof shape. It sort of sloped, an offset ridge sloped both ways. It doesn't have legal code legal headhide. It's like five feet at one end and like six five at the other. So what we're also asking along with the roof deck was to add you know, 18 inches to that headhouse to get seven feet of sailing inside, sailing height inside. That's essentially it. That's the project. We had a neighborhood meeting, I don't think anybody was there. With that, I'll hand it back to you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Judson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on Monday, May 4th at which no concerns were raised. But that background, our office deferred to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, we don't have additional comments, Madam Chair. That may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a provider that the project be reviewed by the BPD for the back and the end of the line. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Ms. Betarraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Good luck. Next, we have case of B-O-A-174-89-95 with the address of 16th Chessnav Street. It's the applicant and where they represent the president. They're pleased to explain to the board. I'm here. Can you guys hear me? Yes, sir. All right. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and ladies and gentlemen of the board. I am the owner of 16th Chessnav Street. I live in Charlestown. I'm at 7 Russell Street in Charlestown Presently. This is a pretty straightforward project. It's a single family house that we're looking to return to its former glory. We're here for three separate violations. The first one being the floor area ratio is excessive. The allowed floor area ratio on this project is 2700 square feet. And so we're going to be at around 32 and a half square feet. Basically, we're going to go over because of the addition of an extra living space in the basement. There's not going to be any additional bedrooms in the basement. It's going to be like a basically an extra like family room, you know, hang out room with an additional bathroom. And then there's some storage and some utilities down there. On the first floor is going to be a former living room dining room kitchen. And then there's going to be a sunroom out back. If you go up to the second floor, you'll find three additional bedrooms on that level with another two bathrooms. And then you'll see the second reason that we are here today. It's for the roof structure restriction. So basically, there was a deck there previously. Just the same as the basement was actually already refinished when we purchased it. But the previous owner did so without a permit. So we're basically here to, you know, do things the right way and rebuild this roof deck that was here in the back, which also violates the rear yard setback. So that's kind of both of those violations. That's kind of why we're here for those. All the other houses on that street kind of have this similar layout with a roof deck, you know, in this same location. And then on the top floor, there's going to be a master suite with a balcony off the back. That's pretty much it. Questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Siggy Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on August 12th at which no concerns were raised. With that background, our office defers judgment to the board. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Yes, we have somebody on the 10th section. The number 6173087266, you are allowed to speak now if you're... Oh, hi. Thank you. My name is Melissa Brennan. I live at H S in the street. So just a couple of things. I was not notified of the community meeting. I did ask Sean Braen if a community meeting had happened after I received this notice. And he told me he would get back to me, but I didn't hear back from him. I just wanted to bring a couple things to the board's attention, namely that these... The construction has been ongoing. And they dumped a dumpster right in the middle of the street without a permit. And my sister lives at number 10. So she went out to tell the workers that you need a permit for a dumpster and you can't leave it. This is an active street. And they moved it, but the next day they came back and did the same thing. So I looked up the deed of the house and it's actually owned by an LLC. I wasn't aware of that. The endocards owned it. So I called the lawyer that's listed as the resident agent of the LLC, Douglas Maccurio. And I left a message complaining about what happened with the dumpster. And nobody ever called me back. So I just bring this here. Thank you. Can you just sort of get to the punchline? Are you four or against what? Well, I'm against this if the construction is going to continue in the same manner. I just asked if this is approved that the owners, you know, get the proper permits for whatever they need as the construction goes on and are considered of the neighbors as this is a tight street and all the houses are right up against each other. And if there's like a number, I could call with any complaints going forward because like I said, the attorney never called me back. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Any other raised hands? No, we don't have additional comments. Would the applicant like to briefly respond to that concern? Yes. So I actually was made aware of your complaint by that lawyer, Doug Maccurio. And we did file for a street permit after that. So once we got that permit, that's when the dumpster went back into place. And the reason that construction has started already is because we have a short form permit to do the other work on the house that does not violate any of these codes. So we haven't done any work on the basement and we haven't built that deck in the back. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none is there a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put for a motion of approval with BPD design review. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better browser? Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B08 170 8871 with the address of 23 to 29 schools. It's the applicant and or their representative president. Very pleased to explain to the board. Hi. Here, this is Akko from Bullskin Bay. I just wanted to share. Are you are you the applicant? Yes. Okay, please proceed. Yes. So let me just I just want to show the screen. So you cannot share your screen, but this is what you submitted. So if you can speak to what's here, that would be okay. Perfect. All right. So I submitted the the plan for 27 29 school street. I have a spot. I'm just adding a service and I had to do a variance. I'm adding a microblading and a micro shading in one of the rooms and I just needed to go through the process because it was the change of occupation. I mean, additional variants. Questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have public testimony? Excuse me. Madam Chair, I'm the board. My name is Eva Jones. I'm presenting the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Regarding 29 school street, our office differs to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including a subcommittee flyer distribution on June 20, 2025. During the community comment period, I didn't receive any emails or letters regarding their phone calls regarding the proposal. The applicant was also connected with the downtown Boston Alliance and they did have a meeting with them and they were also connected with the other relevant civic association in the area of the downtown Boston neighborhood association. At this time, the mayor's office of neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this matter. Thank you everyone for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional comments. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. There's a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Avarosa? Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A, 175908, with the address of 120 to 126 Emerson Street. The applicant can do what they represent with presence. If they're pleased, it's going through the board. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Charlie Tevnan. I'm an attorney at 15 Broad Street in Boston. I'm appearing on behalf of the applicant, Sean George, and on behalf of the proposed Gong Cha, excuse me, bubble tea. Bryant Lung and Apple Lung are also the proponents. They are also appearing today on this hearing and are available to answer any questions. The building at 120 Emerson Street is a four-story mixed-use building which was newly constructed in 2022 at the site of the former Federico's bike shop. It's comprised of commercial space on the first floor and one accessible residential unit and floors two to four have five residential units. It's located in a multi-family local services sub-district. The applicant proposes to completely fit out the interior of the retail space and accommodate up to 20 patrons. The nature of the items being sold are bubble tea, waffles, and ice cream. The expected hours of operation are between 10 Em and 11 P.M. The proponent has completed the neighborhood process and the butter process. We did become aware just yesterday following a lightly attended or no attended a butter's meeting. We became aware just yesterday of a direct butter, Tom English's pub, who apparently was unaware of this project and did express some concerns. Bryant Lung, one of the two proponents, our applicants had an in-person meeting yesterday with Mr. English in response to Mr. English's concerns. Bryant is willing to initially roll back the closing time for the first few months of operation to 9.30 P.M. We also have been in touch with Council of Flynn's office and Council of Murphy's office. I personally called Mr. English and his his chief of operations today twice and attempted to reach out to both of them before this hearing to address any other concerns. But in some looking at the surrounding context given its location, longstanding commercial use, it will be a positive addition to the neighborhood. We feel the project is appropriate and in closing the proponents are available on the hearing to answer any community process of operations or design related questions. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, Ciggy Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted an abouters meeting on June 16th at which no concerns were raised. This proposal is in the catchment area of the city side neighborhood association which is aware of the proposal and shows to take no position. With that background, ONS refers judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Melissa Lough and I will be speaking on behalf of Councillor Flin's office. Councillor Flin would like to go on record in support based on working closely and consulting with neighbors and the gate of Heaven Neighborhood Association during the community process as well as agreeing today on a good faith compromise to change the closing hour from 11 p.m. down to 9 p.m. At the same time, Councillor Flin has heard from neighbors and local businesses. I feel as though they were left out, he acknowledges the city needs to do a better job in gazing of butters and small businesses in the community process moving forward. Lastly, he respectfully request that proponent work closely with neighbors, specific groups and are nearby businesses to address any quality of life and pedestrian safety issues. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we have another person. iPhone 8, if you can say your name and address please. I had a good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm the city council, Aaron Murphy's office. The council would like to go on record in support of this application with the caveat that the proponent works, keeps on working with the neighborhood and direct the butters during the process as they moved opening and also to work with all involved pedestrian safety as well. We appreciate the compromise of the rollback hours and the councilor, as I just mentioned, we'll go on record in support. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, there are no additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. There's second. There. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair and fellow board members and Mr. Ambassador. Next, we have case B-O-A, 175, 95, 6-8 with the address of 1621 to 1631 rural land. If the applicant and where they represent the present, they please go into the court. Okay, I think Nicole is on the 10th section. She is now on the panelist section. Please. I don't know. Nicole, are you here for this project? No. Okay, sorry about that. I don't think that is anyone here for. Okay, she is coming trouble to unmute herself. Do you need to unmute her first or is she is this on her end? I ask her to unmute but I don't know. I'm trying but I cannot unmute her. Nicole, are you still having trouble to unmute yourself? So I might suggest we move on and maybe Nicole should try to hang up and call back in. I don't know if that is an issue. So let's move on and we'll circle back to her. So move on to move move on to case B-O-A 169, 6233 with the address of 417 to 423 C West Broadway. Is there the applicant and or the representative's owner of the present? Is there a police officer behind the board? I, my name is just on A. Gonzalez. I'm the owner of Ryzen Lowell B. So on. I'm here to request a change of occupancy. You know, that add body art and permanent makeup to my existing salon. No exterior structural work is being proposed. This is just at the administrative occupancy. Other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and board members, see Johnson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This applicant completed, though, and that's community process. Our office oversaw distribution of an informational flyer to a butters which solicited no comments. The city side neighborhood association took no position on this application. If that background our office defers judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have any general comments. You mean with that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. You have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Bedar-Raza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-174-4521 with the addresses 8 Randfield Avenue. The applicant and the representative of the president. They're closed, explaining to the board. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Michael Chavez. I'm the co-founder and principal of social impact elective, the architecture firm that is representing Ms. Christina Fernandez, who's also on the call. My address is 26, I'm held part. The proposal is for an conversion of an addict to a third unit and an existing two family. I'm in the Twing kid pickups and soccer practice. I'm going to pass it off to our project architect, fam hitch and to walk you through the presentation. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Michael. Yes, so on screen we have the 8 Randfield residents, and it's existing two family residents with an addict. The client would like to convert the addict to an additional unit to create a three family home. But we go to the next slide. So the variance that we are looking for is for the lot area minimum. We'll be slightly over that with adding the third unit to the property. We are parking for two cars on site. We go to the next slide, please. So just a little bit of context for the property. It's on the angled lot outlined in yellow. You'll see, and from this photo on the existing in the neighborhood that the majority of the homes surrounding it are existing three family homes. So it will be typical of the use in the neighborhood. Next slide. So we have some existing context photos here. So used from Randfield Street of the house. You can see the existing sighting with detailing, etc. Thank you. Next slide. This is a sample of the surrounding neighborhood. So you see the summary on the right side. We're looking at three families, four to six families. So a lot of similar project, similar uses in the neighborhood. Next slide. This is the proposed design. So the elevation on the left, you'll see the new dorm is being added to the third floor to create the head height required for the new unit. The plan on the right is the first four plans. So there is no changes on the first floor. The door to the left at the front of the building will be for the lower unit. The door on the right will serve the, you know, on level two and then you, you know, on level three. We go to the next plan. This is the second floor on the left and then the new unit on the right. So on the second floor, there will be a new entrance into the level two unit on the, there will also be a door up to the third floor new unit. And you'll see it's a two bedroom unit with a kitchen living space and a unit laundry. The new stair will be at the front of the house to provide co-compined access and the existing rear stair will be rural and rain in place. Next page. So these are just some elevations of the proposed addition. So we tend to keep the same materials matching the existing building and retain key architectural elements with the window styles and trims to match the existing building. And we go to the last slide. So this is just the, the other views of the of the building. That's the end of our presentation. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? The pedestrian. May I have the pedestrian. The pedestrian. The pedestrian. It's a pedestrian for addition. Just observations that it's just kind of maximize completely to the footprint, typically in a past BPD, like kind of sufficient setbacks and to look at the bridge. But I see they didn't have any comments. So no questions from me. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Rosalindale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Nibbos Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an a Buddhist meeting facilitated on August 4th that was very lightly attended with no inquiries or concerns raised. Following the Buddhist meeting, no further community process was required and the proposal was approved and moved forward. At this time, our officers not received any further community feedback. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of Nibbos Services. We'd like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Okay, my name is Chair. There are no additional comments. Will that may have a motion? Madam Chair, with community support, I'm going to put for a motion of approval. Is there a second? Is that Mr. Stembridge? Yes. There's better browser. Yes. Chair votes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Next, we have case V08, 170, 870, with the address of 109 Climate Avenue. The applicant can do whatever they represent on the board. The auditor should explain to the board. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Mamnie. I'm the homeowner at 109 Climate Avenue. Thank you for your time this evening. If you could please go to sheet A1, which is I believe page 4. That's it right there. Thank you. My wife and I bought this house in January of 2024. We've loved living in West Roxbury, continuing to call Boston our home. We've a growing family. Our son was born about a year ago. This is the current footprint of the house. It's a great house for us right now, but there's a few things we'd like to change to accommodate our growing family. You'll note that there's one bathroom in the main living area of the house on the second floor. There's a toilet in the basement, and there's a bathroom up on the third floor, which is a sort of on suite that we use when my mother-in-law is staying with us. So, we were one of our progels was to add an additional bathroom. The house is a bit disjointed as well. We wanted to try to make for a sort of more cohesive floor plan, bring the kitchen and the living space together. And additionally, we wanted to create a sort of secondary entrance to bring people around to not have folks come into the front of the house at all times, so we could have sort of a mudroom and lay down area. If you go to the next sheet, please. Sorry, sheet A3. One more. Thanks. So, our proposal is essentially a 16-foot addition directly off of the rear of the house. It's the full width of the house, except for an area for a small deck on the first floor. We're confirming and maintaining the house as a single family, and just adding some additional living space for us. There is a existing side yard setback that's pre-existing non-conforming at the house. That we are lessening by removing the current side entrance that is to the rear, and putting on a new front-facing side entrance that's farther from the house next to us, but still within the side yard setback. So, we'll need a variance for that sort of continuation. We've also obviously were adding floor areas, so we're increasing the FAR above what's permitted. On site. And then finally, because we are adding an additional dormer on the third floor to sort of expand the existing bedroom up there, the floor area of the third floor floor plate is now greater than half of the floor area of the floor plates below, and so it constitutes the third floor. So, although there's no change in the height of the building, it goes from being a two and a half story to a three-story building. That's it. Some of you have the relief for seeking some of the benefits. Like I said, we're adding sort of a side entrance with a mudroom. The kitchen will be sort of in the addition on the first floor and will be combined with a sort of family room. We'll be adding new basement level living space, and then on the second floor we'll be adding an on-screen bathroom and expanding a bedroom and giving that on-screen bathroom as well. I'll leave it at that. I'm happy to answer any of the questions that the Board may have. Thank you. Are there questions from the Board? Hearing that may have public testimony. Madam Chair and Board members, Cee Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner completed the ONS community process. Our office hosted in a butter's meeting on May 20th at which no concerns were raised. The applicant presented to the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council which voted to support the application. With that background, ONS first judgment to the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. There's better browser. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you all. Madame Chair, we'll circle back to the previous case. That's definitely in case of B.O.A. 175, 9.5, 16 of the address of 16, 21 to 16, 31 Blueville Avenue. The applicant and all they represent the Board. Yes. Nicole was here once again. Let me see. She is on the 10th section. Nicole. There we go. I think I got it. Okay, we can hear you. Great. How are you? Good. Good. Please proceed. Yes. So this is just an ownership change. We purchased the store and we've done no work, but I'm just trying very hard to get my CV license. And I think this is the last step that I need was to come before you guys to, I guess, remove a proviso that was put onto the previous honor. Okay. That's as straightforward as they get any questions from the Board. Hearing none, Madame Public testimony. Madame Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I am the Medipand Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. Due to the nature of the proposal, our office does not envision any concerns under the community process was not required. And the proposal was approved to go before the zone of Board of Appeals. The data of our office has not received any community feedback, either in support of the opposition of the proposal. Thank you for your time and the Ms. Officer of Neighborhood Services, we'd like to defer to the Board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Madame Chair, there are no additional comments. With that, may I have a motion? Madame Chair, I'd like to move forward with a motion of approval. Madame the second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Bedapuraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. So with that, Madame Chair, we'll move on to the Board final operator case, scheduled for 5.5 p.m. That is a case V.O.A. 170. 8481. With the address of 45, 4.0. The applicant and whether they're representing the Board present, we'll take place in the slide to the Board. And Madame Chair, it's Caroline. May I provide a brief introduction of what the applicant's asking? That would be great. So the applicant applied to build a detached garage with an in-loss suite, which requires an ERT permit. They were advised to apply for both a ERT and an ALT for the same project. ISD issued refusal letters, citing the exact same zoning violations and labeled it as 45-oreal and 45-A-oreal, even though it should have only been one address, one project, one refusal letter, just one ERT. On July 8, the Board heard the ELT application, but not the ERT. The Board heard 45-oreal. Every single zoning code violation was granted, really, by this Board. And today, I believe Grants here just to confirm that all the zoning relief has been granted, for the ERT. And again, every zoning code violation that was cited, for 45-A-oreal, it's also cited for 45-oreal. And so this is more of an administrative error on ISD's part. Great. Thank you. Would that, Mr. Lewis? Would you like to confirm? Yes. I don't know what else to say since she really covered everything. So we got approval at the July 8th full committee meeting, but then had trouble pulling the permit, at which point we realized those are clerical error and 45-A wasn't added. So just a relatively simple project, a garage detached with living quarters above. I don't think it's technically an ADU. There's no kitchen. It's just a bathroom, bedroom, and living room for hopefully infrequent and temporary use by visiting relatives and maybe children returning from college, etc. So I think I'll leave it there unless you want more information about the project. That's great. Any questions from the Board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval of the request. Is there a second? Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Betapraza. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Have a good night. Have a good night, all. Thank you. Thank you. You're on Tuesday.