 Good evening. The City of Boston is owning a board of repeal hearing for December 5, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep through on what presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. To chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an MPO, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive your request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair President. Good evening, Ms. Betabraza. Good evening, Madam Chair President. Good evening, the floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. As we begin the hearing schedule for 5 p.m. First, we have case B.O.A. 162-9666 with the address of 20 Flavius Street. If the applicant and where they represent a present, will they please explain the case to the board? Yes, good evening. My name is David Fried and I'm an architect. I live at 23 Salchum Street in Dorchester. And I'm pleased to present this project if we could start, sure, thank you, the proposed plot plan. The owners were just seeking to do a very modest addition to the rear of the house to provide floor A mudroom, laundry, and half bath and large kitchen on the first floor. And in owners suite on the second floor with an office alcove. Next slide please. Here's an image. These are images of the, thank you. These are images of the back of the house. It's got a very deep yard. As you can see in our site plan below, which is kind of a Google Maps overlay. The street is consists of a very similar house type on both sides. A number of people have done additions as well. And next slide please. This is just an existing and proposed plan of the basement. Next slide please. And then on the left is the existing first floor and on the right is our proposed first floor. And again on the left is our existing second floor and then our proposed second floor. The violations that we've incurred are side yard violation because we wanted the owners wanted the addition to align with the existing face of the outside face of the house. So we incurred a side yard violation there. We've also incurred NFAR violation as we're .06 over the allotted .5 for 2 out 5,000. We are incorrectly cited for a rear yard violation, which we tried repeatedly to get an updated refusal from ISD, but we weren't able to get that. And then here we have on our lower left. I'm sorry on the top of the screen are the existing elevations on the bottom of the proposed. So on the bottom left is our proposed rear elevation where we have sort of some larger registration on the back looking into the rear yard so the owners can watch their kids. We have a nice canopy over the entrance to the mudroom. And on the right is our side elevation. The owners are going to remove the final siding in this renovation and cloud the house with firework cement lap siding and trim it out with water table and corner boards. And then finally here's our other side elevation. And that's our presentation. Thank you questions from the board. I'm sure at the extent the addition is very modest. I don't have any questions. Thank you. May we have public testimony? Good morning. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. In regards to 20 Flavia Street, our office will defer to the board's judgment. A community process was conducted, including on a butters meeting on 10724, which was not attended by any constituents. And I did not receive any additional comments from the community following the butters meeting. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed with the Pope's Health Civic Association, which convened on 102324. The association has expressed support for the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office and neighborhood services differs to the board's judgment on this decision. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no restraints at the moment. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. I have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Good night. Next, we have case B.O.A. 1577332 with the address of 15 packet avenue. If the applicant and or their representative of present, will they please explain to the board. Tony, if you're on or you raise your hand. Don't say anybody's hands at the moment. The phone. Can you unmute yourself, phone? Are you here to present? Or I don't know Jessica, can you unmute this person? Can you? Yeah. You can. I he's a panel. So I can't mute him. I can ask him to unmute yourself. Phone you just. I sent a request on you, but you there you go. I see flickering, but it's still muted. If you can unmute yourself, will be happy to listen to their presentation. I just send a request. Sorry about it. No, it's okay. I'm going to give like a two seconds. I think we can move on and circle back and maybe that'll hopefully give them time to. There we go. Let's go to see dress and circle back. Okay. Then we'll move on to case B.O.A. 1626437 with the address of 58. I saw that person's hand raised as well. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. Yes. Hi, my name is James. Please. I'm a property owner as well as applicant. I'm here representing myself. Just a quick overview about what I'm trying to do this project back in March 11th, 2023. I found the sucker of fire. And no one was harmed. It left us displaced. So I took this as an opportunity to take the existing property from a one family into a two. Sir, you're coming in and out. I don't know. You're coming in and out. You cannot hear you clearly. I'm not sure. I don't know if the applicant can maybe if you try turning off your video or. Adjusting your sound. I'm going to. I'm going to suggest. We can hear you now. We can hear you now. Okay. Okay. Sorry. I have to redo my. Sorry about that. No, that's okay. I was just going to say feel free to maybe try. I'm sorry about that. I was saying that back in March, March 11, 2023. My family and I suffered a fire which left us displaced, although known was harmed. But we eventually lost our family home. So given that the fire presented itself as also opportunity for us to take it from existing one family into a two family. So the whole purpose is to get the family back into living under one space and have enough space where I can rent to my aunt ends have everybody within the same rules so that we could better take care of our our mother who suffered from dementia. So that's the whole motivation behind changing the property from one to two. As you can see with the first page it just kind of shows. Well, I should say the second. The first page is to one just gives the different. That this meeting is in relation to the lot area being. There's a lot of the area that's sufficient. The floor ratio of excessive space insufficient and side of the existing versus what the city departments are. And I'm off a little bit on each category. Lots of sites is 5,000 square feet. I'm at 4840. The additional lot area is. Residue additional lot area. Maybe I'll pause you and ask if. If numbers have any questions. Yeah. Yes, understand. Yeah, and the zoning variance that you're requesting is on the on the sheet, which we've reviewed and. Okay. I don't have any further questions. The good thing is that you're in a zoning sub district that is 2F. 5,000. Correct. I'm going to ask you to ask a large request. So this is again, a very modest request as well. Thank you. Thank you. May I open it up to public testimony. Good evening, Madam Chair and members of board regarding 58th Cedric ad. Our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. A community process was conducted, including enough letters, meaning on 81524. And the proposal was a good fit for the neighborhood. Additionally, the proposal was reviewed in the West Village neighborhood association, which voted to support the proposal and did also provide a letter of support for the proposal. At this time, the mayor's office of the name has services, different to the board's decision. Thank you for your time and consideration, everyone. Thank you. So the record we have no raised hands at the moment. I have a red hand. Oh, yes. I said a question. When I went to the earlier meeting, but we weren't able to get kind of details about the square footage that would be increased. And it would be helpful to friend to explain what the current is and what will the change will be in terms of life, the increased square footage and maybe show the pictures. Because we weren't able to do that at the previous meeting. So for the record, can you just identify yourself in my name, do or 10, rehasty. Okay. And are you in a butter? I'm partners within a butter and going to be living next door. Understood. So, so I think I just heard a question to the applicant about square footage. Sir, do you want to answer that question before we proceed? James. Sure. Yes. A three shows the existing of a plant, the existing numbers. And a four will show the numbers of the proposed. So it's going to be pretty much the exact same overall. So, it's just will be adding additional on top of the house. But as far as the square footage is, the total would be from 39, 8 inches to about 40 point. Three inches. Sorry, feet, three inches. That'll be the difference in length. Thank you. And in the question. Yes. From the board. Okay. Hearing none. Is there a motion? Madam chair. Given that the maximum FAR on the properties point five, but the proposal is point four nine. I see the request to be within the zoning kind of regulations of a two F sub district. So for that reason, I'm putting forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Ms. Ben Abraza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Will that see if Kate will go back to case, be away. One five seven seven three three two. I'm going to ask the address of 15 packer Avenue. See if the applicant or their representative are ready to speak. Hello. Thank you. Hi, can you hear me okay? Yes, are you speaking on behalf of 15 Packer? Yes. Hi. My name is Fongley and I'm the owner at 15 Packer. I'm the owner at 15 Packer. I'm the owner at 15 Packer. And we would just like to make a small proposal to our existing space. If we look through the floor plans here, we already did an addition about 15 years ago to the home. And it's a two and a half story home. And we're just hoping to add. Dormer windows to our third floor to make it a little bit more usable as we have a multi generational family. And we have a family of myself, my husband, my three children, also my mother, and all. Questions from the board. Hearing none may I have public testimony? Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones with the Nitt Mayor's Office in Neighborhood Services. Regarding 15 Packer to have our office will defer to the board's judgment on this matter. This was conducted, including in a butter's meaning held on 11 624 where no concerns were expressed. Additionally, the proposal was we're also reviewed with the lower mill civic association, which convened on 10 15 24 and voted to support the proposal at this time. The mayor's office of neighborhood services differs to the board's decision. Thank you for your time and consideration, everyone. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Hearing none may have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward motion of approval. Is there a second? Sackere. If there's a bridge. Yeah. There's better browser. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we'll move on to the rediscussion schedule for 5 p.m. This is case B.O.A. 161 387 9 with the address of 43 to 45 with Avenue. If the applicant and or their representative of present, will they please put in the case to the board? Hello, board. Hello, Madam Chair. Yes, are you the applicant? Yes, ma'am. Okay, please proceed. Are you on two devices or? I think I may be. I see a miss. That's my wife. Okay, so please proceed. Yes, I'm. I'd like to I'd like to continue this for a couple of weeks because the plans that's listed with this. I think that's what I think is going to be the case. I think that's going to be the case. Or an accurate. If you look at these plans. They say their. This stuff is all proposed. It's that these things are actually existing. So it has an existing driveway, existing curb cut and another existing curb cut. So we would only be asking for the driveway. But these plans on accurate and I've been trying to get the engineer. To redo them and it's been very difficult to actually saw him today. So he didn't move. How much time do you need? We can find out what would be great. I'm sorry, for a time. Two weeks to be fine. Okay, um, Caroline, what do we have? Give me one minute. I'm looking right now. Of course, thank you. Sorry. Probably for January because it's this subcommittee needs every month. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Is it the next subcommittee, Caroline? That's the 23rd. Or the 14th is the next. I'm checking the date for the next committee in January. I apologize. It's okay. It's the 23rd. Okay. I apologize. January 23rd. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Is that sufficient for the applicant? Yes, ma'am. Like I said, the only thing that all this stuff is proposed. So we would just be removing proposed proposed proposed. And it's understood. May I have a motion? Yes, Madam Chair. I'd like to put forward a motion to defer the project to the subcommittee hearing on January 23rd. May I have a second? That could. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better brazza. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. We'll see you then. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, boy. And thank you to everyone. Have a good night. Have a good evening. I'm not. Bye. Bye.