 Good morning. It is now 9.30 in the Board of Appeal for today. Every 24th is now underway. Just to tell you that the open meeting law requires that I notify the public that this meeting is being recorded. Therefore, please be aware that an audio and visual recording office meeting is being made and broadcast by Boston City TV, which is part of the City of Boston Office of Legal Communication. As I said before, please turn off your cell phones. If you need to have conversations, please state them outside of the room. We will ask you to tell us exactly what your project proposal is and what your community process has been. We will start off this morning with Board Final Orbiter. Colle, BZC, BZC 33281 53 Roaps of Street. Please have a seat. What are your name and address for the record and what are you requesting? My name is Arthur Johnson. I live in 48 Roaps of Street, which is right across the street from 53, which is the subject of my request. It was a major parcel of the four of our neighbors' plot. We got zone relief a little over two years ago to do three units. One of our partners died and really slowed us down. I'm looking for an extension of the permanent period. How long are you requesting? A year. Is there a motion from this board? A year. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Your request has been approved. Thank you very much. Colle, BZC 33587 27 Washburn Street. Name and address for the record, please. My name is James Christopher. Business address of 415. I'm with the project architects. What are your requests for today? This project is been before the board twice. The first time we deferred to continue the community process. During that process, the community approved the addition of the seventh unit. When we came back to the board, the project wasn't re-advertised, so the board could not approve the seventh unit. So at this time, I have a letter of support from the McCormick Civic Association and the plans examined Mr. Machozov stating that the seventh unit does not add any additional zoning violations. So we will request approval of the seventh unit at this time. Have you spoken before given us a poll presentation of what the proposal is? Yes. Okay. We presented seven units at the last hearing, but because the project that was advertised was only advertised as six units of board, couldn't vote to approve seven. Okay. Do you have a set of those? I do. And here's the letter of support. Okay. Drawing shows the seventh unit. Okay. Make a motion. Congratulations. We have to request it. We have a B.I. I'll go in favor. All right. Any opposed? The motion carries. You're all set. Thank you for your time. Thank you. You're changing the order. Correct. All right. Thank you. BOA-12A Everdeen Street. Name and address for the record, please. I'm John Pogini, 10-4-0 in brainfake. And what are you requesting? It's a clarification as to square footage on the plan that was previously a subdivision plan, which was previously approved by the board. I have the amended plan as well as a letter from ISD, say that it pays no other violations or reasons for their existence. Okay. The revised plan is consummated with a letter from Luis Santana, saying you cannot require any additional summary. The damage is granted previously a consistent resolution of what's shown in the plot. And what is the change? Is it significant or is it? It's basically a parking spot. So it's a union office on one side with a two family residence on the other. So there was some confusion as to a parking spot. So the change is that parking spot that would include that onto the two family residence. Okay. So it actually works better for the community. How does it work for the property because that goes into perpetuity? Correct. Okay. How does it work for that? It works out well. Make a motion. And the only other request that I have like six days from the date of the decision just to pick up. So you need an extension for a six day extension? Yes, please. Okay. So that includes the emotion of the design. Yes, it is. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. The opposed. So you're all set. Thank you. Calling BZC-3223065 Grove Street. The applicant's representative states that they are requesting for the recognition of the person who is refusing himself. The applicant's representative states that they need an extension. Is there a motion for an extension? Motion to provide the extension. And that's for one year. One year. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And I vote for that motion. So that is all set. Okay. Calling BZC-24442-97-103 Tremont Street. Is there a motion for that motion? Is this these companion cases, Joe? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Then calling BZC-2444310911 Tremont Street is a companion case. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermacool, Team Billor, Austin Whitby is our architect, Doug Carr, to my immediate right, to my far right is Henry St. Hallair, who is the representative of Saras and Properties, the new owner and developer of the development. Could you just just last before us? So we were here just to give you some background and passing out this is the complete set of plans and renderings for this Article 80 large project residential development in Oak Square, also copies of the correspondence that I sent to the board with related attachments requesting the board final larger review. We were here back in January as the new owner and developer for an extension of these permits. This original case was approved by the board of appeal back in 2004 and there was an about a repeal subsequent to that which stayed the process and then the board had issued extensions and the permits were extended by the Permit Extension Act and most recently by this board through to February of 2016. The new owner developer is a joint venture between main sale management and Saras and Properties who has extensive experience in residential development and property management. They have spent the last year working with the Oak Square community and the BRA talking about how they can improve the design and come up with what we think is a better program and work within the existing approvals which we're here to review with you. That case was approved by the BRA on January 15th and I provided you with the board vote for that for a notice of project change pursuant to Article 80 large project review. So the number of residential units stayed the same? Yes ma'am. The number of parking spaces did they stay the same? The original approval was for 94 parking spaces. Pairs are 91 so it's essentially the same as you know the parking under the code is set through Article 80 large project review and that was part of the notice of project change that was reviewed through the article 80 process and approved on board. So it looks like the parking has changed and the rear yard setback? No, rear yard setback. We're not violating the rear yard. The setbacks are all the same. We're requiring no new variances whatsoever. There have been some alterations to there are two sections in the development. One is a low rise, the other is a mid rise or in six stories. The board granted relief for a high variance of 68 feet which were still below but there are some changes to the height at those sections that again are both the low. The grant of the height of 68 feet. So we think it's appropriate for board final armoured review as we're not triggering any new zoning violations and this has gone through full community process. Can you below the height of should still? I'm sorry. If you're below the height that you were already granted we shouldn't be here. Well they got a high variance the high requirement is 35 and they got a variance for 68. What I'm saying is our revisions still are under 68 feet. So we're not triggering any new or not impacting the existing variance that was granted other than to make alterations. And Doug Carr who is the architect who came up with this design is here to answer any questions and we provided the full complaints for as well. How did the clients look Mr. Pazani? The plan is fine. I have one question. This is not modular. No it is not. It's still built. Can you remind the board who the contract has been selected and if so? Not at this point. We've explained that out and it went through an open process for that. I would also suggest that one of the things that changed which is a benefit especially as we look to address affordable housing is we're doing two additional housing units the original approval through the BRA of course this board was for six and we're now doing eight and that's in the notice of project change. I'm assuming that there will be due diligence to ensure that the construction will occur with city of Boston residents. As you know through the article 80 process we have Boston employment, Boston jobs agreement and the co-op agreement. Does there a motion from the sport? Motion to grant approval with the continued BRA exactly. Third second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. Thank you. Next case here is for G card. It's a B O A number 43 69 95 119 to 119 119 8 Charles Street. Your name and address for the record please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the rest of our concerns are, All right? Thank you. Number 3171. And the rest of our concerns are, including wheelchair requires hemorrhage week, and all rules have been done. The full boardRednerwechsel president. All right. Does the board consent to arithmetic? Thank you. Thank you. You may take that conversation offline with Susan at the end. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Billing code, calling BOA for 2225927 Rutland Street. Purpose is to replace existing wood fence with a new wood fence violation of Billing Code Refusals 780 CMR. Name and address for the racquet please. Peter White, was that associated, the landscape architect for the owner? Please tell us briefly what you're requesting. We're requesting a variance for the fence that was Bill. The existing fence was a few inches slower that you can see in some of the photos that were submitted with the application from the one that was Bill. The existing fence was standing when we applied for review by for historic review and then just before we applied for the permit. The owner, because two sections of the fence fell down into the public way, went ahead and tore the fence down. So when we went for the permit, the building inspection set as the fence still there and the contractor pulling the permit, said no it was taken down and said you need to apply for a six foot maximum fence. We submitted the photo showing that the fence that was Billed is, you can see that the photo is consistent with the neighborhood. It's same material, same heights. What height are you requesting? It's seven feet. And Mr. President, why is that here for Billing Code? Wow. Do you consider it quite? It's straight zoning. It should be straight zoning relief and your path of police resistance is to replace it with a six foot fence. Just for the difference between a six foot and seven foot, six foot you can do as a bright seven foot you need to come before us. Well, okay. One of the reasons that the site is that construction documents submitted an violation of 780 or 780 or even to misrepresentation within the scope of work. Okay. But I think it's a small issue. But I, as Salt and Lamhust have been able to weigh in on the feet foot fence, is it in feet footer-submitted? It is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's maximum height. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Again, has, is Salt and Lamhust weigh in on this? We went to them previous to apply for the permit and they said it's not within our jurisdiction because it's not seen from the main street. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Just straight approval. You know what? I don't understand, that's. For where you're offense. Okay. Could I just sec-enall those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You have your 7 foot 6 fence. 9.30 a.m. hearings. Are there any withdrawals or deferrals? Yes, please. Doug Steffanov for 4.40. Sorry. What's the address, please? 4.40 East 8th Street. Yeah. Calling B-O-A-437278. We are looking for the file at the moment. Can you tell us, please, what you're requesting? I'm requesting to defer this so we can do proper community outreach. I was supposed to leaflet during the blizzard and I didn't get out to leaflet. Not giving my 10 days. I'm slacking. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This would be a first community meeting then. Yes, it was. We got a date that came quickly or more quickly than we expected. And when are you scheduled to meet with the community? Well, depending on the date, I'll set it up with Eric near future. And what date are you requested? Next available, if possible. What would that be? There is the availability on April 21st at 11.30. That'd be grand. There are second. Second. All those in favor? All right. Thank you all very much. So we'll see you. Take a shovel with you next time. It's April 21st at 11.30. Yes. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. More antsy? I have two unfortunately, Madam Chair. I've obviously been some disruptions to community process with the weather. What are the addresses? Yes. First one is a 44-addom street. Calling BOA-4333-2-3884-Addom Street. Name an address for the record, please. Morning. My name is George More antsy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Sel Boston. This matter has been for the planning committee of the City of Grove Civic Association, but it has not been voted upon by General Membership. We have been asked to request a deferral to allow their General Membership meeting to have a vote on the project. And when is that going to occur? It will be the March meeting. There's an available date on April 21st at 11.30. That would be that. That would be that. That would be that. Excellent. Thank you. May I have a motion for deferral? Motion for deferral. There are second. Second. There are all sets. You're April 21st at 11.30. The number two is 13 Sagamore Street. Calling BOA-438190-13 Sagamore Street. Name an address for the record, please. Again for the record, George More antsy, the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Sel Boston. We've had a meeting with the planning committee of the Columbia 7th Civic Association and an onsite meeting. However, the General Membership has not been able to vote on this. The request to deferral to allow the members of the Association to vote. Sorry, motion for the parole. Second. Second. Are those in favor? Aye, aye. Any opposed? The date, too. April 21st, 11.30 again. Thank you. Okay. The address, please. A20 to A24, Truman Parkway, as well as two Garfield Street, please. So that's four cases combined. I'll read the mid-list of all of them. BOA-434-800-820, Truman Parkway. BOA-434-806-822, Truman Parkway. BOA-434-803-824, Truman Parkway. BOA-434-804, two Garfield Avenue. Name an address for the record, please. Sean O'Donovan, 10 Tremont Street for the developer, please. The applicant. What are you requesting? Requesting a deferral matter-share woman. We are unable to have the neighborhood meeting as a result of all the snow. It's couldn't pull together. Okay. And that would have been your first neighborhood meeting? Yes, please. Okay. Is there a motion for the parole? Motion for the deferral. There are seconds. Second. All those in favor? Aye. What's the date, Mr. Arleck? April 21st, 11.30 again. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Russ. The address, please. Yes, three Aspenwall Road. Calling BOA-4200123 Aspenwall Road. Name an address for the record, please. Russell Forsberg, 19.50. You have a new Avenue Avenue in Massachusetts. What are you requesting? We're requesting a deferral at this time. We'd like to continue the neighborhood process, which we have engaged in already. And also, some of the about us were not made aware of the actual date. We don't feel it would be appropriate to go forward with the hearing at this time, because they don't have the availability to get here. So it requested a deferral. So you've had community meeting. We've had one community meeting on this particular project already, but we'd like to continue that, extend that process a little bit further. Okay. Is there a motion from this board? Motion to deferral. There are seconds. Yes. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, Mr. Arleck? Again, April 21st, 11.30. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other withdrawals or deferrals? Seeing none, calling B-O-A-44146-4809-821 Beacon Street. Purpose is to remove the proviso B-Z-C-31677 for non-conforming use. Conditional use permit for children's medical center parking. Open air lot. Parking for 249 vehicles. Violation is Article 6, Section 4. Other protectional conditions. Name and address for the record, please. Lawrence Baker, 25-Iling Drive. Excuse me. Can we take the conversations outside of the room, please? Thank you. What are you requesting? Renewal for our parking lot at 819 Beacon. Requesting. How many spaces is that? It's 249 and it's used Monday through Friday for children's hospital employees to park there. There's no transit parking. There's same 200 plus gas park there. And is that just about the mass park? Yes, there's two out of about the mass park. If you come down to maintenance street, we're on the right. Redsox parking and B-I parking is on your left. Okay. Any questions from the board? How do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? By and orange red. Did you put, was, was there a proviso last time for screening and buffering? There was, with the BRA, I was in communication for the last two plus years with BRA. Made Lin Street with the Yawke extension has been under construction for the past two years. This Thanksgiving Christmas period, this city just took back the street. So all that was on hold until the project was complete. Okay. Anybody here to speak in support of this? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Chair and Aubrey Wales Office of the Name of the Services. Our office would like to be heard on recording support of this application. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Councilor Lydes, Steve Murphy's Office. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan from City Councilor Michael Flaherty, would like to also go and record support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Probably for a little for a three year extension of consistent with all of them. Can we have design review and is it possible to do five years since I don't think they're going to be moving anywhere? Five years is fine. There are second all those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? So you have approval for five years for screening and buffering and design review to the BRA. Okay. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-4383-30165 Metropolitan Avenue. I would like to renovate the existing two family dwelling, build a new dormer to extend the second unit apartment, rebuild, relocate the existing garage as per plan. Violations, Article 67, Section 9, floor area ratio, excessive building height, excessive side yard insufficient, very yard insufficient, and Article 9, Section 1, extension of non-conforming use. Name and address of the record please. My name is Rosie Ann Solomon. I'm the owner of the property at 165 Metropolitan Avenue, which has been in my family for 60 years. So please explain to us what you're proposing. Well, the proposal is that I want to renovate and remodel the family home to make it more comfortable for the family. But it's a two family house. It's going to remain a two family house. I'm just going to move to the second floor instead. And the first floor will be the rental unit. We have a two car existing garage that's on a separate lot. And we're going to move that existing garage off the property line and attach it to the house, basically for safety reasons, because the way the property is, there's kind of a slope, a slant, and there's some stairs. And I'm trying to eliminate those stairs and be able to have access to the house directly from the garage. But I did prepare some copies of everything for everybody to see. I apologize. I only had four copies. I didn't know how many members were on this floor, so I do apologize. But you can see from the garage on a separate lot or on this lot. The property consists of two lots. I pay two separate tax bills. So there's a drawing there that shows you that we're moving the garage to attach it to the house. But the actual footprint and the actual space is no more than what I actually already have. And all the sitbacks and everything are the same as what already exists. There's nothing that has changed in the actual size, the ridge line of the house is the same. Everything is within the same footprint as what we already have. I'm not adding on any space anywhere else. And we've shown the green space and the open space. And we're just trying to improve it for our use and to better the community. And I've been in contact with my neighbors since October. I had a meeting for them at the house in January. And I actually circulated a petition. And my neighbors are all in favor of the project. Part of the plan is, look Mr. Pazani. Roger. Any questions from the sport? Is there something there now where you're proposing to move the garage? No, it's land. So it doesn't have a door. It's really an addition. It looks like it's an addition for the two car garage plus a door on the second floor. So it's... And this is a two family dwelling. Yes, and it's going to remain a two family. How large will that second unit be? Two bedrooms and two bathrooms in an attic space that will have an additional bedroom and bathroom in it. Anybody here to speak in support of this? Madam Chair and members of the board, Lee Glossy City Council to Macaathy's office. The council would like to go and record and support. She did have a community meeting. She's been a one-term resident of the street, owning the property. So we're in support. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, my name is Christine Galatas and on behalf of the mayor's office, we'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tara McDonough from City Council at Lodge Street, Murphy's office. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Henry Cohen on behalf of City Council, Michelle Wu. I'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair and members of the board, Paul Solving City Council, Michael Flaherty, Glossy City Council on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval, BRA design, second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You're all set with BRA design. Thank you very much. Going BOA 43826661 Blake Street. Purfaces to two install a driveway for two cars on the right side yard. Violation, Article 10, Section 1. Limitation of area of accessory uses and Article 69, Section 9, open space in sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Harold Raymond, 998, Metropolitan Ave, Milton. Harold, can you briefly tell us what the applicant is requesting? Okay. We have approval from DPW and transportation. We don't have any drawings. Okay. I can give you these. We have approval from transportation and DPW to install a curb cut for a driveway on the side of a house on Blake Street in Manipin. How did the plans look? The plans were not signed. The driver was standing in the full. That's what's probably going to happen. And it's now risk point. Okay. I'll go to the wrong place. Section 23, please. That's what we're talking about. Why is out to 10 feet? Okay. Anybody here to speak in support of the proposal? Anybody here? Mr. Board of the Board. We haven't seen the plans. However, if the drawings are adequate for the board, and it's not a front yard parking situation, and then get two cars off the street, that area of Blake could really use it. We'll be recorded in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Lee Blassey, City Council, Tim McAfee's office. Councilor Blake, to go on my candidate's board. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. Calling BOA-442232-35Hansboro Street. We might just hold it for a minute. Here coming. Purpose 12 unit multifamily housing to be built at the combined site to include numbers 31, 35, and 39 Hansboro Street. Calling 18,000 square feet with an additional 42, 20 square feet of administrative and program space for the occupants in the basement. Debuilding as a concrete foundation and wood frame construction with a Mansard roof. Landscaping play areas and two parking spaces are provided. Violations. Section 60, section 40. Off-Street parking insufficient, off-Street loading insufficient. Article 60, section 8. Multi-family dwelling forbidden. Article 60, section 9. Floor area ratio excessive, height excessive, usable open space insufficient, front yard insufficient, lot area for additional dwelling units insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning. Members of the board, my name is Cynthia Lesh, and I'm an attorney with a business address at 100 Summers Street in Boston Mass. To my left, I have the developer of this project, Deborah Hughes, the CEO and president of Brookview House, located at two Brookview and Dorchester. And to my right, I have the architect of the project, Michael Washington of Michael Washington Architects, located at 891 Centra Street in Jamaica Plain. As you said, we are seeking the necessary approvals to erect 12 units of housing for homeless families and programming space at 35 Hansboro Street, which is currently vacant lots in the Dorchester Matter Pan area. And we have for you the centremendous letters of support from State Representative Russell Holmes, State Senator, Linda de Cina Forri, City Counselor, Charles Yancy, the Franklin Field South Civic Association and the Boston Police Department. Deborah is here to discuss Brookview House in detail, and Mike is here to discuss the design in detail. Thank you so much. Now, we can have just have a brief summary, as you can see our agenda is pretty long today. Briefly, can you tell us how many units or how many rooms, if there is a community space and just general operations of the building? We will never tell you about the general operations building, but the building itself contains 12 units of housing. It's 12,000 square feet plus another 7,000 square feet of the administration and common area space. I think with the analysis, we are proud of that. The progress is used for the supporting programs for the women and families who are living in the house. We have over 90,000 men from 96 square feet in the building which is delivered, which was shaped with a small project and the house that we do not. The building is a pre-floor, let's show you. The building is a pre-floor, with 34,000 in the room of this, the program space on the floor. It's a center, in print, with a satisfy, units on both sides, and two and three billion units, our average cost cost cost cost for the people who work in the building. We can build the plan, use up the study of accessible areas, build out the house, and build the project among them. So Deborah, this is from the housing? Yes, it's great to know. We are so thrilled there. Because we had a project not so long ago where there were questions about operations, the levee, some on-site check ins with the families. Yes, we have a full set of supportive services for the families. We have another building a block over which will serve as the supportive housing center. And so we can, through an economy of scale, we can use the staff at the two-review street site to provide services to the families at 35 Handsboro. We provide workshops for the moms. We have a city of Boston Tech, those home training program. We have use space for after school and summer programs. And we provide a safe place for moms to recover from the trauma that they experienced through the whole cycle of homelessness. Thank you. How did the plans look, Mr. Pazani? The plans are wonderful. Are there any questions from the board? I see that one question. Number of parking spaces actually provided. Yes, so we're only providing two parking spaces. And that's because historically, the group be helps the cause of the nature and the services they provided. Very few people have calls. Any other questions from the board? Anybody to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam the board. Members of the board as well. My name is Farid. The sources are from the mayor's office of the board services for Madam and of the Rochester. This morning, I'd like to go work out and support. And I did have a letter of support from Franklin Field Association. And we greatly support the opposition because they see that it's a big, it's a use program for the community. Thank you. Good morning, board. Nicole, comments from the council. The agency's office. We'd like to go on a record that we absolutely do support the book through house. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Henry Cohen on behalf of the City Council and Michelle Wu. Like to go on record in support. Madam Chair, members of the board. Tom McDonough from City Council. Red Lodge. Steve Murphy's office. Like to go on record in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board of mine. I'm Chris from the Carpenters Union. We'd like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. I'm Kelly Sheaam with the Department of Neighborhood Development. And we are in support of this project. Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval of the art. All those in favor? Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following BOA 434-844-23 down our avenue. Purpose. Partially demolished existing structure. New additions at front. And we are building, create new three family condominium, three stories. Woodframe construction concrete foundations. All new systems. Building to be fully sprinkler. Violations. Article 65, Section 8. Use regulations. Multi-family use for bidding. Article 65, Section 9. Building height excessive. Side yard insufficient. Reary yard insufficient. Article 66, Section 42.5. Barclay size and maneuverability. Your name is addressed for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Nile Sutton. I'm the architect of the project. My address is 197. Eight Street in Charlestown with me today is the owner and developer of the project, Mr. James Reen. This is a small project actually an existing two-family to be renovated and rehabilitated to a three-family. The entire building will be completely rehabbed and we are proposing minor additions at the front and the rear of the building. We have had several meetings with the community association called the Jones Hill Civic Association and we have a letter of support from them which I'd like to give to the board as a matter of record at this point. The community process produced a few minor design changes to the building and as such I'm asking the board to accept the drawings that you currently have in hand as the documented drawings in their dated February 23rd, 2015. This is a conversion from a two-family to a three-family. How large are each of the proposed units? The proposed units are about a thousand square feet with the single, those are units number two and three. The first floor unit is a minor expansion into the existing basement area and as I remember that's about 13 or 1400 square feet. The height is excessive because of the existing structure. No, you're adding a additional floor. Mr. Sutton, the issue is not the height, it's really the story. That's correct. Okay, any other questions from the board? Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of the proposal? Good morning, my name is Sherman. Members of the board, Flavio DeVega, Mayors Office and Abley. We would like to go on record and support this project. With BRA Design and Review, they want the plans to match the characteristic of existing houses in the neighborhood. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council and Frank Baker's office. We would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Council at large, Steve Murphy's office, late to go on record and support. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, Officer City Council at large, Michelle. We would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, Michael Flarrity, would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval, BRA design. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Here are all set. Thank you. Collin Companion cases, BOA 435592 and BOA 435591. 435592, 76 Downer Avenue, 5591, 76 Power Downer Avenue. 76 Downer Purpose Change Occupancy from three apartments. Two renovated existing two and a half story building currently housing three units as per plans. Include two kitchens, all new plumbing and electrical, the addition of public electric meter, original just had one. The alteration of the main building second means of egress to bring into code compliance. Replace all windows, remove siding and repain original clap under. Violation, Article 65, Section 42, two buildings on a lot. The addition 76 are, Downer Purpose is to legalize as a garage and change occupancy from garage to single family. Renovated existing two story building currently being used as a garage as per plans. Includes one new kitchen, all new plumbing and electrical, replace all windows, remove siding and repain original clap under. The Quest Occupancy Committee. Violation, Article 65, Section 41, Office Street Parking, Front Yard Parking. Article 65, Section 42, two dwellings on a lot. Article 65, Section 9, Lot Frontage, Lot Width, Flory Area Ratio, Accessive, Front Yard Insufficient, Side Yard Insufficient, Reary Yard the Insufficient. Your name is an address or the record please. My name is Stuart Shryer. My office is at 1005 Dorchester Avenue in Dorchester. With me is Alan Putman. He is one of the owners, managers of the LLC that owns the property. This project comes about because the house was owner occupied for a long time and neglected. It was in very poor condition. My client bought it and wanted to renovate it. There is a beautiful carriage house behind that was also dilapidated. But the neighbors wanted that carriage house saved. So it needed to have a real use. The front house was a three family. The proposal is to turn the front house, which fronts on down a street, into a two family. The first floor will be in the apartment. The second and third will be one apartment. It will be in a nice duplex. About a little under a thousand square feet on the first floor. Second and third will be a larger apartment, maybe about 1,700 square feet. Going around to the carriage house, this is an ideal location to turn a carriage house into a well-known house. This is a corner lot and the carriage house fronts on soil. So it has direct access to the street. There is no problem with the fire to pop. Getting to a real house, having difficulty fighting a fire. So it is really an ideal situation. We had a meeting at the property. Many neighbors turned out that universally in support because they want to see the carriage house rebuilt because it fits in the character of the neighborhood. We sent a letter of support from the Jones Hill Civic Association, which is fully in support. And at least 30 letters from neighbors that are substantially in support. And how large is this proposed unit in the garage? I think it is about 1,600 square feet, if my memory serves me. And where is parking going to be accommodated? There is parking between the carriage house and the house. I come in off the soil and there is space for I think three. And there will be one car garage in the carriage house underneath the park. So there is some parking available. How do the plans look, Mr. Pazani? The drawings are adequate. Are there questions from the board? There is more than one level in the carriage house. We will leave it to buy level. I think half of the first floor is going to have garage, half like the entrance way. I think the kitchen is on the first floor, I remember correctly. And then the second floor is bedrooms. And it is all within the current. That is correct. There is no addition to it. That is correct. Oh, is this so they will be parking in the carriage house also? That was one of the neighbors concerns. They needed to have parking because Jones Hill is very tight. So they needed to have maximized the parking. Any other questions from the board? Anybody to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. Members of the board, Flavio DeVega, Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Service. I'd like to go on record and support this application. Thank you. Madam Chairman, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council of Frank Baker's office. We would like to go on record and support. And I would also like to thank the applicant for his due diligence and his reach out to the community. More developers should be like this guy. Madam Chairman, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, Michael Flarety. We would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? No further approval would be all right to sign review. There is a second. All those in favor? I'm sorry. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very kindly. Calling BOA-414-864-3385-3389 Washington Street. Purpose is to combine a parcel with this plot, excuse me, an erect a new mixed use building as per plans. Two retail spaces on first floor, 21 residential units, existing building to be raised under different permit. The floor is to be used for parking access on both sides. Violations, Article 55, Section 19, multi-family use for bidding. Article 55, Section 20, floor area ratio, excessive building height excessive. Article 55, Section 40, Austrian parking number of spaces, insufficient size and spaces insufficient. Required loading dock insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 131 Oliver Street in Boston. With me to my immediate right is Brian Mulligan, who is the architect of record on this project as well as my far right, Sean Hanson, who is the representative of the developer. I have passed out to board some plans, renderings and photographs of the site. What's this subject to BRA process? Okay. Okay. There's also on this, on 33, 33, 85-3389 Washington Street. There's also an application request for building code relief. Violation 8-780 CMR 705-.8.1, excessive opening and exterior wall. Yes, and I have correspondence for Mr. Pazani for the building code analysis here too with some revised plans. Just answer your question and give you some background, Madam Chair. Yes, this is an article 80 small project review that was approved by the BRA board on January 15th. Just to give you a little bit of context here, the site, this is a underutilized property site in the Union Avenue area of Jamaica Plain on Washington Street towards the corner of Green Street and Washington. It has been occupied. It's actually vacant now. It's the fried chicken site. There's a standalone restaurant that is vacant there and the rest of the site is surrounded by asphalt. We have worked over the past year diligently and really in a very productive way with the neighbors, a butters around the site and members of the Union Avenue Neighborhood Association. We had several meetings with this group and with the butters were very proud of the support that we've obtained this board. The board received letters of support from three of the directive butters as well as from Kathy Wilder who was the president of the Neighborhood Association. In addition to that outreach, we also met with both the housing and zoning committees of the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. The proposal is to revitalize this site with a mixed use residential and retail development that we think will fit well with the overall emergence and revitalization of Washington Street while respecting the residential butters at the rear. You'll see that in the plans and it also pertains to the zoning case. 21 residential units with ground floor retail. For stories, we have set the fourth level back from the street so that we're respecting the height of 35 feet on Washington Street and stepping up to a modest 44 feet which is a slight deviation from the code. The FAR is also very reasonable. We would suggest at 1.63 and we have 23 parking spaces for 21 residential units. The code requires 1.5 and we work with the community and the BRA on some transit oriented measures. We think the mix of providing one space per unit very close to what would be required considering the close proximity to public transportation is appropriate for the grant. We're asking for. Can you describe what covered parking means? Public parking garage. Because the rear looks like you might have a garage and spate in the rear of the building. Is that right? It's just covered. It's just covered. It's a cardboard. Does that show in the elevation? It does. Because it looks like it's a garage, isn't it? It's a rear elevation, right, Joe? Yeah, along the east side of the building, or west side of the building, in the rear of the building, the ground floor does step in. So it is shown on the elevation is maybe a little difficult for you but the building steps in on those two sides to allow for cars to be overhanged on the second floor. And you did not have retail uses in there yet? Yeah, what we're proposing ground level retail for two spaces. And the building has been set back to kind of comply with the complete streets guidelines and again to provide some life, much needed life on the site and integrate with Washington Street. We don't have a proposed use yet. We'll continue to work with the business association of a neighborhood of that. And one of the plans to look at designing the drawings are adequate. You have questions relative to the building code. Yes, sir. And in fact, my reading of Mr. Mulligan's report is that basically your income finance, right, you have... You revised the building to be... You revised the building. So therefore, the... Why is the building code needed to deny because you're into finance? Yeah, we wanted to review that with the board and there have been... As we provided, the only revisions that are made are to the openings, not to be able to offer the FAR or anything that allows us to comply into the threshold. And the analysis for square footage and percentage faces in case of your finance. Yes, sir. Well... Any other questions from the board? And did you say it's compels or rentals? Right now, we've discussed it as rental, but you know, there's certainly a home ownership parade construction, but it's been discussed as being rental. And there'll be four affordable units there. Two in one bedroom units and we have provided one three bedroom unit, which was a product of the community outreach as well. In addition to that, we voluntarily exceeded the IDP affordability requirements for providing four units. The city requires three, so we're going a little bit further to try to address the need for housing for affordable housing. And what's the size range of the units? The one bedroom is around 658 hundred square feet. The two bedrooms are around 9,000, and about 200 for the one three bedroom. Anybody here who's speaking support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Julie and Dirty Mayor's Office and neighborhood services. At this time, we'd like to go and record of support for this project with BRA Design Review. The applicant and team has been through a community, extensive community process, working with at least four different diverse groups all in the locations area. We do ask and welcome their offer to continue working with the community through not just the design review process, but also the construction as well. And they have agreed to that. And they have also been working closely with their butters. And we do appreciate that very much. And again, like to go and record support with BRA Design Review. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Hannah Smith, on behalf of District City Counselor, Maddo Mallee. We'd like to echo the mayor's office and go on record and support with BRA Design Review. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Councilor Lodz, Steve Murphy's Office. We too would like to go and record and support with BRA Design Review. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Your name and address for the record place? I'm sorry. I'm in support. I'm a direct of butter to the property. Okay. And they've done everything. They've gone beyond what we asked. They've had created a setback on Washington Street of six feet. My house is 85 feet from the back of their building. Plus there's a 10 foot buffer residential of trees and landscape on the back of the property. We've been very happy with that. You've been addressing the record? My name is Frederick Vetterline, 26th Union Ave, which make a plan. Excellent. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval. Continue to be our executive. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? It's all you're all said. Thank you. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-44226667 South Street. Purpose is to change occupancy from one family in plumbing shop to four family dwelling. Total renovation including new sprinkler system installed dormer on roof as per plans. Violation. Article 55 Section 40, Austrian parking and sufficient. Article 55 Section 8, multi-family use forbidden. Article 55 Section 9, a lot area for additional dwelling units in sufficient floor area ratio. Excessive and usable open space in sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Liam Leiden, 16 buildings lane, Jamaica plain. Please tell us what you're proposing. The proposal is for the rehab and renovation of an existing building on the corner of South Street and Custer Street. In Jamaica plain, consist of a rip tearing off the siding on the house, new roof, total new inside, and a dormer up on the east side elevation of that. And what I see that your violations include parking and the multi-family uses forbidden. How many parking spaces are you proposing? Four. And do you know what's required? I believe it's five in that area. Okay. So that's 1.25. Correct. Okay. And what is the zoning? What does the zoning? Three family residential. I'm proposing a four-room. Correct. Could you tell us the size of the units? The units are two units will be between 1,250 and 1,300 square feet. One of the units is 1,320 square feet and the last unit is about 950 square feet. Okay. How do the plants work these? Drawings very adequate. Thank you. Any additional questions from this board? I'm going to close the front door and go in. Yes, sir. Okay. Julianne. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Julianne Dirty, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and record and support this application. He has worked out and reached support with his butters and also the neighborhood council as well. So we would like to go and record. One of the members of the board, Hannah Smith, on behalf of Councillor O'Malley, we'd like to go and record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, also, obviously the council, Michael Flarie, left also going to record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Look for approval with BRA design review. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? They're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-437658188 Hillside Street and companion case B-O-A-437659188 Hillside Street. Purpose. The change occupancy from a three family to a four family dwelling installed to dormers, new kitchen and baths, electrical and plumbing installed sprinkler systems and as per plans. Violations. Article 59, Section 37, Austrian Parking. Article 59, Section 7, multi-family dwelling forbidden. Article 59, Section 8, Lot area for additional dwelling union insufficiency. Floor area ratio, excessive height, excessive, usable open space insufficiency, front yard insufficiency, side yard insufficiency and rear yard insufficiency. On the companion side, building code, violation, Section 504.1, general building height permitted by table 503 should be increased in accordance with this section. Section 504.2, automatic sprinkler system increase. Name and address for the record please. Steven Stocking, 188 Hillside Street, Boston. Mark Porter, NOVA Ken Mark contracting 3720 Washington Street, Jamaica plain. Could you please address the building code violations? Yes, well I'm here to, I want to make a known that I want to use pre-existing attic. Can you speak a little louder please? I want to utilize my pre-existing attic space to build a new owners unit. A new owners unit where I live. I've lived in that home for 21 years and I'm expanding the space in the attic for my own use. How long does that propose unit? It'll be about 1300 square feet. Okay, now you have building code violations that talk about the building height and the automatic sprinkler system increase. Will you be sprinkling that call? Absolutely, yes. Is that height? Well, basically it's an existing building and you renovating the interior and not doing any re-elect here to work. Is that correct? No, we are doing some exterior work that increases the pipe up. Excuse me? Dormer? Yes, two donors on the building. But you are not increasing the height of the building. No, the railing increases on the height. The roof deck railing increases the height. No, I'm not. Okay. Are there definitely sprinkling the building? Absolutely, yes. So you need to build the code of the one-hats with the height and the existing building that exceeds the height for a lot. And you are going to sprinkle the building. That's correct. No building of code of the collection of water. So we are going to deny that. We will deny building code relief because you are sprinkling the most of the one. And the height is a result of the fact that we now sprinkle building until it comes out. So is there a second? Is there a second? All those are in favor? We are just looking at the building code. Is there a motion? Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? So the building code request has been denied. So will you please now speak to the construction you are proposing three to a four family with the installation of two donors? The fourth unit is proposed to be 1400 square feet. What are the sizes of the other two units? They are around 1300 square feet. And what parking is being proposed? Permanent on the street parking. The only pre-existing permanent on street parking. There is no driveway to this property. It's existing that way. I see. Okay. And what would be required in the zoning? Probably five spaces just like the other one. Any questions from board? Additional questions from board? All those in favor? Please put your name and address in the record. Madam Chairman, members of board. My name is Leonard Lilliston. I live next board 180 Hillside Street. I've been Steve's neighbor for the past 10 years. And I'm in support of this project. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm the board, Chair in Audembourg, Office of Neighborhood Services. Well, the applicant has garnered support. Unfortunately, our office cannot support this at this time. Thank you. What? Mr. Theresa? There's been concerns about, from residents about, the uptick in housing. Particularly student housing, and that's been a concern. We understand that this constituent as well, as is about, do you keep up their properties? There's been no ground bling and concern about that. What? There's been a concern about the uptick in student housing, particularly on Hillside. Thank you. So how many bedrooms are in the entire building? Nine bedrooms, three on each floor. And the proposing would be a two bedroom unit. I would point out that I went to two community meetings and received very strong, if not, you meant we didn't need to. Nana and the support at those meetings. And I do have letters of support from my immediate neighbors. This will remain on a occupied. Oh, yes. I've been there for 20 years. Mission Hill is my home. I don't plan. I hope to retire there, yes. Well, though, we do have to remember that this relief goes with the building and not the owner. Okay. Is there a motion? Madam Chair, one question. In terms of the parking, because I live in Mission Hill as well, I mean, how do you propose to address the issue of parking? I know there is. Well, I would say, you know, the parking, it's something. I live on a corner and there's, it's all resident parking on both sides of the house. The parking has been very available for quite a few years now. In fact, when I pull out by almost always pulling in front of the house, there's always ample parking in that immediate area. So, go ahead. So, this is currently a three family house. Yes. And you are occupying the top floor unit. That is correct. And you're looking to expand that unit into the attic space and the attic dormant. That's right. So, then? No, he's talking about adding an additional unit. Not just an expansion of the third unit. No, no, but he's looking to expand that top floor unit into the attic, right? He's expanding the well, opening up that building in the attic. The attic is a huge space now, but that's the space that's not being used and that's the space that would become the new unit. Oh, and the new unit? Yes. But it's extended within the framework of the existing building. So, that's correct. No, it's putting two normalments. And two normalments. Thank you. And the staff recommendation from the BRA is for denial. As this is said, an unwarded precedent and is inconsistent with the three family district. The overall makeup of the neighborhood there on that street in that area is four units, three to four units. The street view that is attached does show, if in your packages does show, for the most part, for the weed family or even less. So, what is the pleasure of the boy? I would move a pose. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Or aye. Opposed. Two opposed. I'm voting with the opposition. No, it's tonight. It's tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-408-383-116, Marine Road. Purpose. Build rear addition to assisting three family dwelling with proposed private roof deck. Rear side deck balcony and spiral stairways as per plan submitted. In the final violation, Article 15 Section 1, floor area ratio is excessive. Article 17 Section 1, usable open space, is insufficient. Article 19 Section 1, side yard, is insufficient. Article 20 Section 1, rear yard, is insufficient. Name and address for the record. The Roni Madam Chair, members of the board, the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by the project owner and developer Ted DeHurren, seated to my right. Madam Chair, members, this is an application for a rear addition to add living space to an existing three family dwelling on Marine Road in South Boston. The plans excerpts, which I submitted to the board, depict the proposed addition to the rear of the property. The addition would be approximately 15 and a half feet by 15 and a half feet square. The purpose of the addition is to add an additional bedroom onto each unit as well as some usable outdoor space. The unit first unit, which is a basement in first floor unit, would therefore go from being a two bedroom to a three bedroom unit. And units two and three would each become two bedroom units. So the addition actually does provide so much needed living space for what are currently fairly small units. The second floor would also benefit from a modest sized wraparound deck. There would be a small deck on the third floor measuring 10 feet by three and a half feet. And there is also a proposed 12 by 15 foot roof deck that is the access by a roof hatch only. One of the cited violations is in fact an insufficient rear yard, but I would point out to the board that there's still, even with this addition, would be a 26 foot rear yard remaining in the back of the proposed addition where it would be approved. Mr. Orancy, does the spiral stick case work as the second means of begress? The three family would not. It is intended to provide access. The building would be fully sprinkled at however. Okay. Any questions from this board? What are the plans for Mr. Pisani? I have one question. What is the existing floor-per-seeing kind of invention for? It's about a feet. And so you're adding a basement bedroom? It's a Missouri basement living space in the building. It's very pre-existing. Right. But the addition. We're not adding in the addition in the basement. The plan shows a bedroom. Oh, I'm sorry. On the floor. With, I guess, on the floor. On the floor. On the floor, you and I. Sorry. That's the egress window. That's great. So on the unit one, you're adding two bedrooms in the rear addition. Correct. One on the first floor, and a basement bedroom with the rear egress well. Any other questions from the board? Anybody to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Eric Prentice Mayor's Office and the board of Services, would like to own record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Lenny Hens Office, so we'd like to go on record and support as well. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Councilor at Lodd, Steve Murphy's Office, we too would like to go on record and support. If I could, I'd like to just, I was out of the room for, for, B-O-A, 4-4-2-2-6667 South Street, and we'd like to go on record and support of that case as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Salmucinic, Councilor Michael Flaherty, would like to also go on record and support for this project. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Yes. Motion for approval. The area is in motion. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Calling B-O-A, 429-430-275, all calling the out. The purpose is to remove existing one-story commercial building, change occupancy room, the residential, build new 14 residential units with two commercial retail units, 14 indoor parking spaces. Violations, Article 8, Section 7, retail use is a conditional use, Article 13, Section 4, dwellings and non-residential district, Article 14, Section 14-2, a lot area for additional dwelling units is insufficient, Article 15, Section 1, floor area ratio is excessive, Article 17, Section 1, useable open space insufficient, Article 18, Section 1, required front yard insufficient, Article 20, Section 1, required rear yard insufficient, Article 16, Section 1, building height excessive, three stories maximum allowed, building height excessive 35 feet, maximum allowed. Name and address for the record please. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is George Moran. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in Sel Boston. I'm doing by the project owner and developer Stuart Malawi. This is an application to replace an existing commercial property. This had been an automotive garage for as long as I can remember. For decades, certainly it is located on Old Colony Avenue near a proper circle, directly across from the Holmes et al. Old Colony, which is a 245 residential unit redevelopment of the former Old Colony projects, housing development, which is in the final phases of its completion. The zoning is an L.5 sub-district, so there is H-150 applicability. In the refusal letter, the reference to Article 13, Section 4, is of course not a violation. It's simply a reference to the fact that certain of the dimensional regulations that pertain to H-150 are applicable to residential construction in an L-5 district. I do not believe that the retail use has recited in the refusal letter is in fact conditional since this is an L.5 local business district. With respect to the other violation cited, the lot size is 10,109 square feet. There is violation attributable to an insufficient lot size for the 14 proposed dwelling units and the two ground floor commercial units. However, the resulting density here is 1.9, which I think this board would recognize as a fairly modest FAR in terms of recent redevelopment projects in South Boston. Overall, I think replacing what has been a somewhat noxious automotive use over the past numerous decades to a residential use in this neighborhood is certainly, I think, preferable. It is the trend, as I say, with the residential redevelopment occurring directly across the street while the Zonedell 0.5, this is, in fact, becoming much more of a strong residential neighborhood. The building itself would be four stories. The fourth story is very minimal. It is, in fact, the 14th unit only. There were originally four roof decks for use of other units in the building, but there was some concern by residents on the rear-abutting Jenkins street about the roof decks and the proximity of those roof decks to their homes. My client met with those butters and agreed to remove the roof decks, the plans that had been submitted to the board today, that it would the board architect reflect the fact that the four roof decks that were for units other than unit 14, the top floor unit, have been removed by my client. The total building height would be 41 stories because of pocket decks provided for the other units. There would be approximately 128 square feet of usable open space per unit. And there would be 14 parking spaces provided in the ground level garage for the 14 residential units. Thank you. How did the plans look with the designing? The garage rack was kind of hard to find. Yes. The building was not having a whole list of the set ground. Correct. It's substantially a three-story building. Well, it's three stories except for the fourth unit. Using a list to it for the accessibility requirements, how was I proposing the handling accessibility? Obviously, there has been no relief sought from the ADA. So the building will need to comply with in terms of accessibility. My supposition is that the architect will need to install a lift inside the building to provide access to an accessible unit. Any other questions from the board? Any anybody who speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, our apprentice mayor's office name board services. We'd like to go on record and support. With the undertaking that's going on along the colony avenue, we feel like this will be a good fit in the neighborhood. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Linahann's office. We'd like to go on record and support as well. This is consistent with what we'd like to see going forward. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, Michael Flourty. We'd like to go on record and support this project and also commend the proponent for his willingness to work with residents in his extensive outreach and getting all parties to agree on our final design. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McDonough from City Council, at large. Steve Murphy's office, like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you, if anybody here to speak in opposition. What is the pleasure of the board? Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion to grant the relief requested with BRH design appeal. But put the advisor on it, there is no building co-relief granted relative to accessible. There is a unit in the first floor, which I overlooked. I was aware of that and it just didn't resonate when you asked the question, Mr. Desani. Right corner of the building, there is a ground floor unit one. So there's a motion, is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set. Thank you very much. Thank you. Following for the 1030 hearings, are there any requests for what they're all so referrals? Thank you. Name and address for the record, please. Jeff Drago, 62B commercial law of east. B-O-A-441576 320 Maverick Street. 320 Maverick Street. Okay. What are your requesting? Seeking a deferral, this project was slated to go before the February 12th, BRA Board Meeting, a fraudical lady process. And we also had that canceled, but also our community meeting with the BRA was canceled as well. We are slated to go before the March BRA hailing date on March 12th. Okay. So based on the fact that this needs to conclude its article, lady, process what is the pleasure of the board? Motion to defer. There are seconds. All those in favor? All right. A date. April 7th, 1130. Great. Thank you very much. This is Maverick Street 320 Maverick Street. They're all set. Thank you. Other withdrawals and deferrals. Let's see the address. 27 and 31 barrel street in Rosendale. Just for the record, there is no financial interest that I have, but this project is proposed by a neighbor of mine. So I'm just going to be recusing myself for this minute. Could you state your name and address for the record and the reason for your request? Turning Anthony Ross, 343 Belgrade Avenue in Rosendale. The reason for a request for deferral is that there have previously been a community meeting in this matter for these two proposed dwellings. And when the date for this hearing was set after conferring with the public officials, we did not think another neighborhood meeting would be required. In the interim, the mayor's office has gotten a couple calls with questions. So we have a community meeting set up for next week. And so we'd like to request the briefest possible deferral. After the last neighborhood meeting, there was no opposition. So we think perhaps, and it was well attended meetings. So we think with the meeting next week, we'll be ready to move forward and we request the briefest possible deferral. What is the slide for the board? Motion for deferral. Second. April 7, 1130. Thank you. Any more requests? What's the address? 81 and 83 Thurin Street, 435-588-5590. A name and address for the record, please. My name is John Tillman, one Thompson Square in Charlestown. I represent the property owner and the proponent. We're requesting a deferral. We met, we had the first chance to meet with the butters last night and they had several objections. My client would like to be able to discuss those with his architect who's presently out of town before we decide what we're going to do with the proposal. Is there, what is there else in this floor? All those in favor? In the post. So you want to put it to? April 21, 1130. Thank you very much. Any other withdrawals or deferrals? One more. 411-30. What is the address? Two St. Martin Street, Charlestown. It's two St. Martin Street, Charlestown. That's for 1130. We're taking the 1030 here itself. Okay. We are moving forward. Calling BOA438281-242-244 West Broadway. This is changed occupancy from three apartments in professional office to three apartments in the driving school. No alterations to interior are required to remove provisional under VCC29149, permit away to dash 2 by 6 to violation. Article 57, section 26, off street parking required for the new driving school use. Article 57, section 8, driving school use is the forbidden use in the zoning district. Name and address for the record please. Raphael Hanley, 16 Barbara Road, West Newton. Enderman, one 159, 188. Okay. So what was the proviso on VCC29149? I believe it was law office as to subject to design review by the Boston Redevelopment Authority to this applicant only for law office only. Law office use. Okay. So since 2007, Mr. Mann has operated his family owned driving school at 246 West Broadway. That building has been or is about to be sold and he has been asked to vacate that premises. He now wishes to lease 242 West Broadway for the purpose of his driving school. He has provided a benefit to the community to the youth of South Boston and wishes to remain in that neighborhood. No, at 246 did he have off street parking there? No, man, he did not. He did not. Okay. And what are his hours of operation? Five and six. Five and six. Five and six. And including Saturdays. Yeah. Including Saturdays. Yeah. Okay. How did the plans look, Mr. Designee? Plans are out of it. Yeah. Any questions from the board? Since there was no off street parking at the current location, was there been a variance granted for that? At the current location at 246? Yeah. I'm not aware of that. I could actually have the documents right here. I believe not. There was no problem with no parking at 246 West Broadway. Okay. Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Eric Crentis, Mayor's Office of the Aboult Services, like current support, as a proponent stated, this is pretty much what the business move is going to be. This address right next door with the Ross Motors actually being getting ready to convert to a 12 units of residential. Eric, what is the parking situation there? If somebody comes to drop their youngster off for a driving class, is there adequate parking there? So, we're in South Boston, so there's no such thing as adequate parking. But no. So, no, that's the stretch along West Broadway, kind of near the foodies in the Burger King where there's on street parking. Mostly drop-offs are double parks. Double park and drop-off. May I address that issue, Madam Chair? One minute. Thank you. Go ahead. Oh. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison from Council President Linahann's Office, we'd like to go on record and support and echo the statements of the Mayor's Office. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solve, City Council and Michael Flaherty, echoing the sentiments of the Mayor's Office as well as District Council, it's going record and support. Thank you. Is there anybody to speak in opposition? Go ahead. Madam Chair, I have found that in that area, Burger King does have its own quite large parking lot. Foodies have its own off-street parking. And because of the development directly across the street, that provides a numerous amount of spaces that are dedicated solely to that, to people that are residents of that project, the parking is really not as bad as it may be in other parts of South Boston. Okay. What is the pleasure of the board? Move the approval to the second set. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? So you're all set? Will there be views on each going up? Yes. Are they great? Are they great in the front of the bill? No, they were not. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Following BOA 355 129 227 Newberry Street. Purpose is to change occupancy of six apartments, cleaners shop floor shop, the six apartments, cleaners shop and prep kitchen, arrest run in 225 Newberry. Legalizing existing kitchen for restaurant scissors and pie. Violation article eight, section seven, use item 36A conditional. Name and address for the record please. Dennis Quilty, excuse me, attorney of the term Quilty and Miller, representing the applicant with me is Mitchell DeRosa, who is the owner of operator. And Mr. Rizani Elzing formed by my client, that is contractor, filed all these plans originally. I'll have to provide another copy. I don't have to. If it's of any help as the citation indicated, it's an existing condition that's, he seeks to legalize this very odd building, 225, 227 Newberry Street joint ownership. His lease includes this space in question. Space in question is part of predecessor operations for many, many years. The famous Newberry pizza was in this site for probably 25 years, followed by another place that went out of business, followed by Mr. DeRosa. When he went to file an application, he did renovations. It was determined that the slice, the tiny slice of the kitchen that resides in the other side of the building needed really. So it's- I think that can calculate it just for the record. When I did do plans preview, no drawings exist, no that I don't. Specifically, you're here when you said your contractor did not file plans for this application. I mean, you obviously had to file on for you to get your letter of rejection. Yeah. But where they are in ISD. But I mean, it's a pretty simple case. I will provide- If it needs to look at the original based on the provision of those plans, we'll certainly be writing my apologies. I specifically asked before him, I client thought that the plans were within the file, I took another's work. He took- Not for our current work, I'll provide them to you. It is indeed a- As I suggested, he's been a business there for over a year or a year. Any other questions on the board? Anybody to speak in support of this proposal? Shana? Good morning, madam. Can you remember the board? Shana, Auburn, Mayor of the Office of the Neighborhood Services. Like the Lord, they can support- They've met with the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. They wrote a letter of non-opposition to the case. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Council at large. Steve Murphy's office, we too would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of board? Motion for approval. And the only condition is that we will hold signature until you submit the plans. It's an existing no-one, there's no exterior work being done at this. Right, that makes sense. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you. Thank you. Calling BOA-434-564-39-41 Mount Vernon Street. Purpose. Change of occupancy from office use to seven residential apartments, renovated existing building is for plans. Install new interior finishes for new apartment layouts, upgrade existing plumbing system, upgrade existing HVAC system, upgrade existing electrical system, upgrade existing fire order system, upgrade existing, sparkly system, and upgrade existing elevator at seven-story addition. Violations are number 15, section one, floor area ratio excessive, Article 16, section one building height excessive, Article 17, section one, open space insufficient, Article 23, section one, off-speed parking insufficient. Name and address for the record. Madam Chairwoman and members of the board, I'm Ken Lyons, I'm the attorney for the owner, Mount Vernon Partners LLC. And I'm Nancy Sedecki with Meyer and Meyer Architects. Thank you, so you're proposing to change legal occupancy from an office, seven residential units, and to add a seventh-story addition. Yes, that's correct. The existing building was constructed in 1917. It's a legally non-conforming use as commercial office and press for the Unitarian Church for the last 20 plus years. We're seeking to go from a non-conforming use to a conforming use of residential. We've had the opportunity to meet with many neighbors and go before the Beacon Health Civic Association. And this is a change that the neighborhood welcomes, and also furthers the goal of providing housing that's large enough for families on Beacon Hill. So how large are each of the proposed units? The units are roughly 3,300 square feet each, and the top unit will be just over 4,000. And how many bedrooms? There are three bedrooms each for the units. These are the condos or rentals, do you know what they get? Condominiums is the plan. What price are they? I'm not the financial guy in the equation. These are not affordable units. No, no, they would be market-rate units, sir. And then is any parking being proposed on the site? Well, the site, the building occupies almost the entire site. So there's no ability to create off-street parking. However, we have worked very closely with the Beacon Health Civic Association, and we're working on handling the parking with perhaps a drop-off zone and garage parking off-site. Do you have any concern about five of these rural 3,000s work-put units? In which... A affordability? We're required under IDP. We wouldn't even review it. Correct. Even though it needs a affordable housing, but they're not required to. No, I know. From a zoning perspective. How do the plans look, Mr. Bazzani? Plans are terrific as always. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Shane Oberg, Reads Office and Neighborhood Services. Our office could be heard on record in support of this application. This product has gone through a long community process. We just asked that they continue to work with the butters with traffic concerns. So they heard that was a concern of some of the butters. We also have Tom Clements here from the Beacon Health and Association. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mohona City, on behalf of Councillor Josh Stakeham, would like to echo the comments of the mayor's office, and would like to go on record in support. Tom? Small burn in street. Tom McDonough from City Council at large, Steve Murphy's office, like to go on record in support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, and my name is Paula Harback, and I'm representing the Condo Association that's the Director of Butters, the 37 Mount Vernon Street, and we also would like to fully support the proposed conversion of the commercial building to residential space, including the compromised solution that we worked out for parking, and we're very grateful to Daniel René for bending over backwards to keep the neighbors informed throughout the process, because it does demonstrate, I think, their respect for the Beacon Hill historic district and consideration of its residents. Thank you. Madam members of the board, Tom Clemens, Beacon Hill Civic Association's owning and licensing, would like to go on record in support of the application. There's been an extensive community process in connection with this project. I'd like to echo what Shaina said about working on the parking, which we continue to do with the applicant, and just note that there is an addition on the roof of this building, which in normal circumstances would be a concern to the civic association and the butters, but given the height of the building, the height of the parapet on the roof at this point, the fact that they're removing significant HVAC and elevator facilities from the roof, the neighbors are very pleased with the addition. We don't think it's going to be a serious impact on anybody, so we fully support the project. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval, and this goes back to Beacon Hill for continuing the review, and the rise of that the applicant can see you toward with the neighbors for satisfactory resolution to the parking. All those in favor? Very nice. Any opposed? Opposed? Okay. This one opposition. The motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. Calling B-O-A-436-873-329-329A-Columbus Avenue. Purpose. Change occupancy from a restaurant lounge number 37. Three three apartments in office to a restaurant lounge number 37 and four apartments. Renovate interior unit number one into a new two bedroom apartment, including a new kitchen bathroom living dining room and home office. Violations, Article 64, Section 13, Useable Open Space Insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Cindy Larson, Center Point Architects, 561 Windsor Street, Somerville Mass. So you're proposing to change the occupancy from three restaurant lounge and from three apartments to four apartments. Correct. Can you tell us the size of each unit please? The unit that we are working on is 840 square feet and I believe that the other units are of similar square foot area. They're directly above each other. Any other homes? Bedrooms? Are they all? One bedroom? They're all two bedrooms. They're all two bedrooms. Okay. How do the clouds look Mr. Pazani? Drawings are adequate. Are you just a building? It is not and we are working with ISD with regards to the second bedroom. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jordan D.C. from the Mayor's Office and Abidance Services. I'd like to go on record and support. We did have an embudder's meeting and all of the residents in the building support the change of use. There are quite a few concerns of the restaurant owners below the space. So we've discussed with them and asked them to work with the proponent on a construction management plan to make sure that their business isn't affected and talk about soundproofing and things like that. But other than that we feel confident that they will uphold that and like to go on record and support. Another residence mostly working professionals or students? Yeah, the two residents that came to the meeting were working professionals. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Linnahann's Office. We'd like to go on record in strong opposition at this time. We don't feel this project can move forward at this stage. There is still a lot of opposition and unanswered questions specifically around the construction plan. But also the basic incompatibility of the use. There's also no hardship. There's no reason this can't continue to be used as a commercial space. We would support a deferral so we could take this up in a month or some weeks, but we can't support this at this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, Commissioner is Tom McDonough from City Council at large. Steve Murphy. We'd like to go on record in strong opposition as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, City Council, Michael Flarety. Echoing sentiments of President Linnahann's Office, we'd also like to go on record in opposition. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. James Sutherland on behalf of Boston City Council at large. I honor Presley. Also, I'd like to go on record in opposition. Thank you. Thank you. Are you also speaking opposition? Anybody in support? Let me just keep to the format. Anybody here to speak in support? Anybody to speak in opposition? Hi, my name is James Cochner. I'm a resident of Charlestown. I'm the owner of the restaurant, Cohen Abarra Kitchen, in the first floor of 329 Columbus Ave. We've been there for seven and a half years. It's always been since we've owned the restaurant, a commercial space above us that acted as a buffer between the activities of the restaurant sound. We're open until 1 a.m. with patrons outside and exhaust system to the rear of the building. I just have real concerns with someone moving into this unit. It's not going to be on a rocky pod. It's going to be another rental. The other people right here already own two other units in the building. And it's just rental income. We've been totally excluded from the process. I've been more than willing to sit down and talk to these people about our concerns. As far as noise and complaints about exhaust and our hours of operation, I just don't feel it's been inclusive at all. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Would you like to make any comments in response to what you've heard? Yes, we have reached out to the owner of the condo that the restaurant is operating out of. They have indicated that they would prefer it to be residential, but we do not have anything in writing right now. We're more than happy to work with the restaurant once we move forward with the actual construction plans and construction management. They were delivered a notice about the neighborhood meeting. I'm sorry they said that they did not get it. I'm sorry that I regret that they weren't there so that we could start these discussions earlier. Thank you. I just wanted to add, for the fliering, you guys know our process. Everyone in the 300 foot radius was flired. Somebody at their restaurant was given a flyer. Whether or not that flyer made it into the owner's hands is not something that we can be really held accountable for. It was definitely an inclusive process. Only two of others showed up. So that is our process. And as of right now, these two gentlemen, which we are working with and we have asked them to work on a construction management plan with, so that their business isn't affected are the only ones that I've heard any opposition for in this came in yesterday. So just in terms of the process. Any other questions from the board? What is the pleasure of the board? I'd like to make a motion to defer this. I think things can be worked up. There are lots of situations in the South-N-Ware. There are restaurants and street level engines. Second. All those in favor? Right. Any opposed? What is the date Mr. Arleick? April 21st at 1130. Thank you very much. All right. Calling B-O-A-437-377. 31 Monument Avenue, Charles Down. Purpose is the construction of a new roof deck located on both the existing two-story alleys extension on the main roof connected by an internal external spiral staircase. Access is through existing sidewalk level three. There will be no headhouse access. Violations, Article 62, Section 25, roof structure restrictions, Article 62, Section 8, Rear yard and sufficient. Damon, address for the record please. Damien Zari, 31 Monument Avenue. I'm sorry, did that say you're proposing a roof deck? Can you give us a sense of what the size is? Oh, sure. So first, you know, the home is a three-story 1855 Victorian and there's a two-story rear extension. So we're proposing about a 220 square foot roof deck on the extension and about a 560 square foot roof deck on the main house. And that's connected by an external staircase with no headhouse access. And that's actually through an existing door on the rear facade. There used to be a roof deck there at one point by the previous owner. How do the clients look Mr. Pazani? Dronger Adam. And any questions from board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Tom McKay, Marys Officer Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. We did have a community meeting regarding this proposal last week. I've also had no residents reach out with opposition. Outside of that meeting, I've had a few residents reach out saying that they're supportive of this. The deck is pulled back so it's not something you should be saying from the street. So we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. The Chair and members of the board, Judy, have a seat of council. Sal, I'm a team as I have decided. Tend to that community meeting. It went very well. And the council wishes to one record and support. Madam Chair and members of the board, Tom McKay, done on from the City Council at large. Steve Murphy's office. We too would like to go on record and support. Thank you. This is two or three families. That's a single family home. Yeah. And what is the question for the board? Motion for approval. Here are your comments. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Oh, sorry. Did you say your vote? I did. Samarck Arlington is opposed. Calling B-O-A-43-5-5-90. I'm sorry. Those are deferred. Let me restate those. Calling B-O-A-444722-80. Faywood Street. Faywood Avenue. And Companding K-H-B-O-A-4447-2-3. 80 Faywood Avenue. Let's just take a minute break for the video and audio. Faywood Avenue. Faywood Avenue. Come and set up. I think I can just call it. B-O-A-444722-80. Faywood Avenue. And Companding K-H-B-O-A-4447-2-3. 80 Faywood Avenue. Purpose. Directly three families dwelling on vacant lot at 80. Faywood Avenue. Violations. Article 53 Section 8. Three family dwelling unit is a forbidden use. Article 53 Section 9. Floor area ratio is excessive. Item excessive. Item excessive. To an half-stories and 35 feet. Useable open spaces insufficient. Required minimum front yard is insufficient. Required minimum side yard is insufficient. Minimum required rear yard set back is insufficient. Article 53 Section 56. Ostrary parking design. And the Companding K-H-B-O-A-4447-2-3. Building code relief. Violation, architectural access board. Chapter 9, section 9.2. New construction, multiple dwellings for which building permits for new construction. Our issue shall meet requirements of 521-CMR. Name and address for the record, please. Any more? 75. Any more? Any more? Chris Paravas, 49 Appleton Street, Melrose Mass. Please briefly describe to us what you're proposing. The, essentially, it's a three family dwelling in a residential neighborhood that is made up of one, two, three, up to, I think, six unit buildings. It has a heavy residential field to it. The property itself has approximately a five-foot retaining wall across the front of the, the bound on the street side. It slopes up towards the back of the property and clients actually fairly, seemingly towards the rear of the property up towards, I think, the next three levels. And the G-P-P-P-P-P-P. Now, these are a lot of violations. Can you just walk us through? Because, first of all, it's for, for, for venues. This is a one family district and you're proposing a three family. Right. Okay. One family, four thousand. How large is this locked? It's a 4,000 square foot lock. So, as a bright, you could essentially build a single family dwelling and you're proposing to cripple that. Correct. Okay. And as a result, your FAR, tell us about the height. The, the FAR is, is 1.11. The height of the building actually is 34 feet 4 inches from average grade to, to the average roof height. That because it's three stories rather than two and a half than its violation. Probably. I'm not sure what that is. Yeah, maybe it's probably the, the two and a half story. Now, what's the, what's the front here and that's required and what you're proposing? The, the front yard is, see it's 15 feet, we're proposing 12. On the side yards we're proposing, it required is 10 and we have 10 feet on one side, six feet on the other. And the rear yard minimum is 35, we have 28. And then off street parking design. Parking, parking, and posing. We're providing three parking spaces under the dwelling and it's in the garage. Is that, is that 10 parking? I'm sorry. Is that 10 and parking? They're side by side. Okay. And what's, okay. What's the parking requirements? It's probably 1.5. I think it's, I thought it was one unit per, per, per, per unit. Okay. Okay. How do the plans look as the design? Plan is fine. The question comes about as follows. Why aren't you providing accessibility? Partly, the issue is to get off street parking on such an narrow lot, to best to get the parking underneath the building. We're confronted with an issue where we have a property that right at the street, we're already at five feet with a retaining wall. We're always sloping the drive up one foot from sidewalk to the garage entry. And in meeting with the architectural access board, what we're looking to do is get a waiver to not build the lift as part of the project, but leave the structure set up so that a lift can be provided in the future should it be? Yeah. The concern I have is as follows. I'm going to want to set brand new building. Okay. So the code constraints are known from day one. And I think that what is happening is you're just trying to cram too much in a small project. And this member would make a motion to deny building code relief. Zero second. Second. All those in favor? All right. Okay. So the building code relief is to run. Do you have questions about the proposal itself, the design? Well, I think they may reveal themselves in discussion. Okay. Any other questions from the board? No? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jennifer Maria on behalf of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record of support. The applicants have gone through the community process and residents feel really good about this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, can you give us any comments on sale? Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sol, the University Council, Michael Flare, would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, Officer City Council, at large, Michelle Wool, would like to go on record and support. Thank you, is anybody here to speak in opposition? Please stand up and put your name and address on the record. My name is Charles DePremma, 440 Saratoga Street East Washington, but I also own the Abutting Property next to this proposed project. I did go to the Abutters meeting. I talked to a lot of the neighbors up there and everyone I talked to was very pleased with the design. I was modified and revised at several times. And compared to the existing houses on the other side of my house is a four-story condominium building with no parking. It doesn't really fit the design and their house matched the other designs of the houses on the street, the height, the size. And they have some parking which we've seen very pleased with and it looked great. I don't mind it next to a house that I own. It's your house that what looks like a single family owner is the one next to it. The single. The single. Yeah. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? Yes, good morning. My name is Thomasine Capasso and I own and live at the property behind the proposed building as well as the house next door which belongs to my mom. Now, I'm in opposition only because of the size and also because there's not that much space I feel for that lot. Thank you. And the staff recommendation from the BRA is that this would be denied without prejudice because the proposed three family dwellings excessive and should be reduced to a two family. What is the pleasure for it? Madam Chairman, I'd like to make a motion to deny the law prejudice on a complete agreement with the BRA. Simply too much is trying to be crammed into this project. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Is that denied with our prejudice? And I will all praise. Do we want straight denial because we do not want to see a three family? No, deny all of the prejudice. Okay. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Yes. So that you've heard the discussion. So thank you. Thank you. Calling BOA-44156-176-176-Webster Street. Purpose is to erect a new steel frame deck. Violation is Article 53 Section 9 side yard insufficient. Name and address of the record please. Good morning, Madam Chairwoman Richard Lins, 1216, many to Street, East Boston. On behalf of Chris Hayden's with me, the owner of the property. And the petitioner, very simple, straightforward presentation relative to a deck off the rear of the second unit of a condominium. This matter has made a presentation before the Jebri's Point Neighborhood Association for which a butters were present. Considering the, I guess, the small complexity of this project, it didn't warrant multiple meetings in the community. I would point out there is a member of the condominium association who is present. We didn't have a chance to speak to them. There is an internal concern over what consent may be necessary. I know that has nothing to do with zoning decisions or this board's action and certainly the board connected dependent of what is contained in a master deed. I can't submit on the record that to the extent that any consent is necessary, we intend to obtain that. We would not proceed with construction without the appropriate consent to the extent that we would require. I did have a chance to speak to the mayor's office and they had asked us to take a deferral until such time as we worked out issues with the Condo Association. I'm not inclined to do that with all due respect to the mayor's office considering that the issues will remain regardless of whether this board acts. We would ask this board to proceed with our request for relief at which time we will then work out whatever issues remain with the association. This is a proposal for the construction of the 14 by 14 and a half foot deck off of unit two. It's correct. Okay, is there a roof underneath it or what is underneath it? There would be an open patio area underneath it which is exclusive to unit one. Unit three has their exclusive space. This would just essentially be the exclusive space for unit two. The master deed, I know this is getting in the weeds with the board. The master deed is specific that unit two is allowed to have a deck off the rear. The question is what type of consent is necessary? I'm going to apply this on the floor. It's broadly radically. Are there any other questions from the board? There is nothing there. Unit one has open space above their yard and you are proposing the 14 by 14 foot deck. That unit two which will cover unit one's space. We already have a deck. The three has a deck and exclusive rights to the roof or roof deck. Unit one has courtyard rights. I would point out that the deck would be sent back 40 feet from the rear property line. There is ample space beyond the deck for open space for that unit owner. What is the size of the unit three deck? Roughly the same size that's above that's accessed from the unit three unit and then additional space above the top of the roof. I would point out that the master deed when all unit owners purchased it was quite clear that unit two has deck rights. The issue is whether or not consent is necessary. That's a legal title matter that we're prepared to deal with. Any other questions from the board? Who is here to speak and support? Who is here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jennifer Maria, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to strongly oppose this project beforehand. We had agreed on a deferral so that they would have the opportunity to go back and resolve any issues with the abutters. I have gotten many concerns in terms of the size of the deck. We would support a deferral but if not, we would strongly oppose it. I have a question. Is the whatever the internal condo issues aside have there been concerns from abutting properties? Yes, in terms of the size of the deck. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Yes, I live on 176th Webster Street on the first floor unit that this deck would be over the yard. Just for some clarification, there is no- It's a rooftop paddler that's open. Right now, the back of the building is completely open. My opposition is just in terms of common space being used to construct the deck and that we are looking for condo association approval before anything moves forward. But this deck, which is what he talked about. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Any statement you need to make? Very briefly. I want to make sure there's no confusion. I didn't agree to a deferral. I indicated that we would speak to the condo unit owners and determine whether or not the deferral is necessary. If this board isn't inclined to grant a deferral in light of association issues, I'm glad to take the deferral. I just, my practice before this board understood that condo association issues are things that are dealt with separately and apart from this board. And if we need consent, we know what we need to do with respect to that. This board's decision would have no bearing on that at all. That's true. Any other questions on the board? Is there a motion? Make a motion for approval. There are seconds. With the array seconds. There are seconds. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? I'm opposed. I vote with the motion so it's a group with the array assigned. Thank you very much. That's it. It's time for the 1130 rediscussions. 10th for 1130 session. The deferrals. Let's see address. Good morning. Two dash four. St. Martin Street, Charlestown. And name and address for the record and the reason for the request. Philip Moses, homeowner, reason for the request. We hired a new team of local designers and permanent attorneys. And wish they could get those designs into the abutters seeking this next possible statement. Two, all the people who are here today who are requesting the deferrals. Just a quick note. We've already been deferred at least once. So please give us a reason why you're requesting a second deferral. I've hired a new set of architects. Have you started your community process? Oh, yes. Okay. Thank you. What is the pleasure of the board? What is it? Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. So what is the date, Mr. Erlich? May 5th at 1130. Thank you. What's the address? 175 Howard Avenue. All right. The two companion cases. That's correct. All right. Name and address for the record please and the reason for the request. Stuart Shryer, 1005, Dorchester, Avenue, Dorchester. We had it deferral once before. We were scheduled to meet with Project Wright. Project Wright had a cancel there meeting because of the snow. Nobody could get to the meeting. We did also have a community meeting and that was in conclusive. The same number of people were in favor of the project as opposed to it. So we really need to, at the request of the city, we're requesting a one-walk deferral so we can meet with Project Wright. Thank you. All those in favor? All right. The date, Mr. Erlich? May 5th at 1130. Thank you. And I have one more. What address is that? 530 East Broadway. 530 East Broadway. Name and address for the record please and your reason for the request. Stuart Shryer, 1005, Dorchester, Avenue and Dorchester. The reason for the request is at the request of some of the abutters we made some changes to our plans. That triggered a new refusal letter. There's new plans. There's a new refusal letter. There is an additional violation so there's going to have to be a re-advertisement. So is this a deferral or is it a withdrawal? No, it's a deferral. We leave that suitable for. It's a small change to the neighbor requested. We made the change. We will, our architect worked to make the change. And it triggered one additional violation ourselves so we have to re-advertis. And Derek, that makes sense. Motion to defer. All those in favor? All right. May 5th of 1130. So it was March 20th. We've got to be making. If you have to re-advertisement about a month. Thank you. So what's the date, sir? May 5th of 1130. Thank you so much. What's the address? 16-18 Battery Street, Wood 3. There's two companion cases there, right? Correct. And what's the, when they may address the record and what's the reason? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Daniel Tascana. I'm the attorney on record on this particular project. We're respectfully requesting that defer on this matter, working with City Council on Matina's office and the mayor's office and neighborhood services and the co-leo. There was some opposition from neighborhood folks with the project. We're trying to make some design changes to the particular project. It was also an issue with some short-term rentals, which are in the process of being eliminated. So in order to show some good faith, we want to maybe continue this matter a few months and to May 5th would be good. And then hopefully we can get the neighborhood in support of it. These are those rental units that we didn't want sure about. Correct. Okay, it sounds like it needs more work then. Correct. Okay. Is there a motion? Motion, refer. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. Okay. May 5th of 1130. Madam Chair, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. What's the address? 6A Marks Road, Dorchester. Uh, 6A Marks, okay. And, uh, name and address for the record please and the reason for the request. Manual and Droddy. 6A Marks Road, Dorchester. Due to the weather, the neighborhood of South Shae in the middle was canceled. Did you start your process then? Yes. Is that your second meeting or your first meeting that was canceled? The first one. Motion, refer. Second. All those in favor? Uh, the gates again. May 5th of 1130. Thank you. The address please? 21 Woodworth Street, Mr. Relic. 21, 14. Okay. And, name and address for the record and the reason for the request. The name is George Moran. I'm going to turn you into business address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Actually, I am standing here in place of Arthur Chu who texted me. I could not find a parking space outside. All the garages were full and asked me to request this deferral. Unfortunately, I don't know the reasons for the deferral. I'm assuming continued community process. Okay. Thank you for, um, heroic place stepping in there. What is the pleasure of the board? Thank you. Third. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. The gate for Mr. Relic? May 5th of 1130. Thank you. What's the address? 1592 Tremont Street in Boston. Is the 1592-1996? Is that the one? Yes, sir. Yeah. Name and address for the record and the reason for the request. My name is John O'Sullivan. 535 Randolph-Admilted Mass. All of the neighborhood meetings in Mission Hill were canceled last month. I was unable to do the public process. Was that your post meeting with the community? It was. Potion before. Second. Those in favor? Aye. All right. May 5th again? Yes, it is. Thank you. Wow. The address on this one. The address on this one. I'm assuming this is Ashmont. So, yes, 1707 to Rochester Avenue. My name is Catherine Bachman, attorney with offices at 60 State Street. Here on behalf of Trinity Ashmont, two limited partnership. Sorry, let's need to address it. It's the one. We have a list of 1971 to Ash 1977 to Rochester Avenue. All right. Yes, sorry. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I have a request. Go ahead. We have successfully worked with the BRA to proceed with all of our article 80 work. We were snowed out from the BRA meeting a couple of weeks ago. So, we will be before them this week for clearance and recommendation to you. We will be on tomorrow and 137 will be within there. December 18 could be on your next report. So, the next BRA board meeting is March 22, July 2,Could you get the date Mr.ךla? if not calling B.O.A. 417-85343 will be street. All right, we'll hold it. Calling B.O.A. 424-7727-72 Dunboy Street. All right, Permanent, extend living into basement and refinish the basement as a playroom. Violations, article 9, Section 1, extension of Dr. Morn, used to family dwelling in a single family zone. Article 51, Section 9, Florey area, ratio excessive. Name and address for the record please. I'm a member of the proper rest and I'm in the E.I. Monum is home wallway. I leave it at 70 and 70 to Dunboy Street. This is Dunboy? Yes. So, have the tenant attendant B.A.I. meaning he presented a basement. The payment initially for the move back in the basement. So now the agreement was to do a half back just to take out the shower. So they looked at bathrooms and the kind of bathrooms people had in the basement? They just didn't want illegal apartment in the basement and they could rent that out to the hospital if they were to pull back. Who's designing the floor to the piano? Dr. Paya, a question. Is this a one or two family? This is a two family. A half-pidly zone first floor and also a tenant's kitchen. Because the ceiling hiding the basement is only seven foot two. Quokes for a two family? Yes. We go as well as seven. Okay. The parents are adequate. Are there any questions from the board? Ms. Pazami, is there any possibility that that basement would be turned into an additional unit? Well, they do show a direct connection from the first floor unit into the basement. However, a little creativity could change that quite easily. Okay. So we'll make a motion to the problem is that we can make zoning motions. Generally, don't make a motion include a water closet and a laboratory. But we've meant that as a supervisor that they can have use of the basement space. You would say water closet and lava is going on. No shower and no. Okay. So we haven't quite gotten there yet. So there's no additional questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak in support? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. John Locke from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support on the condition that the applicant, you know, make that a half-bath due to the neighbor's concerns about illegal units. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Alex Chase, we have a district to the council in Knox, Yamal. We'd like to echo the comments of the mayor's office and offer our support due to the accommodation that the proponent offered at the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gohms from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record and support as long as it's only a half-bath or as well. Thank you. Is there anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion to improve over the proviso that a half-bath only can come out. Sorry. We can't do that much with this. Impossible. Can you spare it? You may go. Thank you. Yes. Okay, all those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? You're all set. Please, please, friends, welcome to them. Thank you. Calling B-O-A-4-11278, 1940-1960, be considered. Purpose is to increase capacity from 195 to 240. It's a city side at the circle in 1960, Beacon Street. Violations are at 51, section 54. Additional requirements in neighborhood business sub-districts. Any application for a permit for expansion of seating or standing capacity of any restaurant with live entertainment opportunities? Yes. I have a live entertainment operating at the 10-30pm. You shall be forbidden and subject to the provisions of Article 6 that such use is forbidden, and it is a forbidden use. Name and address for the record please. Julian Bulger, 208 Bolton Street South Boston, Massachusetts. Just make this a bulger. For some reason, we don't have drawing here. I'm afraid I don't currently have a drawing. I mean, I did submit drawings to the board, and then at my last meeting in front of you, I submitted another set. I can, obviously I can get you a set of ASAP. I can really do now. So please tell us why were you deferred the last time? The last time, just, it was an ongoing negotiation with my landlord, the property owner. He had some concerns and some issues that he wanted me to address and take care of, which I've since done. I do have his support. And I did do diligence. We did the BAAIA and also a butter's meeting held on site. And I believe we have neighborhood support and support. I also have numerous signatures here that I'd like to submit. Yes, can we have that in for the record? So this is to increase the capacity from 195 to 240 patrons. Correct. Will your hours be changing at all? No, the hours are still the same. How did the plan, oh, we don't have plans. How, any questions from the board? Okay, anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Lott from the mayor's office in neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record in support of this proposal. We had an butter's meeting, there was no community opposition in the BAAIA voted in support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Alex Chase, speaking of behalf of District City Council from Mark Shelma. We'd also like to offer our support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabel Gomes, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go on record in support. Thank you. Just one quick question. Sorry, Annabel, it's good. What does the exterior of your business look like? Hold down, great. Anything like that? No, no. No, it's just our operable windows just around the facade. What is the pleasure of the board? Motion to approve the iron, but then you don't have to enter. No, no, no. Yes, it's me. All right, okay. This is straight approval. We'll hold signature. Okay, we'll enter. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Okay, motion passes, but you cannot go anywhere until we get those plans. Okay. All right, thank you. Calling B-O-A-422-087, 2000 Commonwealth Avenue. Purpose system modified, the existing wireless telecommunication facility, violation article 9, section 2, change in non-conforming use. Please provide your name and address to the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Daniel Klissman from Princil Bell Ty. I'm here on behalf of Sprint Spectrum LP regarding 2000 Commonwealth Avenue. Sprint is proposing to modify its existing wireless telecommunication site by upgrading it and adding three additional antennas. This is a rooftop installation. Two of the antennas will be mounted on the Penthouse facade and painted to match. One will be mounted on an existing screen wall and painted to match. As you can see, this is a very large building. The antennas will be at a height of 172 feet. And the actual installations are set back from the roof. The photo simulations that I provided you are not terribly useful. What they depict is that you can't see the site from the ground level. There's actually one picture in there where you can see some antennas. That's another installation from another carrier. So you plan on that your installation speed? There's set back on the existing Penthouse, two of them. And then one is on an existing screen wall, which is adjacent to the Penthouse. Who's the owner of this building? It's BC. And we've been working with them to ensure that our designs are up to their standards. Jeff, has there been any conversation with BC about a comprehensive look at all those antenna up there? I haven't been involved with it that site. We just added to their master plan two months ago. Okay. So it's still in process, essentially. How do the plans look? Is the designing? They're invisible. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Anybody had to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board. John Lop and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I'd like to speak in support of this. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Alex Chase for Councillor Marche and I will. I'd like to welcome to support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Annabelle Gomes from Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go and recommend to support. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion to approve. Is there any design? Is there a second? See it. Second. All those in favor? Hi. I'm sorry. Motion carries your old set. Thank you. Calling BOA 423-415-18 Kittred Street. Permbestos to increase parking to four parking spaces in backyard off existing driveway, violation article 67, section 9, open to base and sufficient. They may address for the record please. Jeremy Gavin, four Kestrelway, Carver Massachusetts. We have existing parking, two car tandem parking on the right side of the building. We're trying to increase the parking to the back of the building and have four spots across the back. So there will be no additional curb cuts or loss of parking on the street. How many units are in the building? It's two family building. Under the plan to open the design? Well, the question is, exactly where is the parking going? Across the back, property line, four spots, and five 15 each. So the total number of spaces will be what then? Four. So before individual space and across the back a lot? Okay. We're trying to get two per unit. The other question is that you're showing eight by 15. Correct. Our normal, minimal space is seven by 18. I could increase it. I was just trying to create as much room to actually turn around and then turn around and be created as possible. Yeah. I mean, the reason I was like question please, because it has to do with minimum of gun. Okay. So the property is in this. Yes I have. And the 8 by 15 obviously does not comply with our maneuverability. It's a little bit too tight for four spaces. I guess the balance is that the violation here is just, is the only violation really is related to open space. So I think that's the balance. Any other questions for the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this? Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Christine Galata, I'm from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. And this case is done. Community outreach. There's a petition with signatures in support. We had a butters meeting last night. It was canceled and rescheduled three times. But the butters are in support and I would also like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Walletrapper, White, Councillor Tim McCottie's office. We'd also like to go on record and support in the project. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, officer city council out large, Michelle Wool. We'd like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tara McDonough from city council at large, Steve Murphy's office. I'd like to go on record and support. What is the pleasure of the board? Just one other point of clarification. Total number of spaces again. Four. Okay. The drawing I have in front of me shows four spaces across the back. Correct. It shows two spaces in front. Those are the existing two spaces currently. Right. So therefore the total number spaces coming. It'll be four because there won't be any parking because there wouldn't be access to the back. So you're abandoning the parking. Correct. Yes. Then it'll just be access to the back. This was on his at pure front yard or is it just like we tend to know one car is pure. But this proposal would tend to get rid of it. Although the title of the bill is on private property. Okay. So is there a motion? Make a motion for approval with the number of spaces to be determined by BTB with the removal of the technical account. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Any opposed? And this is also with the understanding that that parking in the front yard will be eliminated. Correct. Regardless of what BTD's decision is. Next case. Calling B. Thank you. Thank you. Calling B.O.A. 42663428 Thompson Street. Purpose is to a recicited addition as per plans. Please approve to the次 papers ready out of this album please. Begin the dries up parsed phoenix stylists. Presses. Can you Professor Dablan hazards. We did not have an opportunity to meet with the neighborhood process, so we were able to get that together and met with the neighborhood and the butters. And what was the outcome? Positive. We were able to gather. We met and do the coordination with Stephen McWire office. So we were able to meet with the butters in a neighborhood and good number of 10 people and most of the residents on Thompson Street had showed up. The applicant actually had lived on the street back in the 80s and 90s, so this piece of land is also personal to him because he had bought it as a bank owned property. He's been vacant and sitting vacant for two years on the lot. It is an existing two family property and what he's looking to do is adding an addition to the property to actually even out the building itself because if you take a look at the character what the existing building is, it's not very good spatial use and it's awkward in terms of the layout, the rooms and it's not conducive to even renting or selling. So by doing that addition it triggers two existing violations, rear and side setback, but he's able to make a two family property with a two bedroom and three bedroom each unit that would really fit into the neighborhood there. Thank you. Any other plans? Welcome, Mr. Pazani. Drines are adequate. And Mr. Pazani has the most recent plans. I have had this as any changes. There hasn't been changes since our filing of it, but we're happy to submit the. I brought the data to October 20, 2014. Yes. Yes. Any other questions from the board? Yes, we do. Dave? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, David and Dorothy Mayer's office are enabled services. African is met with the neighbor received the support. Would like to be recorded. Thank you. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Walter, Appalachian, Councillor Tim McOuth, Councillor O'Connor. I'd like to go on record support as well. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McDonough from City Council Red Lodge, Steve Murphy's office, I'd like to go on record support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, City Council Add Lodge, Michelle Wu's office, I'd like to go on record support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval of the R.A. design review. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? You're all set. The BR8 is on. I can't hear you. Calling B-O-A 395, 947 138 Nuponsad Avenue. 138 Nuponsad Avenue. Okay, put a hold on that. I'm calling B-O-A 420377 75 Bell View Street. Sorry. Just on, Dean Haathema, State Representative from George Hesteron, on 138 Nuponsad Avenue, the proponent is not in the room. This would be the third meeting. There are over a dozen community members that are here that would like to speak on it. We're going to be fully opposed to ask for a motion to deny. Generally, we generally have to wait until the applicant is in the room. So he or she understands what the decision is and just the effort to go through the view process. Okay. Okay. We will hold on to it and we will call it. At the end of the hour? Yes. Okay. 75, this is again, 75 Bell View Street B-O-A 420377. Purpose is a chain document, see from four apartments to five apartments and renovate as per plan. Violations, Article 8, Section 6. Preexisting conditional uses, Article 9, Section 1, Section 9, Section 4, and the use of Article 65, Section 39. That's reading and buffering. Article 65, Section 41, Office of Marking. Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAR, insufficient open space and number of stories exceeded your name for the record place. Is Juan de Pina, 75 Bell View Street? Do you tell us why you would defer the last time? Because I hadn't attended the neighborhood meeting. I wasn't aware about the impact that they can have on your proposal. Yes. That's it, it was the reason why. Did you meet with the community? Yes, I did. And tell us what happened. I proposed, show them the plan that I had and there were some people there that they were acquainted with the work that I do in the neighborhood. And they understood my purpose of my plan and they were in support of it. And so you're proposing to convert four apartments to five apartments. Correct. Can you tell us what, if you're providing any parking? We have off street parking and I can't be a little more parking in the back because of Isdon Hill, the condition of the land, one, allow it. But I have, I'm sorry, a letter from my neighbor that has a parking lot. I have a permission to use the parking lot and also own another property that where I have six parking space available. So how many parking spots are on this lot? This one only one. One parking? Yes. Okay. Because to use the other parking spots and have it dedicated to this house, they need to be another process. How about, okay. Thank you. Ms. Bazzani, how did the plans look? The plans are interesting because the plans show in fact an existing condition that was the unit. So there has been a unit there or that common is the unit there. Is that correct? Yes. There was an existing one but was never considered as a unit. That's the reason why I'm taking the opportunity so I can pay tax as a unit. Have you been paying taxes as five or more? No, only four. Okay. And what are the sizes of each unit? I'm not sure, but I know it's a, most of the two bad room apartments but the basement is bigger because it's a double duplex. It's not high. Only two stories high but the basement because the utility room is only like in the center. So the space is, you have like both units actually combined so it's a lot of space. Are you currently renting five units? No. You're renting four units. Correct. I'll leave. Yes, only four units. Ms. Bazzani, what's the size of the proposal? Well, the basement is 36 by 49 plus or minus. So call it the 35 by 40. It's pretty big. Problem with it. Even with the revised drum. You still have the mechanical room for the total building within the unit. Correct. And that's not a lot. Good. I'm going to make a motion for denial of outbreaks. And the reason for that is that you will apply you to go back and rework this project. I think it has possibilities but you have to have an independent entrance and exit from the mechanical room and can't be through the unit. You're close enough to the exterior wall that you could put in another door to do that. So, what's the architect on that? The architect is the architect. Charles Bradley. He'll revise because once you go in, there is a small four-year area before you go into the unit. My motion stands. Motion for denial of outbreaks. There are seconds. All those in favor. Okay. In the pose. So, this motion of denial without prejudice stands. Take the time to work with your architects so that it meets all code requirements so that you're not tripped up in the future. Okay? Let's just do it right this time around. Okay. Thank you. All right. Calling B-O-A-4306-A-2. 71 are Grimpy and Wade. Purpose. Direct storage. It was on Nation and Frontier and it's shown on plans. Puratee Johnson's as filed and Teen Winds as refiled. Violation, article 10, section 1, limitation of area of access for uses. Name and address in the record please. Stuart Shrier, 1005, do adjust the revenue and do adjust it. My client has a rather nice, large single family home and it's on a very odd shaped lot. It's on a triangle lot. The reason it's built is a triangle lot was there was going to be another street that came off of Grimpy and Wade and went up into the park. Eventually that became a park so the street was never built. But given the shape of the lot, he really has no backyard in which to put a shed. The normal place to put your lawnmower used to know the lower. The size and shape of this lot and the topography really makes this the kind of case where the zoning regulations allow for a variance. It's proceeding from Grimpy and Wade up a huge hill. The only place he could put a shed or even if it was a garage would be a long Grimpy and Wade. What's the size of the shed? I think it's about the size of a two car garage, about 24 by 24. That's correct. And he put all his tools. He used to have a storage, one of his pods in his front yard. Given the topography, there's no access really in this lot at all. So he had a pod, the neighbors didn't like the idea of the pod. And this shed or garage, whatever you'd want to call it, he calls it a shed. Actually would be right next to the neighbors garage and about the same size. So it would fit right in along Grimpy and right where the neighbors garage is. We have about 15 letters of support from neighbors. We didn't have any traditional meeting. We tried to a couple times, got snowed out. But given the level of support, he's really only heard complaints from one neighbor who didn't really like the project. But given this particular triangle shaped lot and given the topography of this lot, there is no other place to put anything on this. Why were you deferred the last time? We tried to have the neighborhood meeting, it didn't happen. We deferred to try to have the neighborhood meeting. It got postponed, postponed. So we believe it, if you look at the project, it's not... The plan for this process... The harmonious show clearly what he intent is, the question I have is that your next door neighbor has a full drive. Correct. You're proposing, it's about 13. I can actually, I guess, the question is why not just make it the same size as what's next door. I guess he could, but that's what he feels he needs. So he's come in, people could come in and build larger, but he feels he needs just a place where it's warm over some more. When you say, yeah, you're talking about a male prefabricated? No, he's a coppender. He will build something that's probably going to look just like a house. He's really built, his home is so beautiful that I would say he's an asset. I wish he was my neighbor. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, members of the board, Joe McGecklin, City Council, Frank Baker's office, who'd like to go on record and support? Anybody here to speak in opposition to this proposal? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval was BRA design review. This is, we did something similar, maybe a year and a half ago on the backside, right where, what Marsy were, yep, yep, there was a house set back in, because it's topography, it was similar. Motion for approval, BRA design. Here are seconds. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed, you're all set. Thank you very much. Going, be away, 411-691-606-608, door to us to have. Purpose is to change use on the garden level from office space to residential units as per plans. Change occupancy to seven apartments in one store. Violations. Article Section 30, Article 13, Section 13-1. Inspecions, lot area for additional unit and insufficient open space. Article 23, Section 1, insufficient parking. Name and address for the record please. Arthitru, architect, one building throat, Quincy Vest. Now, William Godden, the pointy broad street boss and representative Michael Brottigan. So your violations are, there are open space, lock area, traditional units. And parking, what is any parking being proposed? There are existing spots that don't belong to this unit. What this is is an 8 unit building or 8 unit condominium. Six were residential two were supposedly commercial. I like pictures. There's no interior change or exterior change to it. Just legalizing the route for it is now considered commercial and not handicapped accessible spaces. And to a residential spot. And, and, and, and, and, and parking spaces are provided on site. I believe it's for four. Four. Okay. So, how do the plans look, Mr. Bazzani? The, the, the, the, the, the show, the below grade unit. Also the question is, you converting it to a residential unit from commercial. And you stated that it is not accessible. Architecture. Correct. And you have not been written up for violation for that. No. Okay. There's no building code relief requested. And the total building is spring. No, it's a couple of years. There is a room called the spring of the closet. I'm going to run. Representing the spring. We have a whole building, I can say. Well, we can deal with that with no building code relief. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Eric, print estimators, office and neighborhood services. We have four different board members in this紀ment courtyard and we have four members of members of the board, gons and network. There's from the board members who participate in tax service than the larger need for efficiency. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Paul Solves to the Council. Michael Flare, your late to go and record in support. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion for approval. The proposal. No, no, no. Okay. Is there a second? Okay. It's been approved. The motion made is a second. All those in favor? Any opposed? The motion carries your all set. Thank you. Going B-O-A-419-599-552-E-S4-3. Purpose to extend curb cut and stall number. Purpose to extend curb cut and stall new driveway for three off-street residential parking spaces. Violations are Article 10, Section 1. Limitation area of accessory uses. Article 57, Section 26. Osteering parking is sufficient. Article 57, Section 9, useable open space. Insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Name so highly of 552-E-S4-3. Don Ways Dayne to Arby, 745 at Lance Gavine. Good morning. This is a relatively simple case. This, the 552-E-S4th Street Cuddle Association has no off-street parking. They would like to add three spaces on the lot. Because that would take three cars off, which is very crowded street, east-force street, parking, they received widespread. They were support. A petition here with 54 signatures. The highlighted signatures are those who are on their specific block of east-force street. I'll pass that in. Why were you deferred the last time? We were not able to speak with the immediate about every before the last year. And we've since done so, we have a 55th indication support, a sign letter from the immediate abouter. It's also passed in. And how many units in this building? It's a double building. It's 12 and total. Six on the half of the parking will be located and six on the other half. And where are these additional spaces? They're going right in the side of the lot. They'll essentially fill the side of the lot, which is why the zoning relief is required. What is it being used for now? Oh, it's a space. Trash can't. It's a... Part of the plan is looking at the zoning. The drawing show three spaces, eight foot five, eight foot six by 20 foot on the left side of the building. I'll be handing them. They're all handed. They're all handed. Any other questions from the board? Eric, who on his speaking sport? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, our apprentice mayor's office and the board's services. So, you know, we are in support of taking cars off the street in South Boston. That being said, too, the curb that will be removed here would just extend another curb cut. So it's only three to five feet of curb being removed. That being said, the opening for the driveway on this specific lot is nine foot four inches. The neighborhood's for it, but, you know, it's not the required ten feet. The building next to it has a driveway alongside of it. So we're not concerned of any access issues because there is paved space on that side. We just want to bring that to the board's attention because we know we've had a couple things come in the past. It's not, you know, ten feet. With that said, you know, we would support this, but we hope that the proponent would come to an agreement with an easement agreement with the next door neighbor for that extra eight inches to make it a legal ten feet. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison from Council President Leonard Hans Office. We'd like to go on record in support of taking cars off the street. The curb cut expansion is very modest. So we'll support the project at this time, but as the mayor's office said, we would like to see an easement agreement for the additional eight inches. Thank you. Madam Chair, I wish to express my support of the proposal for the curb extension. I reside and have property approximately two blocks away from the question. Thank you. Did you put your name and address on the record? Ma'am. Did you put your name and address on the record? Yes. It is on the list that was... Oh, I'm sorry. I have property at 570 East Broadway, which is approximately two blocks away. Thank you. Anybody else in support? Anybody in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion. Is there a second? I don't honestly know. I'm not sure. We would certainly try to get that and be useful to us as well, but I can't guarantee we would get it. Okay, so there's a motion. Is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? You're all set. Thanks very much. Calling B-O-A-409527, a companion case B-O-A-409528, to two west-third street place. The applicant here for this case? Okay, let's move along. Okay, calling B-O-A424205, a 112-revere street. Okay, hold that too. Okay. Calling B-O-A382897104 Canal Street. Is the applicant here for 1044 Canal Street? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Sorry, I'm ready. Okay. I'll wait and see if you were here. The purpose, Canal Street Hotel, constructing a new 15-story hotel. Violations are 32 section 4, G-Cod applicability, Article 46, Section 6, floor area height ratio, excessive and building height excessive. Name and address of the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman and members of the Board. Ruth Silman, Nixon Peabody, 100-Summer Street, here on behalf of Sumnaf Hospitality. We are here for two variances for height and FAR and a G-Cod conditional use permit. We were deferred at the request of the mayor's office in December and there's also been a change of council as you may recall. Now judge Howard Spicer was representing the applicant. And we have resolved all of the issues with all of butters and we have support from the mayor's office. We have elected officials, neighborhood groups, there are people here to speak in support. I do have B.K. Bully from adding if there are any questions for the architect. Did anything on the proposal change? Nothing. There's no change in building height or anything. How do the plans look, Mr. Pizani? Any questions from the Board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Chris Simanelli-Gromer, I trust I just wanted to let the Board know that we do have the layer of no harm from the applicant and they are fully compliant. Thank you. Nicole Leo May is office enable with services we'd like to go and record and support. Madam Chair, members of the Board, John Allison from Council President Lynnahan's office. We'd like to go on record and support as well. We're supportive of hotels, especially in this area of downtown. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Tom McDonough from City Councilor at Lyad Steve Murphy's office. I'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Jay Wallace from the up the downtown North Association. We'd like to go on record and support this project was presented to our Board in September of 2014 and received their enthusiasm for it. Thank you. Madam Council members of the Board, my name is Paul Sporn. I'm the council of TGS1 Realty. We are the council of the primary butter on the property. We're here in support of the project subject to receipt of adequate assurances from the applicant which are forthcoming. And we have every expectation will be realized with the competent change of council. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? What is the pleasure of the Board? Motion for approval continues to be our executive. All those in favor? Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-425-966-101-Cottet Street. Purpose to extend living space to a unit to a basement level, the majority of the cost of a renovation was reflected on a short form permit. Violates of Article 53 Section 9 for area ratios excessive. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chairwoman. Through to the members, Richard Lins, 1216, Edison Street. On behalf of the petitioner, we were before the Board in December of 14. We were requested to take a deferral by the mayor's office to conclude the community process. Since then, we've appeared before the Jeffrey Spoy Neighborhood Association received an overwhelming vote of support 43-2 for this proposal. It's an existing two-family dwelling undergoing renovations for conversion of condominium. Simply looking to extend the living space, a pertinent to the first unit, to the basement, triggering the only violation of excessive floor ratio. The current FAR is 1.6. The proposed B2.1 would essentially fill out majority of the basement space for additional living space. Each unit will remain or will be a two-bedroom unit and has indicated these are being prepared for condominium and home ownership. And floor ceiling heights are adequate for the sub-assign. Seven feet. The floor ceiling heights are adequate and I just want to clarify that the units are accessed to the basement and the circuit of the basement within the unit. Oh, yes. To the basement, a circular stair, the common utilities have their own independent access. Okay. And the plans are adequate then? Drives are it. Any other questions from the Board? What is the pleasure of the Board? No. Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Anybody in opposition? What is the pleasure? Oh, go ahead, Judy. Sorry. We have a seat. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Jennifer Maria Mears, Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on a rough group of support. Anybody else in support? Anybody in opposition? What is the pleasure of the Board? Motion approval. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? No, I'm fine. Any opposed? Following BZC-33471-5 Murray Courts. Okay. Opposites to remove existing pitch roof and frame flat roof. Renovate Alex base to build master bedroom suite. Renovation to include master bedroom, bathroom and master bedroom. We walk out deck and roof deck with spiral staircase access. Violation. Article 53, Section 09. Number of stories exceeded floor area ratio excessive side yard insufficiency. Article 53, Section 12. I had excessive area yard insufficiency roof structure restrictions. Name an address for the racket, please. Gerald Abby, 20 Brennan Street Unit 3. Boston, Mass, Year 2128. Please fill us with your proposing. I'm proposing the change of design of my current roof to a flat roof. The current design needs reinforcement. It also is pitched and then flat and zel, which is created leaks and damaged my home. And also the space is fairly inadequate for my family. So we want to wall change in this to make master suite in the top floor to better utilize the space of the home. Is this a one family or two? It is a single family. How do the plans look with the design? The drawings are adequate. In essence, you changed from a three-story yellow to a four-story one. Yes. Any other questions from the board? Anybody here who speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Jennifer Maria Maria's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record of support. Thank you. Anybody else in support? Judy? Madam Chair, commissioners, Tom McDonough. City Councilor Lodge, Steve Murphy's Office, late to one record in support. Thank you. Anybody here in opposition? What is the pleasure of the board? Motion approval with the audience. Is that there? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? You're all set. Thank you very much. Okay. There were four cases that we called where the applicant was not here. We'll drive again. B-O-A-417-853-43-Willow-E-S-R-E. It is now 1240. I need a motion from this board since the applicant is not here. Motion to the 9. Second. All those in favor? All right. And this is a denial without the directoris. B-O-A-395-947-138 in the Pons of Avenue. The applicant here? Yes. Okay. Yeah. The purpose to correct the new seven unit dwelling on existing 12,869 square foot lot. There will be garage parking at a greater beneath the units as well as parking at a greater and rear yard. Violations are Article 65, Section 8. New Small DeFamily dwelling for Bidden. Article 65, Section 9. Floor area ratio. Obsessive building. How excessive front yard insufficient. Very yard insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Douglas George, 32 May you speak to a system S. John Moran, attorney for Mr. George. Please tell us what you're proposing and secondly why you would have heard the last time. Mr. Clarify, Mr. George's relationship with the prior owner. I would like to place on the record that he is not a straw far related to our member of the family. He purchased the property. It is an infamous piece of property where body parts and bodies were found on the premises. It is something that many members in the community would like to have completely removed. With that, Mr. George is proposing six units before the board plans for seven units. There has been extensive, extensive community dialogue on this project, a number of deferrals. The six units that Mr. George is now proposing do not alter in any way the footprint of the building or the requested zoning relief. Is there still any parking units? How many parking spaces are there? It will be parking remains the same. 14 parking spaces. The floor area ratio, the code requires 0.5. What is being proposed is 0.9. The building height, reference being excessive. The code requires 35 feet. What is being proposed is 36 and 38 and a half feet. The front yard code requires 15. A question whether there is modality. What is being proposed is five. The rear yard code requires 30 feet. What is being proposed is 16.5. We have a pass out if we could to the board if the board is not received it. This project has gone through extensive review and various proposals. Initially, it was seven units. There was positive reception before the Pope's Hill Association. A week later, at the site meeting, there was procetorist opposition by some members. The Mr. George met with the condominium on his 25 condominium on his across the street in the apartment building that has been converted. Plus, that's redecorated, which is a condominium association. They wanted changes to the plan in order to enhance the street scape of Dodgers to Bay and to improve it. The George altered the plan, which is reflected in what is before the board. He then went before the civic association and they said they would prefer to have three two family dwellings. He proposed plans for three two family dwellings. The immediate abundance across the street were not happy but would support it just to remove the history, the ISOR and what they feel. The second thing that I would like to say is a detriment to their values and to the community. At that civic association meeting, there was procetorist opposition by a minority at that group. A majority. I stand corrected. Some members who were in attendance to support the project did not stand up. I could use the paraphrase by some they thought the meeting had gone crazy. They have subsequently signed petitions of support and I would like to submit them. There are 73 individual petitions of support plus unanimous support by the condominium association, the 25 member condominium association. It has been suggested that the support is not from the immediate community. I would ask the board to look at the addresses they have, the majority from over 50 from the Ponset Avenue. They are immediate about us. We have submitted in red on the first page of the sub-battle where the community support is. There is one immediate about who is opposed does not want anything to occur on the property. There were subsequent meetings and it was proposed prior to the last hearing that Mr. George duplicated the six family unit that he had constructed down the road on the Ponset Avenue. That did not receive support from the abutters who would have the review diminished and there was no support from those who were opposing it. At the last meeting he had proposed directly to the abutters that were opposing five single family buildings and the answer was no. He had suggested two family dwellings, which he could have, which the code permits is a matter of right and the answer was no. What can be built as a matter of right and is providing? Two family dwellings can be built. Mr. George has made it clear that he is an experienced developer. He builds quality housing and as a developer he is judged by not the best project but the worst project. As a right he could build on these parcels for families. He is now proposing six family. It looks like the access to the parking is from the rear. There are two cup cuts on the Ponset and tiles rose street. The cup cut on the Ponset would be removed increasing parking on the Ponset. It would be removed. We do not need the cup cut on the Ponset. It would be a single point access from tiles rose street. We have gone through that. What was 65.8? I am sorry? Good was by 65-8. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I have been using it for years. I am very, very well in unit. The footprint of the building remains the same. The actual units are enlarged. I will suggest the purposes of zoning review. The plan is going to be adequate. And we would certainly supplement, if the board chooses plans showing reduction. And what are the unit sizes? The unit's added in between 12 to 14 hours with you. 12 to 14 hours with you. And the breakdown, two screens. The six units and a couple of three families family sized dwellings, the others and two bedrooms. So three and two bedrooms, okay? Any other questions from the board? All of the access to the garage. You still have garage parking. Garage parking in exterior service parking. Okay, so you have six garage's. Two screens. And you have four, six, seven additional spaces. No, the garage is a two parking spots. So it's total 14. Okay. Well, you can't get two cars in 12 foot wide garage. That's what the garage show that's. That's why I'm hearing words, but how should you get us a comment? What do you do? What do you do? So in summary, you're leaving the building as is. Nothing interesting, though. The footprint of the proposed thing is this. Which is this. Yes, the footprint remains. The footprint being proposed remains the same. In the zoning violations remaining. The same. The alterations at the request of community and media about its sense at one point in the process is to charge proposed six to three to family dwellings. And we can always wait on plans because the footprints, the violations are exactly the same. So there are any more questions for the board. Anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Okay. I see overwhelming opposition then. If everybody's sitting down, I would request that you, whoever comes in after the first few speakers, which are generally elected officials, are representatives of elected officials that you try not to repeat what the previous person has said. And if you feel everything has been covered, just put your name and address on the record. Okay. Thank you. Representative. I just seen this gentleman for the first time and I find it comical that he talks about an extensive public process or can even speak to anything that went on at the meetings. The I represent, obviously, the community of Dorchester and as well as North Quincy. The proponent of this project has owned the property since last April and has had a total of one local about his meeting. There's universal opposition to this project. It is dense to use the hyperbole of the history of the property, I think, is outrageous. It's hard to not speak with emotion having heard the presentation that just became, came before the board. Despite the fact that this is the third meeting with a dozen community members, the proponent has expressed zero willingness to work with the community. There was overwhelming opposition at the local civic meeting, 35 to 5, at the mayor's office, neighborhood services about his meeting, who was overwhelming opposition. What I have seen proposed does not fit into the character of the avenue which has several beautiful Victorian homes. These property owners just invested hundreds of thousands of dollars to preserve a property and the proposal that I've seen from the proponent has been right on top of the various on the avenue as well as the budding properties. The traffic in the morning for a local school is overwhelming at present and based on the proponents unwillingness to work with the community in any capacity, I would request that you deny this with prejudice. Thank you for your time. Mayor's office. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tom McKay, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, as the representative mentioned, there have been at least a few meetings on this and there has not been community support for it. I think you're going to hear from a good amount of the butters here as well that are in opposition. So our office would like to go on record an absolute opposition to this proposal. I know the initial proposal was seven units. Is it also based on the six units on the six unit proposal? Yes. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckron, City Council, Frank Baker's office. At this time we are also unable to support the project for many of the reasons you've heard so far, it just has to be that it's through the community a little more thoroughly. Madam Chair, Commissioner's time, McDonough, City Councilor Steve Murphy's office. We'd like to go on record an up position. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, women, members of the board, Sean Pierce, on behalf of State Senator Linda Dorsey-Naforri, who represents this area. Also just for the board, I have a copy of a letter from the Poxill Neighborhood Association, which is the local civic association in opposition, as well as petition of at least 63. Direct and immediate of butters, who are opposed to this as well. We can take that in the record later. Great. So the senator would like to go on record an up position of both six and seven unit proposals. As someone who was involved in the community process from the start, the retelling of events sounds more like a work of fiction than a statement of truth. And that's a really good example of the way this process has transpired over the last several months. So again, the senator would like to go on record in opposition of the project and petition from the letters as well. Thank you. Anybody else is going to speak? Please speak to the proposal itself. Put your name and address on the record and state precisely what your opposition is to the six of the seven units. Again, as I mentioned before, if there are other people in the queue and everybody has covered the subject, please just put your name and address on the record. My name is Deborah Scully. I am in a butter. I live at 73 Houghton Street with my husband. We have been in opposition to this. We have gone to every meeting. The sixth or seventh proposal does not fit the neighborhood. We have requested four, which is more in keeping with the neighborhood. My main concern is the traffic that comes from the Murphy School where I do work. The traffic in the morning is very congested. And having the cut right on tile of borough street would severely impact a lot of my students who are candycapped and do take that bus route out of the school in the afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else going to speak? Yes, please. My name is John Gannon. I am a direct butter. I am a next store. What is your address? 152 Nuponset Avenue. I am a direct butter. I am opposed to the number of units. The parking spaces. Designed doesn't fit within the neighborhood. I have no problem with the building to code. I have a problem with the density. The airship and the parking directly across the street from 138, which houses 25. I believe studios and one bedrooms. I am sure those are the folks that make sign his petition. I would like to go on record also stating that his brother owns a lot of those condominiums in that building. Thank you. I believe his petition is inflated. Thank you. Anybody else who speak in opposition? Yes, we have heard about traffic. Yes, thank you. Yes. So will you speak briefly on the merits and on the process? Yes, the existing use as a funeral home generated a great deal more traffic than what this development would propose. Additionally, we are removing a curb cut on the Ponset Avenue which will facilitate the traffic flow. I would suggest that six units is not going to generate anywhere near the prior units. On a personal note, I have made my presentation based upon my clients' representations as to his outreach and the variation and the plans before the board certainly demonstrate that he has had numerous exchanges with people. The last one before this matter was deferred with Representative Hunt who had suggested the six unit building and who looked at what Mr. Jarchett constructed down the street. That was not received by receptive by either the butters in opposition or the butters in support. It was applied to Ali. Thank you. Any other questions from the board given the testimony we've just had? Okay. Is there a motion? All those in favor? Is anybody opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. For the record, the real veer street was called 112. I had withdrawn the last. There will be a street? No. Well, just stay for one minute because we will get to it momentarily. What's your thoughts? John, please have a seat. They'll take Rebea right now. I have a calling B.O.A. 424205 112 with veer street. Okay. So for the record, you name and address. Join the Randall fine advisory services representing Verizon and the owner. I had sent in a withdrawal letter on this project that we are not going forward. Do I hear a motion? Is there a second? No. We're not going to withdraw in the case. So it's a zero second. All those in favor? Any opposed? So you're all secretary of withdrawal? Okay. The final thing that we called earlier and didn't get a response. Once again, calling B.O.A. 409527. It could be in case B.O.A. 409528 and two West 3rd Street Place. It is now one five minutes to one. Is there a motion from this board for denial with our prejudice? I'm motion. I'm motion. I'm motion. Okay. This is a motion for denial. Hold on. This motion for denial with our prejudice. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. So West 3rd Street has been denied because there's no show. I understand that a will of B has the applicant for Willoughby Street, the first one on the 1130 projects. This is unacceptable. You were scheduled for 1130. You were scheduled for 1130. All the community representatives are gone. Are you withdrawing your case? What are you proposing to do? David, David, have you had this communication issue? And do you want to have his case heard? Okay. It's a little mandatory. I believe the president of my greener standing was two years ago when he was trying to prepare. So that was this is okay. So whoever made the motion for Willoughby Street, can I have a motion for withdrawing that motion? The move. Second. All those in favor? All right. Okay. So now calling B.O.A. 417-853-43 Willoughby Street. Purpose close, second floor porch, put two windows in front and one on each side and put side in and porch to correct violation. Violations are with 51 section 9. We're yard insufficient and side yard insufficient. Your name and address for the record please. Thank you. Are you going to help us? My name is Taylor Lee. I live with 43, billed and peace free. Thank you. Can you please tell us briefly on behalf of the client what is being proposed? So two years ago I think during hurricane Sandy some storm damage occurred to your house and what David wants to do is replace. It's existing. Replacing what was there before the porch, the, I'm drawing the line. Yeah, but it's a pure replacement. I'm going to be here is. Okay. How do the plans look Mr. Bazzani? We were going to mentor. I'm sorry. The plans are we're going to mentor. I can't figure out what exactly is going to happen. Is this and exists? The F.O.A.B.R.S.? The B.O.A.B.R.S. and the property pictures. The picture. No. No. So this is a direct replacement of storm damage. Is that correct? No. It is storm damage and making it by the typhoon. How long has it been in that state? How long has the building been stormed damage? How long has it been stormed damage? That's it. I've almost been 2 years. I know. How has it? The peak times go. Okay, so that's because it's beyond the 2-year limit. Is that why it's had to go through the field process? The work is not done. It's not done. It's not done. I just want to know. I just want to know. I have a stop worker on it. Can anybody help? He pulled a short form which was the wrong application to do the repairs because it was more repairs than a short form. When he went back and did the right paperwork, it triggered all the variances because the house is non-conforming. That's our understanding. But it's existing and he's just repairing the existing structure that has damage to it. How many units in the building? Two units. Two units and this is for the second unit. Have you seen the building? Yes. It needs repair. The state suggested he was not out of line with what needs to be done. No, he's not adding anything additional. I think he's just repairing the damage and the porch damage and everything. Okay. So, Ms. Bazzotti, if the plans are going to be removed, where all the trees can be moved ahead? Yes. Move ahead. Okay. We'll design with you. Okay. It might need it because who knows. So, the motion is for approval. Sorry. Is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Thank you, guys. Everybody for helping us understand that proposal. Thank you. Okay. I'm going to read. Okay. We'll read the next few recommendations that the subcommittee met on Thursday. On Thursday and the members of that subcommittee were myself, Mr. Bazzotti and Mr. Olic. We had heard the following cases. BOA number 43, 7, 34, 24, 10, 94, 10, 96, Saratoga Street. This was a request for a side yard dormer, which we recommended approval for BRA design review. BOA number 43, 7, 5, 0, 0, 1 Merrimack Street. This was to extend parking. The term of the parking, and this was 16 spaces. We approved it. Subject to the following providers. For two years, 16 spaces and with BRA design review. BOA number 43, 1591. 16 to 18 North Street. This was a request for takeout. We approved it. Subject to BRA design review. And the usual takeout provisions. BOA number 43, 52, 22, 115 Bolton Street. This was a request at a fourth floor. Which we...