 I'm sorry. Boston zoning vote of appeal hearing for August 10th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency that was signed by Governor Baker on June 16, 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that are adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1, 2021. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the WebEx event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meeting, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints required. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click the icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Again, if you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Those called upon to comment will be asked, state in name, and address first, and then can provide comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant case is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Once you have put your comments into the record, please lower your hand so we can clear the deck for others who are interested in commenting on for the next case. Before we start, let me take a call off board members. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, ma'am Chair. Good morning, Mr. Ehrlich. Here. Good morning, Mr. Regeria. Good morning, Chair. Miss Dong. Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning, Ms. Barraza. Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning, Ms. Fanato. Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning. I think this is the record. This is the first time we've had a primarily female board. This is exciting. Absolutely. Absolutely. So is Jeff Hampton here from the BPDA? Good morning, Ma'am Chair. Good morning, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Ma'am Chair. The first order of business is the approval of the minutes of January 26th of 2021 and February 2nd of 2021. We need a motion. No, prove the minutes. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. And just a reminder, when you make a motion, please put your name on the record. And if you second, please put your name on the record. If you are opposed, also put your name on the record. Thank you. I'm going to call the first order for the extension. It's 930 calling the BOA 746305. 428 tiles from the street. Madam Chair, this did expire July 13th of 2021. This could be the second extension if we granted. Name and address? Will the record please? Robert should be here. Robert Burke? As is hand raised. As is hand raised. As is hand raised. Robert, can you hear us? Yes. Thank you. Okay, there you go. May I have this with the record please? I'm Robert Burke, the board of the street. I'm Robert Burke, the board of the street. Mr. Burke, can you speak up? Can you speak up and tell us why you're requesting an extension? Yes. Madam Chair, members, is the board of the lead plans of the leadership of the committee and the project is now sitting on the death of the committee. So we're... Okay, hold on. May I have a motion please? Motion, go ahead. Joe, motion for the next one year. Back at the board. All those in favor? Bye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Going to next case, calling BOA 82750072 Burbank Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on August 30th of 2021. This would be their first extension if we granted. Thank you, Madam Chair. So the record please. So, Sunith Paul John, Fendey CTC 70 Burbank Street, BOA 820215. So tell us why you're requesting this extension? Yes, Madam Chair. We... The Fendey CTC can be a community development corporation of here to property last month. And we plan to develop that. And so we don't get enough time to go and get the extra funds for the end of the department. So... Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion for one year extension, Joe. Second, Mark. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Following an excuse, calling BOA 826724 1199-1203 Blueville Avenue. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on August 31st of 2021. If we granted, it would be their second extension. May we now just for the record please? My name is Murray Glazer, 28 Liberty Paul Road, hang a Massachusetts. So, Joe, is why you're requesting the second extension? Well, after a grueling year of community meetings that resulted in the extension last... At this time last year, we began the process developing the project. But then COVID hit. And we needed to go into the pre-construction phase because of the community meetings resulted in the complete change in the number of units. So, has this board seen the change in the number of units? I believe so. Yes. I'm not quite sure. Okay. But in a complete revision of the layouts of the building, it's so we started. But the pandemic at the time in the summer last year. I just want to make sure that we're going to hold this for a minute to give you a chance to check. Because we just need to make sure that any changes, substantive changes, have been seen by this board. All right, Sarah. I'll look at this one. Okay. Let's go to the next case. Sure. I'll follow you next case. 9BOA 751 286 Princeton Street. And this expired on February 16th of 2020. This would be their first extension that we do granted. Payment address for the record please. So what's all right? Latina. If you bring some street response to the mass. So Mr. Martina, Mr Latina, sorry. This this application of expired already. It expired before the pandemic hit. So I'm not sure you're covered by any any extension. Rolls that have been allowed because of the pandemic. What took you so long to get back to us? Besides this constriction, I want to a family court proceeding to allow the building to be properly transferred to my name. And because of these constrictions, the Zoom meetings and everything, you just you just want to schedule to resolve. So this this this has not entered construction because of it being in court. Is that what it is? Basically, yes. Okay. So may I have a motion? Please know that we do not look kindly on expired projects, except if they've been in litigation. I have a motion. Please. Motion for a one year extension. Second. All those in favor? Hi. I'm your post and that is from today. Yes. Following the next case, calling B O A six six seven one one one one one 51 deliverable screen. This is going to expire on August 25th, 2021. If we do grant it, this would be their third extension. Amen. Address for the record. As Liverpool Street on. I saw that. Yeah. Okay. Anthony, you've been on mute. Can you hear us? Yes. I can hear you now. Thank you for on muteing me. My name is Anthony LeChacy with the law firm of Croquitas and Bluestein in Boston, and I'm going to have a new. Representing city point Liverpool LLC on this project. This has been quite the saga with new hurdles seemingly at every turn. The primary reason for the recent delay was due to an issue involving the location of electrical transformer that is required for this building. It was originally planned to be located in the basement, a room in the basement. The background review process, the BPDA, objected to that location. And it took some time to coordinate the agency with the ever source to find a solution, which ended up being. It's putting the transfarbor in an in an underground vault outside the building, which required a slight change in the footprint of the building, because the building occupied the entire lot that changed the. So councilor, just to let you know, we are looking to have these buildings wrapped up and not just sit there with their approvals in hand. When will you approve on this? May of 2017. Okay, so we are expecting that this is the last time we'll hear from you on this project and things will proceed. May I have a motion, please? Motion for your extension from data term. Second, Joe. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. The next case calling the OA 95573395 press card three. This is due to expire on August 2, 2021. From the press extension, if we do granted. Good morning, Celestra Barrow. You would representing LAR properties. Our address is 280 to Bennington Street East Blossom. Okay, hold on a moment. May I have a motion, please? Thank you for one year extension. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling the OA 901-824-23 Blake Street. Madam Chair, this is the expire on May 10, 2021. This would be their first extension if we do granted. May I have a request for the record, please? And the last issue, gentlemen, 23 Blake Street. I have a motion on this because these last two seem to be COVID-related. So may I have a motion on this? Motion for one year extension, Mark. Is there a second? Second. Sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. And just to know Mr. Krishna Kumar is that we do not like to have extensions sitting too long out there. So please make sure you proceed with your project. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling the OA 78862-587-ALLBany Street. Madam Chair, this is due to expire on August 23, 2021. This could be the second extension that we granted today. A minute. Please. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Matt Eccle from Gregio in Sano. We are asking for an issue or request to read this motionせ. If you can can. A month as we said this cannot be done to go on liquid. We must accept this motion through this month's magnitude, if there is a minimum imbalance or non-confidence of cooperation. The issue and question are being assessed in alternate guidelines while the motion carries. Madam Chair, Tom has on back, Tom Baromas, on back and regards the Princeton Street, so the floor says. I'm sorry for the document. Yeah, it's on. Madam Chair, I looked into the document or the book to plan a view history. It doesn't appear to be a plan for view by ISD since play 18. But if the floor didn't want to grant the extension, they would be so they would need to go back potentially before the board again and plan to significantly change prior to the permit issuing. It's really extension one automatically, you know, allow the permit to issue, but it's allowed to continue the process under the same permit number. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion for one year extension, Mark. Is there a second? Second, Chair. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? And to the applicant for Blueville, if there have been significant changes, we expect to see you back at the board. Thank you. Calling board final, obter, calling B O A 106, 692 0, 532 to 534 East Third Street. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members. Board, my name is George Moran, and I'm an attorney with the Business Address, 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair, members, the purpose of this hearing is to perfect the record with respect to the plan set. This matter was approved by the board on October 6, 2020. It was later noted by the ISD plans, examined if the plans displayed on that day were not the updated set that had been submitted prior to the hearing. The plan's examiner and I subsequently reviewed the video of the October 6 hearing and concurred that my description of the project in all relevant zoning matters was accurate and in conformance with the operative plan set, which is available for display today. These revised plans took two changes from the initial application set. On the site plan, the number of parking spaces was reduced from 6 to 5, which I stipulated during the original hearing. So the partial fourth story of the building now has front and rear setbacks from the building edge of 12 feet and 14 feet, whereas the previous version of the plan showed 14 feet, 8 inches and 16 feet or inches. The plan set. Ms. Burrasa, do you have a copy of these plans? Your Honor, Ms. Burrasa. My apologies, Madam Chair. I don't have plans for 532 and 534 East Earth Street. Okay, let's bring this back to the board next time so that the architect has a chance to ensure that everything lines up and can stamp the plans. Is there a second? Second, Jean. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm sorry, the judge wants to get out of clarification on what the motion about was. We need revised plans. Our architect today does not have the plans, so we just need to make sure that we are adequately armed when we make a decision. Okay, so. We are August 24th, Madam Chair. Okay, 824 at 930. Thank you. Following your next case, following BOA 104-4698-512-514-Poffler Street. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. It's the board, Attorney John Paul Jeaning, the Business Address, 1040, and the Green Street. I'm here today seeking more of a clarification. This proposal was approved back on July 21st, 2020. At the time of approval, the motion was approved with BPA design and it was the motion in that. It was what passed. There was some conversation afterwards which stated to eliminating the garage to lower the height. One of the problems with this project was the width of this property is 40 feet which is consistent with all the neighbor and parts of the land. So the maintenance of the BPA design review was impossible without creating parking in front of the house because it wasn't in our side yard to have a drive and be going to the back. So we did try to do that and we were based upon the comments that we received after the vote, able to lower the building to 33 feet to be compliant with the high district district. So you're clear because you've met the high restriction however, you are still, you need a clarification or approval for us for the parking. That is correct, Madam Chair. Ms. Varaza, do you have the updated plans? Madam Chair, I do not have the updated plans. Okay. So we will then have a motion for deferral and so may I have a motion for deferral? So moved. Is there a second? Second, sorry. All goes in favor. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. Do you have a date of August 24th at 930? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bojini. Thank you. Following the next case for G-Card. Following VIA121-2. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. Mr. Bojini, 1-2-1-0-6-4-4-39. Appleton Street. This is to execute the new Basin below 7 feet above the Boston City Basin finish garden level. By at least that's a 32 section 4. This is G-Card. Appal<|ro|> Ability. Name and address. Further. John Moran. One very big road of Orleans mass, the appropriate documents, the approved plan, the compliance letter from Water and Sword has been filed along with the engineers' whole town bus letter. So may I have a question, please? Commodity Madam Chair, members of the Board, Chris, the Somonali Boston Groundwork Trust, and we have both the AWSC approval and no harm letters. So, Christian, I have a question for you. Among the comments that was submitted was the concern from in about on the possible demise of a shade tree. And so are we going to lose something while we have this G-Card requirement met? Not to my knowledge, no. The no harm letters specifically states that anything below the threshold of elevation 8, which is the new zoning, will be fully waterproofed and is instantly going to recharge systems. So I can't see how that's going to jeopardize a tree. You know, we have these all the time. Okay. We have a motion please. Madam Chair, we also have the letter. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Motion approved. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm going to call the 930 hearings for deferrals who are throrals only. This is the 930 deferrals or withdrawals address please. I'm sorry. I can't get the on you. But on the 39th, apple tree one, we just want to underscore the butters. So I'll connect with you. I'll connect with you. I'll connect with you after this. I'll send you a message. I'll connect with you after this. I'll send you a message. Yes. This is Dave. Can I have everybody muted and let's start with the hearings. Mr. Fortune, please. From the first case calling the OA 1215340 96d2 road. This is the renovate the interior and exterior of an existing two family 12. And let me space into the attic area. The village is Article 9 section one reconstruction extension of an occupying building. Article 53 section 56. I'll be parking. Article 27 CDH 5. This is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53 section 9 excessive FAR. Article 53 section 9. The number of allowed service has been exceeded. Article 53 section 9. It's sufficient side down setback. Article 53 section 9. Insufficient ray on setback. Name and address for the right. Please. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Ford, attorney Derek Small. This is just like 51 dogs and low-ranking bass. With me today on the call is Devon Rallien-Marini from the Socialist Architectural Front. And she can answer any questions about the plans. And Chair, we are here today seeking a renovated interior exterior of an existing two family dwelling and an extended space into the attic area. Zoning sub districts is a 1 F 5000. A lot size is 1,500. A violations are as follows. FAR, quiet FAR is 0.5. Existing FAR is 0.6 and we are proposing 0.8. Building height. We are required building height is 35 feet from half stories. We have three stories and we are at 33 feet, seven inches to where we go out to the height and building are below the required height. Side yoke setback requires 12 feet. On the left hand side we have 1.3, which is on the right side we have 10.5 of the pre-existing non-conforming conditions. We are at 42 feet. We have 20 feet and half. That is pre-existing non-conforming as the footprint of the building is not changing. With regards to the units themselves, one will consist of two bedrooms to do that. In its approximately 1260 square feet. And unit two consists of three bedrooms to pass the approximately 2200 square feet. We have two parking spaces in the rear. That is about it. We will answer any questions that the board may have at this time. It seems like there might be some confusion in the community. This is all internal rehab. There is not any proposed addition to the rear of the building or anything. I think we are squaring off the back of the building. If you are on it, you can just talk to that point. We are squaring off the building and squaring off the attic a bit. But we are not changing the footprint of the building at all. So tell us what squaring off the rear means. If you were to go back to the existing plans, it is a bit jagged in the back. See that. Hold on. Up to the plans, please. Right here. There are two beds on where it says unit two on the left hand side drawing. We are squaring off the back to make for one place. How many square feet is that? I am not exactly sure how much the addition is. I am looking at the left hand drawing. The dash line all the way in the rear is what the extension looks like. No, no, no. That is the demolition line. We are basically that rear of the back and back. The line back there is being extended to each side of the building. And just bring off those two corners. How are the plans, Ms. Baraza? Madam, chairs, the plans are adequate. It seems like you by squaring off, you are adding an additional kind of story. The existing first floor footprint is that correct? The first floor footprint is staying the same. The second floor and the attic floor are extended. Are you ever building an additional story at the rear? Because your elevations, your A202 and A203 suggests that you are adding another story. It is the same height. We are keeping the existing height. We are just building out that level. So you are standing back. Only on the two floors. The footprint isn't changing. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? I have two members of the board. We will go on the right to support for this proposal. Two members will go on the right to support for this project. And this project will also support from the audience. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I am the office of Boston City Council and the council would like to go on record in support of this project. Madam Chair, secretary here we have one letter of opposition. The opposition is outside exterior work. Not the interior. I have no raised hands. I am sorry. You have been unmuted. You have to speak in support of opposition for this proposal. Yes. This is Gail Miller. I am calling in for the butters. There is one letter of opposition that involves five or six of the butters. There is some kind of real confusion here. When we had all the verbal conversations with the attorney and no time was the external renovation discussed. The butters are all okay with the external renovation. But what is happening as chairman has illuminated the butters rather than the developer is going to square a big box in the back. Yes, the butters are going to say the same but you are going to have a big box like a stack. Totally out of range of the iPod consideration. And it is going to look like you are looking at the back side of a wall by building. Totally exposed by the butters as was communicated. And the all communication with attorney's law were only about out interior. And then when they went to present of your own I say for the situation none of that would make no possible. Hold on, man. Can I just ask you a question? So are you opposed to the rear for the for the way it looks? In other words, you know, if it was and had additional windows in there or something like that. So is that well, how does that feel from a neighborhood perspective? Because I hear your concern about looking at a blank wall. So the question is I use essentially opposed to the addition or would or does it make sense for it to have a different look to it. I'm sorry. Am I still unmuted? No, the opposite is the entire build out of the backside. It's just box like it totally goes against the grain of the iPod and the character of the other home in the neighborhoods. The carol one and two families just to expand more living space. And it will clearly impact the sunlight on the buddy's neighbor on the tube. So they will be their side views will be totally in darkness where they now appreciate a lot of sunlight. So overall, it's a total total opposition to the backside. Okay. Okay. So thank you. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, Mrs. Baraza, I'd like to put forth a motion of approval with BPD a design review on Neil Raw massing at the rear and special attention to the reflying. Is there a second? Second, Jean. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. I miss the small. Please make sure you're continuing to work with the neighbors. The next case calling BLA-110-3476-156-Wemps District. This is gotten unit four change of argument from three dwelling units to four dwelling units. The violation of the article 17-9 is the spot in iPod. Article 53-657. The dimensional regulation, the side gap, the certain narrow loss. Article 53-628. Article 53-628. Article 53-628. The multi-family dwelling is the bit. Article 53-69. The area in the position is dwelling units in sufficient. Article 53-69. The linear ratio is excessive. Article 53-69. The use of open spaces is insufficient. Article 53-69. The location of the main entrance. The dwelling shell face the front lot line. Article 53-6. Article 56-35 is insufficient. Ameana Adidas will erect a place. Aaron Daniel, 40 average three-dead spot. So, jealous what's being proposed? It's a pre-existing non-conforming apartment. That's in this basement, i.e. garden level. That's the perfect slide. Thank you. The utility room had used to be spread out through the unit. The work as a permit will indicate later was to put that utility room in the back where the electrician and plumber renewed everything. There are five meters, one for public or for each unit. And there are also four gas meters that... So, Aaron? Yes. Are you the same Aaron who made your debut 20 years ago with those pre-five units? Yes, I am Aaron Daniel. Or, okay, okay, I wanted to make sure. So, yeah, we've both sat on this board and appeared at this board often enough. Okay, so let's just go back to this. Tell us what the floor to ceiling height is. And tell us what the floor to sill height is. 7 foot 6 floor to ceiling. I did not measure floor to sill in the front. I would approximate 5 and a half feet in the rear. Approximately 5 feet, maybe a little bit less to the sill. There's a grain that slightly tilts towards the back. Okay, and tell us about egress to this space. Sure, sure. So, there are three ways to address this unit. So, the primary is of the front steps. And then, in the four-year of the front hallway down into the unit. Which there's a picture of those stairs. Then, in the rear, there are two ways out. One is the staircase up through to the common hallway for all units. And a separate one, which was actually notated on the permit. So, we're going to the utility room. And then, a small staircase up and out of a short height door. Approximately 38 inch tall door. And there are pictures of those slides. Okay, and what's the proposed square foot of this unit? The proposed square feet is 500 feet. 580 square feet towards the studio. I noticed that as a stump bump in there, is there any flooding in that space? We do not have water issue. Some pump is entirely preventive and planning oriented. Okay. Okay. Ms. Baraza, how are the plans? The miniature of the plans are okay. So, I'm trying to figure out if this is a basement unit or a basement basement in the classic sense or not. Can you help me with that, Ms. Baraza? So, this is literally an apartment unit. And my concern is that the height is 7 foot 2 and is not too cold. Usually, you need 7 foot 6 for 3 family. Okay. And you have questions from the board. Are there any elevations that show the relationship of the floor to the grid? Yes. So, I'm looking, there are no elevations, but I'm looking on Google Earth. And currently, you can't really egress out from the window, but there are two means of egress. The representative is stating, there's two means of egress. I'm not so worried about that. The grid is very high. My concern again is that it's an apartment unit and it doesn't have the adequate ceiling height for 3 family. Right. 7-6 is cold. You're out of tip. But one of the problems, I'm less concerned, my question had less to do with egress than it did with the amount of light coming in and how far below the rate it was. Right. So, there's no elevations, but based on the Google Earth, the street view, there is adequate light. I would say from two windows at the front. I'm not going to answer that question. What is the height from floor to, well, first of all, what are you going to do about the problem with the overall height? Secondly, what will be the height from the, if you're going down in order to accomplish 7 foot 6, then it's even further below grade. So, my question is, what will the ultimate height be elevation be from floor grade? I didn't measure to the sill, but I would approximate that it's 5 foot from the front. Oh, no, not the sill to the outside grade. Okay, got it. Sorry, I'm going to misunderstand that. So, my measurement approximation is to the grade. The windows in the front, I'd like to continue down the side that had more light. There's an entire driveway on the left side of this property. And I'd be happy to get elevations and work with any debt, design or beauty to incorporate more light as to the height. There are a few adaptations I could do within the unit, but not many without going down as reference to achieve 7 foot 6. There are higher points throughout that unit. 7, 2. I must spoke earlier when I said 7, 6. 7, 2 is a low point in the unit ceiling height. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, Secretary here. Mr. Domingco has spoken this. I'm going to put it down into the record regarding 156 Web Street. He says, we move one space, space nearest to the common passageway. I just want to be clear on something. This isn't a walk out, right? Like you can't walk right outside. You have to go upstairs. Correct. Okay. Is anybody here to speak? Is there in support or in opposition of the proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. I'm Michael Denev from the Office of Boston City Council, Lydia Edwards. The council remains at the discretion of the board in this project. The councilor asked that the petitioner address community concerns regarding property maintenance. I'm trying to have no response. So a question to the applicant. Is there a tell us about the maintenance? We have a team full time out of a warehouse on Geneva Street, which is only a few blocks away. We managed the real estate among several other pieces of real estate on the block through a software program called that Polio for everything's highly accountable for them. I'm welcoming any input on that front. I could work with with any of the aforementioned people that spoke to specific details and addresses. I would mention I have adopted this block from Webster Street to Singill Adams School. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So given all this information, may I have a motion please? Chair, I'd like to put a motion forward. This is Baraza, motion to approve without a building co-villation for height. So no co-reliefs regardless because we don't know what the flow to sell like this. Correct. Okay. Is there a second? There is no second. So may I have another motion? I'm going to make a motion for tonight without prejudice. Sir, a second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Sorry, sir. It's been denied without prejudice. Calling the next three cases. Calling B.O.A. 116-05-2719-21 Lancaster Street. There are two companion cases. B.O.A. 116-029-773-75-pos way street. And B.O.A. 116-029-39. 31-39. Lancaster Street. That okay. Would you like to do these one at a time? Or would you like me to call three violations and purposes to the record? Yes, let's do them together. This is the 19-21 Lancaster. The applicant seeks to continue to use premises for an open air public hot block for the capacity of 13 phases beyond the existing expiration date of December 31st, 2021. This is also a conjunction with a joint premises of 7375-pos way in 31-39 Lancaster. The violation of Article 6 section 0.3A. Relief is required in additional conditions to restrict the fog in district. This is what 7375. The applicant seeks to continue to use premises for open air parking, block graffiti, but capacity of two handicap parking states beyond the expiration date of December 31st, 2021. The violation of Article 6 section 0.3A. Additional conditions and the restricted pocket district. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney David Gottlieb, 309 Washington Street, Brighton, Massachusetts. I'm here today seeking extension for the use of premises permit for these three locations. They're all located in the Bullfence Triangle neighborhood in the city of Boston. I'm seeking an extension until December 31, 2024. And all three properties, the total number of spaces is 50, total of the three parcels. I met with the downtown north association and was a positive meeting and they stated that they were in support of the continued use of the parking lot. There's a lot of the cost of landscaping and the screening. There is raw iron fence at 19 to 21 landcasters street. There is raw iron fence at 31 to 39 landcasters street. There's also planting bed with a large tree at 31 to 39 landcasters street in regards to the 73 to 75 causers street. There's also a large planting bed with a raw iron fence and plantings that are there facing on causeway street. So I'm happy to answer questions for the board regarding the landscaping of the screening and zoning as well as the use. And please let me know if there's any questions. So I'm trying to understand so 73 to 75 cause way is here for the open hit the public parking of two handicapped spaces. Why does it appear to me that it looks like there are six spaces there? And what is the access to 73 75? So 73 to 75 cause way madam chair you would enter that through landcasters street. So if you wanted to access the parking at 73 to 75 causeway street you would have to go in on landcasters street to access that. And there are two entrances on landcasters street that one could access the parking on causeway street causeway street also includes a large two large trees and a planting bed and a raw iron fence and it's connected to the area on 39 to 39 landcasters street. So it's a large 50 total spaces it's one license under the boss and transportation. I just want to confirm that what I'm looking at for the 73 to 75 cause way street address is in fact two spaces and not six spaces or some other combination. So I can confirm to you that the number of spaces is accurate is listed on the plan in terms of the specifics of the plan how it's laid out I'm not the survey madam chair but the capacity is the same as shown on the plan. If you look at the plan you can see the capacity. Okay how are the plans Miss Faraza madam chair the plans are adequate any questions from the board madam chair secretary yeah I'm a little confused so how there's six spaces or two still I'll give it any answer. So 73 to 75 causeway streets there are there are two spaces and there are two spaces on the permit that we've sought and they've always been two spaces. I understand the questions regarding the plan I'm not the survey or apologize. Okay it's two spaces and that's what's on the use of premises permit that's what we've been working off for years. Very good Mr. Dominguez also spoke on this bounce yes on a point of the record regarding 1921 landcasters 73 cause way 31 landcasters although the three cases of the board just involved in renewal of the current condition. And the opinion of BTD requests to remove each space that involves the movement of vehicles by the attendant the reason behind the request is based on the issue of when the attendant may not be present. When the driver may not may want to leave the parking lot cannot do to the block it's up in their space. This is especially concerned with their own little children involved. Okay and as I look at the plans it looks like 31 to 39 minecaster has those two handicapped spaces number 11 and number 28. So it feels like there's a disconnect between the application and what is on the plans. So I'll just leave it out there in the meantime is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal. Madam chair members of the board this is John a model for the mayor's office in a with services this proposal is received support from the west and civic association as well as others in the area and at this time we'd like to call record and support the project. Good morning Madam of the chair members of the board and I call it on from couple of police office the councilor would like to want record support based on people from the neighbors and the West Bank to the association. Thank you. Madam chair have no raised hands. So it sounds to me like the motion we need to make. I just need to clarify everything here. Yeah I'd like to make a motion to approve two years attention with the provider that holds signature until updated. An updated plan showing the 50 spots. Joe this is Tom. Could I request that you make a particular all instead just a bit updated plans rather than hold signature. And what is the recent on because this is how we've done it so that we do not have to engage any more time on the agenda. And just make sure that eyes are dotted and tease across because we've heard everything on this case. Madam chair it's a crack open situation essentially the boards really continues to be valid. There's no signature that there's no nothing is running so they're appeals period in the front. So we can then request that we receive the plans within two weeks. Will that will not take care of the issue. So I think that's a work matter here. That'll work. Okay so Mr. Bob Lee you've been in front of us open enough. So what we'd like to do is revise plans. We need to see clearly on causeway street that there are in fact only two handicap spaces. No tandem working spaces and that the rest of the town. Like with in two weeks is there a second to the motion. Second all those in favor. And you oppose motion carries Madam chair it's yes. I didn't hear whether or not you're what a time limit on these two years. Thank you Madam chair could I just ask one quick question. Thank you so much for your attention. So I would just have the surveyor prepare new plans to submit. I would submit those to the plans examiner the original plans examiner or to the board. Send it to the ISD office please. Okay the ISD board of appeal of the plans examiner. I'm sorry the board of appeal office. Okay thanks so much. Have a wonderful day. Thank you. Thank you. I think it's a time again of the Paul dies we did you have some? I don't know if Joe would ever attach the two years to his motion. I think it was. I did. He did I had him. Yeah. So in one other question I have Madam chair. Oh Mr. Goddard can you take that up with the staff. Okay. Yeah. Because we do have other items on the agenda. Thank you. Pauling in the next case calling the away one one nine four zero one five five Durham street. So the renovated kitchen about them head out to additional the roof deck and extending existing stairway violation that equal 41 section five. Successive FAR article 16 section eight roof structure restrictions access. Article 41 section six rooftop additions. Name an address for the record please. Good morning Madam chair and members of the board my name is Mel Schuman. I live at and work at 189 Elliott Street in Brookline Massachusetts. I'm here representing a Helen Stoyne with Weber and John Bisk who are also here with me today. Also attending our Abigail Kyle men the architect of the project in Rob LaFont who is the contractor. The appellate so the owners of the top unit at five Durham street they have an existing roof but it's currently accessible only by a rickety exterior spiral staircase which is it's dangerous and becomes even more dangerous as the appellants age. And so they are seeking to build a penthouse to provide safe access to the roof to do so. You have heard that various relief is required including variances for FAR and height and permission to build a headhouse in a headhouse protection area. This is located in the St. Patal protection district so that automatically requires relief for a conditional use permit. Hold on how many units are in this building? I believe there are five units in the building. I believe four units because there's a double that's correct four units in the building. Okay and the deck would stay the same. Tell us about the headhouse. What is anticipated being in that headhouse? Is that an elevator? What is it? Well the headhouse has a stairway which accesses the roof as well as some additional space. It's only 225 square feet. The height will increase from 45 to 55 but it is not visible from the street at all. In fact it's already been reviewed and approved by the St. Patal architectural conservation district commission. The headhouse is in keeping with the neighborhood. There are other similar headhouses throughout the neighborhood including one next door at three Durham Street and one across the street at ten Durham Street. Anyone with fever who is one of the impellances here to speak a little bit more to it. So let me turn it over to him. Good morning madam. Basically there are three elements to the. It's about past airway up from the level of our front condo. There's a half bath that's going in behind the stairway and then the remaining part will be a passageway in between the front deck of the small deck. the size of the deck. So essentially it's a stairwell, it's a half-glass and a pass into it, okay? That's correct. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Baraza? Better chair the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? That rendering makes the head house look awfully big. It does, doesn't it? Because I'm, it does. That's not two-month square feet, I don't think. Well it's adding 225 gross square feet to the building. What is the size of that head house that is showing on the screen right now? What are the dimensions? The total space is 325 square feet, 225 would be living space and the 100 would be the stairway. Our architect Abigail is on if she can clarify. So there's living space there as well as the stairwell. This is not purely functional as an access. It's about a half, Ms. Barla is a half-bath and as represented a pass, a passageway between both decks. Though I do find that a little bit confusing what that means. It states faulty purpose on the plans. Okay. Okay. It's about 342 square feet and 18 by 18 for the first time. Right. Do we have jurisdiction over this or is this the architectural commission from St. Battelle? I do think that we can, we can give our opinion about this. We can just make an opinion or decide that it should be smaller because this does sound given all on the screen the neighborhood rather large. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and see who's here. I just did a quick question. On the left hand side, near the head health. What is that reddish? Reddish near the gate, those are the great, the geeks. Okay. I can't say that. Abigail Calman, the architect. That is an existing. It's a chimney that extends above. Yeah, that we won't be. We're not touching the deck or that. Okay. Thank you. And could I add also that again, it's been approved by the architectural commission. The landmark commission is comfortable with the project and it is it has been supported by numerous neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Hold on. Can we go ahead and listen and get testimony either in support or in opposition? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. George, we're with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We have a new butters meeting for the applicant of five Durham Street on June 28th, where there was great support for the project. The applicant also met with the city with all neighborhood association, which expressed support as well. At this time, our office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, do you have a hand raised? Madam Chair, secretary, here we do have a couple of letters to support. Scott, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes. My name is Scott Mosker. My wife Claudia Kooji, indeed. And I live across the street from Wayne and John. We are in full support of this. I'm a commissioner for the CAC for the back base. I'll think a way project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Scott. Can I hear from somebody else, Mr. Ambassador? Yes, John, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Go ahead. My name is Joan Caraguer. I live at 17 Comberland Street. I'm also the president of the St. Patelff Neighborhood Association. And we do want to put forward our support for this project. I know you're your time constraints. So I won't go any further to say, but yes, we've looked into it and we and the architect review committee approved it and we approve it as well. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Lorraine, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes. My name is Lorraine Steele. I live at three Durham Street, Boston Mass, next door to five Durham. And my husband Lee Steele is also on the phone. We have been involved in the reviews of the proposed project. And under the condition that it is not visible from Durham Street, we're in full support. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Okay. We have the reason that this project comes to this board of the UN doesn't go directly to the architectural review board is there is a reason for that. So I would like to get a motion to on the size of this on this size of this head house. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review paying special attention to the size of the head house. I don't know if we can. I think you can make a motion to reduce the size, but I don't know if we trump landmarks that they've already proved it. You know, then because you know, it just means that every large thing that comes in, we had just rubber stamp for it. When we have seen other projects that have been much more respective of the neighborhood or respectful of the neighborhood. I completely understand that. Could you send it back to landmark, a smaller footprint? Yes, that is exactly what we're going to do is approve it with a reduced footprint. And we don't just mean a nominal reduction, but a paramount of production. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. And your pose. Motion carries. Calling the next case, calling the OA 121 4293 276 to 278. New Breeding is a restaurant or I can see to accommodate a requested fit on the ground floor, ground and first floor, a total of 4600 square feet. Violation dot, a late section three, the restaurant is conditionally used in the B 365 sub district. Name and address of the bracket place. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, the 2012 Miller from the Quote and Miller 28 State Street Boston. I'm joined today by Jamie Bessonette and Mark Curley from the project team. We're here before you today to see a pool for the conventional use permit for the restaurant. And it has the secretary said in the basement on the first floor, the building located at 276 to 278 New Breeding Street. It is in the Boston Proper's zoning districts in the B 365 General Business Sub District. The restaurant uses conditional on this sub district. The appearance can or endure in Jamie Bessonette. Our proposal is to convert this former retail space into an Italian restaurant on two floors. And Jamie are well known and well regarded and very experienced operators. They have worked with their team to design a space that has adequate facilities taking into considerations, comments raised. So John, can you please tell us how many seats are being proposed in this space and how in and because I know when restaurants come in, we want to know seats. We want to know accessibility and we want to know trash because people are very concerned about those rear alleyways. Yes, ma'am. And you know, we so the seating capacity is 128 inside with 40 exterior on private patio, patio on private property. The accessibility it has been through and received its permits. So, you know, at least for the public overview. So it meets the full accessibility standards. The trash is stored internally. We went through this with now a couple of different ways to make sure that the trash we stored adequately so it doesn't affect the neighborhood in any way shape or form. It's been designed with the appropriate facilities to make sure that there is no nuisance created. Thank you. Ms. Barassa, how are the plans? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal or an opposition to this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Molly Griffin from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant has met with the neighborhood association of the back bay and received their inaugural position as well as with the back bay architectural commission regarding the exterior of the building and received their approval. So at this time, the mayor's office would like to go on record and support. Madam Chair, do I have a hand raised? Conrad, are you here to speak in support of opposition for this proposal? I'm in support. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Please take your name and address for the record, please. Conrad Armstrong from 439 Mac and the firewalls tree representing neighborhood association of back bay and the neighborhood association of back bay and the neighborhood association firm that he has the up in that with us and the search for the storage of trash and the app is not opposed to their application. Thank you. And Scott, must it that you pay to speak in support of opposition for this project as well? I think Scott is here for Durham Street. Okay. All set. Sorry. Okay. Can you just blow your hand? I have no additional raised hands, ma'am. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPA Design Review on exterior signage. I think that falls out of the BPA state. And we have already been through the BVAC process on our exterior signage review and capital security. So I'd like to just put forward a new motion of just approval. All those in favor? Aye. I think opposed motion carries the vote. Thank you. Following your next case, following VLA 1193715 962, the 968 Massachusetts Avenue. This is a change of art for warehouse, wholesale business, office and food processing to retail and add one apartment rolling unit. Violet, mechanical 9067 residential uses could be named in Andrews for the record. What do you mean, Madam Chair? The one more pretty Timothy Fraser, PO box five, one of the massive business address on the line with me is Laura. And now now from Cube Smart, Matt Cobb, also from Cube Smart, the applicant and design team. The address here is 968 mass as this is that just a few doors north of 1010 mass. The applicant seeking a tool to form an internal internal rehab to add a necessary apartment rolling unit for its on site manager. The bones to this and the structural are in there when the building was converted to storage the year 2000. But the applicant through its conversations with ISD over the years have been recommended to make this on site manager available so that 24 hours of balance, especially in this neighborhood. So Mr. Fraser, tell us what, so what is the warehouse use? The warehouse use now is that it is self storage because it is also stored. So this is the self storage facility where at some point people were living in those units. That's correct. Okay. In response to that in the conversations with ISD and so clear and those violations, although those violations were cleared up otherwise, it's been a constant recommendation that they sort of complete the on site managers of the events that they can have. That's pretty far from the list. I see. Got it. So this would be 24 hour use. Yes. Okay. So tell us about that residential unit. How many square feet? It's not a minimum. It's 996 square feet. It's one bedroom, a small office, one bathroom, and then sort of a kitchenette and dining area. Okay. And tell us about the means of egress. So there's a staircase that leads right out of the unit to the ground floor and that we close this to to messages that have. Okay. How would the plans, Ms. Horaza? Better chair the printer adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah. I mean, I just have a logistical question. Maybe it's just for us. How do we assure that it's only for the on site manager in the seven? I mean, once we approve it for a five. True. So, I don't know if the board wants to add a visa in this decision. I know that Q smarts eternal policy is not allowed in the residence. It's not even a, you know, it's a one bedroom. It can be used for anybody else. A huge target. It's really something. So it's not somebody's pieta. Terry would be just a unit for on site management. That's correct. And to one person, not to. Are you expecting, are they expecting rotating? Is it just one person? It's just one person. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and supported this proposal? Adam Chikare, members of the board. This is Jason again from the mayor's office today. For the services like to go and record and support this proposal. And a butters meeting was held on June 2nd, which the applicant responded to any of the questions or concerns raised by the budding neighbors. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McEfer and City Council, the Frank Baker's office would like to also go on. Reconent support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan for City Council at large, Michael Plierty, Council of going right now, support. I have no raised hands. Is somebody here from us from you market is to Sullivan on? I don't see. Did we get a comment from from you market? I don't see anything. I can take another quick and there at it. Wasn't any comment. No, there's nothing. Oh, yeah. And this is she has. She has comments in for North Hampton Street, but not on this. Did you check in, Mr. Frazier with with with new market? I went on the recommendation of the mayor's office of neighborhood services as far as the butters and neighborhood association. We did not directly contact at the market association. Okay. May I have a question? Do you have exterior securities around around the unit? Do you have security cameras? Yes, yes. The entire premises is security cameras. I have a lot of site managers. It's the monitor. Okay. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with a two profile one is that this is for the applicant only. And to for the accessory unit to be only for a managed on site management use use. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm sorry. I suppose Joe, I'd like to do. Okay. One opposition motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, board. Following the next case, calling the away 990 440 195. This is a change of occupancy. I'd recommend that you are registered as來 in favor of commissioning that signed. that we have hostage. We can be charged with requirements to say is there aby the government is except they're coincid 갔 Euth. That would have helped those panelists to serve. I'm sorry. Who is this? Jean. Jean for what reason? My previous employer owned property on both sides of this establishment. But you've been gone two years, right? I've been gone, yes. I've been gone since January 2021. So not quite to 2020, so not quite two years. Okay. Okay. So for the record, Ms. Panato has refused to sell. Okay. I guess she has permission. So let me just for the record say that this is a six member board. And the applicant will need five members to be in support. So you have the option of going ahead of the party. The buying Keith is on the line. He's the client. So I will be that to him. I would recommend you'll for it. Okay. I will be going to proceed. Okay. So please, everybody who's going to be talking. Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Good morning, my chair. Members of the board kept a joy story. What happens is Boston, when the petition is rooted in LLC, I advise you the rooted in is also on the call. Today we have to tell us to give a message. Council of Joyce, can you please tell us who the applicants are on this representing the who the applicants are? It's Brian Keith rooted in and it's all a childry of rooted in LLC. It's a Massachusetts limited liability company. Okay. So please go ahead. Okay. So we're requesting a buffer zone variance and conditional use permit for regional cannabis establishment in 1400 square feet of drug for retail space at 195 Douglas Street. Operating hours will be Monday through Saturday at 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. and on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. We need the buffer zone variance because the board has previously approved the cultivation facility within the buffer zone. Transformation does not include retail. Our proposal is about textile retail only store and does not in any way include cultivation. And that would be our reasoning why we would request the variance today. I am Brian Keith as I said on the line. I'm happy to answer any questions the board may have. The key to you is this your first application for cannabis facility. No, we were with you about two weeks ago for our location on the very street. Okay. So you know what our questions are. So please be just to the point and tell us about the details of what is being proposed here because because this is rocks for a doesn't mean that we give it any less of a of of of an analysis. Of course, absolutely. We're proposing as Kevin said, 1500 square feet of recreational cannabis. And we're here is because there is a growth facility within the half mile buffer zone. It's 100 Hampton Street. And that's what creates the required variance. Other than that, cannabis is conditional use. That's the other reason we're here, but other than that. It's the growth facility. We've had a robust community process. What what we want to know is about the operation of the facility. As you know, when you when you came in for the application on new Bernstreet, we asked about security. We asked about waiting. We asked about all kinds of things. So please give us a robust presentation. Sure. Absolutely. So customers will enter on Dudley Street. You can see that arrow at the top of the screen. There's a holding area right through there, which is partition from the main retail space. The main retail space is to the left and top of the screen. They will check out at the bottom of the picture, which is the rear of the store. And then they'll exit through a separate door than the door that they entered. They'll have to talk on Dudley and they would exit on to heavier place, a private way. And that's that last arrow at the bottom of the screen security. So once again, so usually people check in twice. How what is the double check in that you're having here? We'll do a triple check. We'll check IDs at that first arrow everywhere. We'll check IDs for a second time in the reception area, which is below the arrow in the middle. That's the secondary ID check where we'll be using a massport style ID check for verification of identity. That's when they'll be granted access to the retail section of the store. Your third ID check will happen at the rear of the store prior to accepting products. Okay. And tell us about just security detail. Yep. So similar to Newberry Street, Michael Ware and Ware Security will be just pulled it up. They will be in charge of all of our security. We'll have five security personnel on staff at all time. One who's watching all the security cameras. Three on the floor, one at the front door, and the fifth individual. Sorry, two on the floor, one at the front, one at the security camera, and the fifth individual would be a rover who is going between outside and inside and just keeping and keeping track of everything, relieving people, etc. We'll have cameras about 24 cameras on the interior as well as the exterior of the store. And those cameras will be shared with Boston police live as well as as as I mentioned monitored live. Okay. And then what is the anticipated proposing five security people? How many staff? About 30 staff for this store. Not all of ones, of course, but 30 individuals would be on staff approximately. And we have committed to a hiring plan that sees us 80% Boston residents, 51% people of color, 51% women, and 50% Roxbury residents. 51% by-pop 51% women. And what's the third job? That's including management positions as well. And what was that question? I'm sorry. I have so, okay, so minimum of Roxbury residents 50%. Okay. So you did tell us about the hours of our operation. Will you be taking online sales? Yes. When we begin, when we commence operations, we will be online all week to start while we get an understanding of the demand. And then we will, of course, be offering order ahead for anyone who wishes to do so. Then does this, this development come with parking? There are six spots available for us that are that are on site connected to the building. On six spots that there's 12 spots. Currently, they're all being used by one tenant, but the landlord has given us rights to six of those spots. And so you're proposing that you will have six spots. However, at any one time, you will have security and staff. So what is your plan? How are you going to accommodate security staff and visitors without creating a traffic nightmare on a street that's already fairly narrow. And has a lot of traffic on it. So, tell us, tell us what you're thinking about. Well, you know, that was one of our main concerns and was one of the concerns that we heard as we spoke and worked with the community. So much so that we retained two individual, two companies to perform independent traffic studies. Those companies, Howard Steinhardtson, as well as VHB, both came back and said that there would be a minimal. I can't remember the exact technical term that they used, but it was basically a negligible impact on the current traffic levels. Additionally, the traffic engineers provided us with recommendations, which we have taken all of those recommendations and will be implementing. MBGA passes for all employees, blue bike membership for all employees, pre ordering as we discussed using a curb management system to keep the sidewalk clear on Dudley. And we'll also have a real time transportation screen in the reception area to help people decide which mode of transportation to choose as well as on our website. Okay, so I'm not mistaken just to add into that. This is dot Joyce with Ruegen Rott's very there will be no staff allowed parking on site. It will be all site parking only for staff if they choose to drive, which we're hoping to accommodate through other means. Yeah, I mean, that's, I mean, having been caught in that traffic on Dudley street far too many times. It's just a nightmare street and sadly, you know, the spillover is on residential streets or through orchard. So that that is really my concern about this. So I still think that you need to look at this far more clearly. Can you talk about the curb management system that you've listed here? What does that mean? Sure, what we plan on doing is bringing technology to bear on this specific issue that we're talking about. And we've already engaged with the company by the name of curb flow. They began rolling out their technology in Washington, DC. And they're basically used all over the city by different retailers and it allows what their cameras basically do is it looks at the street near the location. It can also look at different parking lots when you combine not just one retailer having it, but multiple retailers using it. Then you have basically a network that's looking at all different parts of the city and where and the cameras can tell you where there's parking and where there's turnover from park caughters to open spaces. That allows people who do choose to drive a real time look at the area and a real time look at where they're parking lots. So what we can do with that technology is then place those cameras on public or private buildings and looking at places like the Blair lot, which has about 90 spaces like the Ruggles Street lot, which has about 75 spaces and all the other different public opportunities and private opportunities for parking in the area, allowing our customers to know where and when there are opportunities around our location. Because Mr. Keith and Mr. Childry, you both know that all these parking lots that are theoretically open right now have proposed developments on them. So, you know, so there is a limited lifespan on those on that parking availability. Let's see, tell us again about delivery. When is delivery anticipated to occur? Well, personally, we have an application for delivery in the pipeline right now. I believe right now there may be one operating delivery in Boston, but there could also be none. I'm not currently sure. There are applications available, but we anticipated delivery of product to your, sorry, I was not clear. Delivery of the product will take place in the morning before activity begins to pick up to New Dean Square. Our store will not open until 10 a.m. So we anticipate somewhere between the 7 to 8 a.m. on ballpark for deliveries. Those deliveries would take place on heavier place the private way and will so off of the main road, Dudley Street. And we'll go through that side door that we currently use as an exit for customers. And tell us about any conflict that we get covered with school buses are children walking to walking to school with that delivery schedule. Sure, I mean, well, like I said, our deliveries will take place on a private way. And our deliveries with our delivery vehicles would be able to park in the available parking. So they won't be on Dudley Street and they won't even be blocking the private way, which has access to vehicular traffic. And when we do deliveries, we would be in a parking spot. That's our parking spot. So our deliveries won't block traffic. We won't be double parking and things of that nature. And what is the owner of this building? The owner of the building is a company called Trel Management owned by Ian Co-Trel. He's a local resident who lives in Jamaica playing at the woods. So Trel, how do you like to have that? So whoever has to go on or whatever, can you guys mute everybody? Oh, one thing that I just wanted to add because you did ask about young people, you know, one thing that we just recognizing where we are in Boston, one thing that we're doing that I don't think any other cannabis business in the state is doing is that we've chosen to close our doors for an hour during the school day, during school dismissal in New Being Square. That way, you know, there's really no way to mitigate young people or anyone from walking by our building. But we're doing more and we've actually made a condition within our host community agreement with the city of Boston that we would close our doors for an hour, you know, during this during the school day during dismissal. So you'll be closed. And we've tied that time, I believe it's 145 p.m. to 245 p.m. With further discussion with the Boston cannabis board as to how we finalize what that time is, but that right now that's the time that we're holding to close. Hey, hey, I'm just a massive can we teach everybody a place? Yeah, I think everyone's me, I said for you, I agree. I'm not going to talk about the market, but I'm going to talk about the market. Okay. So how are the plans, Mrs. Sub-Rossle? That I'm chair of the plan, sir, adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I just have a couple questions. Is there another dispensary on Washington Street? The Boston cannabis board approved a second dispensary after our approval to place. So we were the first recreational, the second would be on Washington. And then the first cannabis business was the grow facility on Hampton Street. Ultimately, they were the first, but we were the first that recreational. Is this a free here from the cannabis board? I find out which one was approved by the cannabis court on Washington Street. Madam chair, this is consecutive accounts with the BCB. There was an approval by the BCB for a second establishment in this area, but this was the initial approval rooted in LLC was approved. That was voted on and approved prior to the Washington Street location. And my next question is how far are you from the school? I'll talk about the senior. You know, Miss Hawkins, what was the address on Washington Street? I believe I'm just playing it up. I believe it's 2177, but just give me one second. And I can confirm for you with my apologies. Is this next assignment's liquor store? Yes, it is. Okay, so a couple of weeks ago, we approved that space for what is that school? The school rocks very crap. That was the frontage was approved for rocks very crap at 2177, the Washington Street. I'm going to throw out that and chair. My mistake, it is 2363 to 2365 Washington Street. How many reasons? Yes. What's the? What's the cop cross street to that? It's rocks very street. It's like right, it's right down. It's less than a four mile away from this proposal location. The picture is clear. The dispensary that you're describing is basically next to Silver Slipper. It's next to Bank of America. It's a costume, a Colossus project. Correct, exactly. Okay. But he hasn't come in on that. Okay. Okay, God. How close are we to a school? What's like we're close to Stam? We're close to Boston even in Dadry. So we're about a door to door. We're about 450 feet from the Bayanything Academy. And we're about, I would say roughly 600 feet. Again, door to door from the Dearborn Stam Academy. There was a rules change at the state level where if there's something called an impossible barrier, it's no longer measured door to door. When you're looking at the map that you're looking at, the proximity to the Bayanything Academy is actually a grassy noel in the back of their driveway, or a parking lot, which is on top of a 10 foot retaining wall. So what I'm describing is something where, you know, if you went and went to that retaining wall, you'd still be looking at the back of our building and you really couldn't see it. So the wisdom of the kind of Canada's control commission, and that if there was an impossible barrier between the dispensary and a school, that they would now measure walking distance versus point to point. So in this case, by Zilt by Code, we are a thousand feet from the Day and Eve Academy, and about a thousand feet from the, more than a thousand feet from the Stam Academy. And we have documentation from a surveyor, so back that up, as well as approval, that what the surveyor said is approved by the CCC, because Leslie Hawkins with the BCB forwarded this information to the Canada's control commission, and they approved it. Okay, so again, so it's entirely dependent on a barrier that's maintained by somebody else. Should that change Miss Hawkins, what happens? Madam Chair, that's a good question. This is the first time with this rule change that either the CCC or the BCB or this board is considering something under the revised regulations regarding the school buffer zone. I believe that if, because the school is pre-existing, should there be a change that impacts the impassable barrier, then the use would have to be reconsidered. I think it would be different if the establishment was cited before. This rule, but in this case, I believe that the use would have to be revisited with all of the various boards as well as the state, but this is certainly a case of first impression, as we've never dealt with this before. And do childcare facilities count about with this buffer zone? I just want to make sure that there are no child-cancellacies in proximity. Absolutely. So as this board is aware, the initial language at the state level that we're legally obligated to apply was much more expansive in what was prohibited within the 500-foot radius, but it was subsequently amended to a K through 12 existing public or private school offering educational services. And the state has been very specific about that. We've had a number of conversations that childcare facilities, cars, playgrounds, even a gymnasium of a school would not fall by under the language at the state level. So for example, just randomly asking if there was a head start program, this facility could be within 500 feet of a head start program then. Yes, and get obviously with the various boards involved, they could add the BCB and this board could take into consideration the proximity, but it's not a barrier to entry in terms of going through their due process right to a here. Can you tell us if there's any daycare facility in proximity? Not that I'm aware of. The closest daycare facility that I'm aware of is Roxbury Roots Montessori, which is on Washington Street, near or connected to within Bartlett Place. Between Bart and the one in orchard is that there anymore? If there's one in orchard, that would be further down this street. Again, I do not know this for certain, but knowing the areas I do, that would be further within orchard gardens closer to like Adams, you know, further down the street. I can't think of this. There's like 1-3. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Yeah. A couple of questions. I wanted to comment that all the buffer zone requirements seem to be a moving target, and I remain utterly confused by them. The cultivation facility on campus, is there any, you know, learning plans for that at some point to have a retail component? Not that we know of. That being said, we did submit a letter of support from the owners of the cultivation facility supporting our project. And Commissioner, this is last week from the PCB. We have no application on file. Nor do we have any indication that they're looking to collocate recreational facility there as well. The final question was just that this additional one on Washington Street that was subsequently approved to your application. How what happened by the buffer zone on that one? Is that a question from me or from the hawkins? I guess from the hawkins. Absolutely. So in our rules and regulations for the BCB, we married the variance language when we're, when we are evaluating post establishment within a half mile. So in that case, the board found that even with the heightened level of scrutiny that the BCB applies when there's an existing establishment, they felt that based on the traffic studies and the proposals that the neighborhood would not be negatively impacted by two within that within that location. And they found that it was an appropriate site. It's interesting. Okay. And it really, and how did the bowling building and the fact that there are students that pop in and out there? How did that factor in your decision making and also the fact that in Newby and station, we see after school, a great number of kids coming in, not only from Madison Park, but from Academy of the street. I mean, it's students from everywhere. How did that fact come in this in these decisions from the hawkins? Absolutely. So the BCB has very specific criteria that it has to evaluate with each application pursuant to the ordinance that created the board. And security is one of those, I believe it's 20% of what's considered. And the board looked at what the proposed operations were, what the proposed signage was, what the security was going to be. And they did not feel that this would have a negative impact on the community. And they felt that the applicant had adequate protections in place to ensure that there would no, but there was no access for individuals underage, nor was there a likelihood of product being shared with anyone underage. So this board knows these establishments should they go through the BCB process, the ZBA, and then once they go to the CCC, there is a, the CCC has very strict requirements in terms of security ranging from where the bolts are located to the cameras, to accessibility of the footage to the board at its hearing did feel that both this applicant and the subsequent applicant that were hurt did not pose a negative impact on the community. So that was appropriate in time, place, and manner for each of these locations. So I basically have a question for you, Mr. Miss Hawkins. Still want to call you by your old name, but Miss Hawkins. What's that name, but I appreciate that. So the question is, we've seen a number of stores, and this is my observation, even going by 20 years in Newby and Square, where liquor stores sell, you know, net bottles. And so there is an issue not only with public public issues of of a vibration, but also trash. What what what processes does this, the commission, have in place to ensure that we are not going to see such public consumption in proximity of these stores. And specifically this store. Absolutely. So just like on the licensing board side, in addition to being the, and citing authority for just like the licensing would do with the, with the package store, the BCB is also the regulatory authority. And that's one of the reasons it was so important to have a license besides the state license actually issued from the city. But if there are issues, that's something that can be suspended, it can be revoked or it can be conditioned. We have had a number of applications where the community has said we would like to see just just as the example you gave, no, nips, we would like to see no single cannabis cigarettes. So that was not the case with either of these applications, but we've certainly seen that. I can tell you firsthand that the licensed premise unit of the Boston Police Department, along with the chairwoman, Kathleen Joyce and myself have conducted random inspections of the existing cannabis establishments, and we will continue to do so just like we would a package store or a restaurant. So there is an ongoing regulatory authority over these establishments and to date with the six recreational that are operational, we have actually had little to know, little to know issues. The other piece that is part of their post community agreement, they each establishment, if approved and operational has an obligation to provide a 3% of its broke sales to the city. So that's a question to the 3% tax and those that money actually goes to any impacts specifically from that establishment. So not cannabis for the war on drugs or the bill war on drugs as a whole, but that specific establishment. But there are issues then there is money that's being held by the city to address those in addition to the regulatory oversight. It's not it's not a bond or anything like that that really holds them in a in a very special fashion to meeting their requirements and the host community agreements. It is not a bond. It's actually 3% of their gross revenue taken quarterly, but at the same time this board has the legal ability to suspect and or evoke their license to operate at any time. Okay. And if I could add, if the host would move to slide 17, we actually address exactly what you're referring to, because we want to be good neighbors in the area that sites us. And we want our customers to also be good neighbors because we feel that they're reflexive reflexions of us. And as we did on Newberry Street, if someone is publicly consuming, if someone is throwing their box or litter on the ground or double parking or something of that nature, we simply won't we won't serve them. And you know, it's a it's a benefit to the individual. It's not a right or a guarantee that they can come into our store. And if they're doing things that the community doesn't want to see, then we just would not serve them. Okay. Last last time, Mr. Master, can you mute everybody? Board members, do you have any questions of the applicant? Okay. We figured out that the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either and support our in opposition of this proposal? Anybody, either in support, are an opposition who is on this call? Phone, walk on this or please start raising your hand so we don't have a hiccup as we go through the list. All right. So more than Madam Chair and members of the board, Jason again, the mayor's office. We would like to go on record in a position of non opposition. The rooted in Roxbury team understands the importance of building wealth and bringing equity to the cannabis industry. And is also created a new community model to help uplift the surrounding community and business district. Jason, we can hear you went mute. A Miss Ambassador, can you help Jason? We can't hear him. Hold on. Can you hear us? He's unmuted. I don't. There we go. Okay. Jason, want to start from the beginning. Please. Can you hear me now? Yes. Go ahead. All right. Sorry. So, Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Jason again, again from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record in a position of non opposition. The rooted in Roxbury team understands the importance of building wealth and bringing equity to the cannabis industry. And is also created a community model to help uplift the surrounding community and business district. This applicant has completed the community process and has shown commitment to working with the community to address concerns brought about during that process. On record, I want to bring up some of these concerns, which was the regarding of the impact on parking concerns regarding nearby students and pedestrian traffic and lastly, the substance abuse issues happening in the Roxbury community. Thank you. Madam Secretary here, we have one is of opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, I do have quite a few raised hands. Can I also just note that of your calling in and you want to speak in support of opposition to press star three if you're calling in. I'll start with the raised hands. Please. Hi, Mario, good morning. My name is live at Koni representing my pleasant for buying neighborhood association three three nine, Dudley Street, I would like to preface this testimony by stating that I am an active community leader. Therefore, I am fully aware of the numerous tactics that are being employed and being prosecuted. So hold on, Ms. Coney. Please, don't read us a letter. Just tell us bullet points. To everybody who's on this call. It's very short. It's very short. We have a few major points. We better process bullet points than long letters, OK? So please hold the mic. OK, so I recognize that this hearing is focused on zoning. But I must testify on record that this proponent has used unethical, deceptive, and unfair practices to get to this point. Those who are in support of this application stand to profit in some form of fashion. So the community, which includes orchard gardens, neighborhood organization, Roxbury Council, neighborhood council, Roxbury United neighborhoods, Roxbury passed forward neighborhood association on Platinum Forest and by neighborhood association, which one of the applicants lives. Tommy's Rock, Newby and Square Coalition, and many residents within all of those catchment areas are adamantly opposed to this location due to the numerous factors. They are not being a neighbors when they force themselves on our community. So there is also a belief that the community and the community that District 7 Councilor and now acting Mayor Jamie has been quietly supporting the proponent's second application in this cannabis shop, which was submitted after the school's own regulation was changed. Despite the community's request, we have no information whether she supports or opposes their proposal. A neutral stance gives us no indication. This is troubling since the applicants have not disclosed who their investors are, and they're forcing their business on our community. They could at least tell us who the investors are. Thank you. Thank you. So anybody else who's going to be speaking, what we've heard so far is the concern about the investors in this business and the number of organizations in our position. So please go ahead and give us new information, the next few speakers. Robert George, you've been unmuted. Can you say your name and address for the right to please? Thank you Madam Chair and members of the board. Robert George, executive director with Rox Bay Main Street, 2343 Washington Street. Rox Bay Main Street, voted by his board of directors and representatives over 200 residents and business and the new venture air Rox Bay community that may fully endorse the cannabis industry in Newby and Square. One of our goals is to attract a health and business to Rox Bay. We believe that the cannabis industry will increase a new foot traffic that we think will lead to spill over and increase success for the small business in Rox Bay in general. A couple to the fact that one of the partners in this business maintains and operate one of the most successful business in the Newby and Square at a very high standard. So we believe all of those qualities will continue to enhance and improve the European Square on behalf of Rox Bay Main Street. I thank you. Thank you. Okay. So, this is James. You've been unmuted. Can you say your name and address for the record please? Yes, my name is Saskia Van James and I'm a Cambridge resident. I work at Massachusetts Recreational Consumer Council as educator, lobbyist and board member and I'm speaking. Miss James, thank you. I'd like to hear from somebody who lives in proximity of this proposal. Okay. Call it 29. You've been unmuted. Just 617-266. Are you in a butter to this proposal? Yes, I am. Okay. Can you say your name and address yet for the record please? Yes, my name is Saskia Van. I'm the chairman of the New Vien Square Coalition and I reside in Rox Bay. Let me just say, I hear the talk about who supports this. Let me just say that from a ground level, the bottom line that was said previously, that the community is highly opposed to what we refer to as these drug dens, whether it be 195 or the other one who's been referred to. Look, the bottom line is that with New Vien Square, we're looking for a new day in the square and we're working with folks who have an addiction to get them services they need. So they won't be hanging in the square and trying to get rid of the criminal elements providing that you've talked about the second location that's being proposed. It's right next to a mythical steel liquor store and we have folks going in and out of there that are needed services and just barely surviving out there. So let me just say that there are six schools in the area. There's a pop stop almost an immediate front door of the 195 world. If you drive by there and school's getting out, we've got large numbers of children. Mr. Canbonne, thank you very much. So you're adding to the concern about location and proximity to a large number of people. There's a large number of youngsters. Okay. Anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Ryan. You've been on New Dicking. Stay tuned in, my name is Ann. I just want to thank you very much. My name is Ryan Hanson. I'm a Southern opt-in street in Boston and I'm a real estate investor in Mission Hill and looking in the green square right now. I wanted to speak out in support of this opportunity. I feel so Ryan. So Ryan, do you live in Roxbury in the neighborhood? I live right on the South End Roxbury line. Okay. So may I get somebody who is a resident of Roxbury, please? Okay. Marilyn Chase, you've been unmuted. Thank you. This is Marilyn Chase. I live in 47 Hutchings Street. We like to think we're in Roxbury, though we have been designated as Dorchester. I've done a proud resident of Roxbury, Dorchester, for over 40 years. I am a proud investor in this project. And I'm pleased that it had the opportunity along with a number of other people of color in Roxbury residents to invest in a growing industry in Boston that we have typically been locked out of. I am very much in support of this project along with my husband, Richard. Miss Chase, are you invested in this particular project or in the LLC? I am invested in this particular project. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, somebody else, please? Connie, you've been unmuted. Can you say your name and address for the record please? Yes, Connie, 4471, Beck Street in the Roxbury section of Roxbury. So I have five different bullet points really quick. The Boston zoning code has not been changed and updated to reflect that the, to my knowledge, has been changed to reflect that the Boston can't support is proposing here. So I think this decision is premature today because it hasn't been changed in the Boston zoning code. It should be changed legally before you start applying something because you're setting precedence that in the future. Anyone who comes to you and says we're going to be doing this and we're going to be changing this law. I think it being premature. So you don't set precedence to the traffic study as the state was coming traffic levels were in pandemic times. So current traffic levels are lower than they would normally be. So we're taking a risk that we're looking at traffic that has not been brought back up to the standard levels. And I will tell you that residents in the area have had to go home and going through to be a square. They can take them 30 minutes to go home and it can be less than two miles to go home at 30 minutes. The component is saying exiting onto a live driveway as the exit that does not make sense is dangerous. And if you close up the driveway, but you said vehicles coming in and out and still think people are in danger. You're directly across from a part and a playground across the street within. You know, the width of a street, you're directly the extra playground and a part. And the fifth point is the definition of a cannabis facility. I don't know that they define the manufacturing in the retail as separate parts under the definition of a distance from retail facility. And those are my five points. Thank you. Thank you. Just to correct the record, the information that VHB and how it's financing news. Just like the previous. Hold on. I will call on you later. Thank you. I want to hear from anybody else who's here to give testimony. Everybody who's spoken on I'm watching at the race and everybody who's spoken, please lower your hands. Thank you. Are they heard and been unmuted? Can you state your name and act as for the record, please? I did it by mistake. Okay. Can you lower your hand? I think that is. Make sure that is everyone's chair is miss. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Jonathan Napoleon. Yeah, my name is Jonathan Napoli from the Boston gardener at 2131 Washington Street. And I would like to speak out in support of the project of Newbie and Square. I'm also a board member of the neighborhood, the Newbie and Square neighborhood association. It's given its unanimous approval to this project and has met personally with the team members and we've been very impressed with both the team and their plan. Thank you, Mr. Napoli. Anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? I'm Pam Smith. You've been unmuted. I'm a state name and act as for the record, please. Yeah. Can you hear me? Yes. I'm with my daughter. So my name is Connie. And I live at 144 St. St. and I am in opposition of this proposal for just for some of the reasons I've been stated because of the heavily issues that we have already in the community with substance abuse. I just, and I personally live right there at the center of that district and it's just a problem. And I'm just waiting for the city to be more active and really helping our community. And I just don't see how this is going to help our community bring them more substance. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Isee this the keys Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Okay her Know She Perout Know You covered a lot of what people lia Know you covered a lot of what people realized in their position. The one thing is. There is Nice You probably his California적인 It's definitely a spell over into the neighborhood. Can you just describe to us anything you might, this is a social issue or community issue. Is there anything that you're doing on that behalf to support the community? Well, I would say one beyond education within the store once you enter. I think the reality is, and this is this is gonna be my opinion. The Newbian Square is an extension of Mass and Cast because Newbian Square shuts down at about 2 p.m. in the afternoon. There isn't enough activity in the area in order to keep that element out. They come to Newbian Square because there's not enough people there who are actively engaging in commerce, actively spending money. That's why the element that you're referring to for Mass and Cast comes to the so hard neighborhood. I live four blocks away to where I'm proposing this. Thank you. So that's what that being said, maybe a plan on bringing at minimum 300 people to our store a day. That's 300 people who've never come to Newbian Square. Newbian Square is the heart of Roxbury's business district. That's the heart of Roxbury's business district. All right. And Mr. Keith, I love there, so I do know this. You're speaking to me. So anyway, so I just want to also I just want to also just correct one thing. If I may, there were about 180 letters of opposition. There were 471 letters of support. So just to be clear, we have a lot of support. We have some opposition, but we have overwhelmingly more support than opposition. That should be clarified because there was no mention of the support that we do have, including from District 7 City Counselor, An SSIB George, and businesses who directly have but our location, including Sui joint, who also submitted a letter of support. So it should be noted for the record that that support does exist. Mr. Keith, Mr. Adam Chair, if we did have those letters, I would have said that. So if you have them and you want to send it to us, then please go. We only have two. Ms. Haynes has those letters as of two weeks ago. Jessica, the ambassador was also on the email where I provided that information. I can forward the email right now if necessary. It's, I have it right here. Try again to test if that email was sent. 471 letters of support. Mr. Ambassador, can you please mute everybody and just leave the board open and may I have a motion please? I'm going to make a motion for denial with our prejudice. We're in a, we get put in this weird position with the buffer zoning, other dysfactory, and I just would like to make a motion with the denial with our prejudice. Is there a second? I'll second that. All those in favor? Yes. Any opposed? Any opposed? No opposed? No opposed. So there's two, two oppositions. We are a six member board. May I have another motion please? I like to put forward a motion of denial. Okay, is there a second to that? Okay. Okay, you know what? I'm going to make a motion. I'm going to make a motion. I'm going to make a motion. Okay, okay, you know what? So, what? Perfect. And let me try, I'm going to make a motion for approval with the FDA review for signage. Mr. General is absolutely right about the changing, the shifting sense of the rules that are driving me nuts. Sorry, I think the question being is. But nonetheless, I'm making motion and if it's a second to that. Let me just clarify something. Ms. Buraz, what is the difference in your mind between denial without prejudice and denial? Well, the denial without prejudice is assuming that the location is okay and they just need to revise the plan of it doesn't really change the issues that were in front of us. I am opposed to the project based on the letters of oppositions from the community. I don't know how long ago that I didn't mean to put you on the spot. Okay, so Mr. Olic, you were the last one with the motion. Forgive me. Your motion is for approval with BPA design review. Is there a second? Okay, there is no second. So let's go back. Our options then are denial without prejudice and denial. So may I have a new motion? Okay. So if I may, I think that this is unfortunate because there seems to be paperwork that was submitted. Hold on, Mr. Keith, if you need to be quiet, this is a board discussion at this point. So my motion for denial without prejudice is to leave the option open for this applicant to come back because... At this location? Potentially. I mean, we have a location that's been approved by the Kansas Board that we haven't seen yet, that I think we can evaluate that. I do think that there needs to be a dispensary in this area. It isn't a need. It's just where should we sit? So I thought, Brian. So I think I brought that. Yeah, so Mr. Baraza does have a point when she says that this... For her perception, for the denial, the straight denial vote says that this location is not right because there are too many related issues with the location. It's not to say there's not another location in Roxbury that works or New Bend Square that works. So again, so we are back to the point. Is it denial or denial without prejudice? Because either works in my perspective because it sounds like there needs to be some more significant look at the proposal. I'll second, Mrs. Baraza's denial. Is there... is there... is all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? No, I don't have a opposed to you, Mark. Mark's opposed. There were five members in support of the denial. So it's been denied. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Madam Chair, would you like to take a break before we know it? Madam Chair, would you like to take a break before we know it? Madam Chair, would you like to take a break before we know it? I will call 11 o'clock. It's now 11.1. I'll call any deferral that was brought out for 11 o'clock cases to give you the address first. 196th Street, Mr. Secretary. 196th House for the Recreation of the following BOA 1198971196 House Street. Name and address for the Recreation. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board Richard Lins. 245th Summars 3D Spos to the Medafe petitioner. We are requesting a deferral in this matter to review the BPD of recommendation on this. So is this us, you've, oh, so this is the first request for deferral. May I have a motion, please? A motion is for. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. He opposed. The date, please. Have a date of October 5th at 1230. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, 134th Tarris Street Apologies. What's the call? 134th N 134th. Okay. HBOA 121 1031 134th Tarris Street. Name and address for the Recreation. Good morning, Madam Secretary. Members of the Board, Attorney Nexus Zool, and the academic, well, the Annellar 28th, and the state street 28th, here with two embossed and looking for a deferral, we need to go back to the community alliance, and the personnel for their second meeting. It's on August 18, which is eight days from now. We just, frankly, were scheduled too quickly for the zoning board hearing, and we need one more meeting with them by their five laws. Yeah, may I have a motion, please? A motion for the firm. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You'll also have a date of October 5th, at 1230. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals that were trials for 11 o'clock only? Okay. It is now 1143. We will take a 15-minute break, and we will reconvene at noon time. The meeting is now adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It was a letter of fright in my last effort. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Board of Appeal for Tuesday August tentis back. In session before we listen to the next case, I just wanted to take a roll call, Mr. Fortune. I'm still here now,我 Chair mind. Mr. Regario. Miss Dong here. Miss Baraza. Man chair still here. Great. Miss Benado. Here, Madam Chair. Thank you. Let's go back, Mr. Regario. And you back on. Attorney Bloom, let us know when he's back, okay? Or I'm going to drive home. Thank you. Mr. Hampton. Where else would I be on a tea stay? Exactly. This is the place to be. Okay. Mr. Fortune, let's proceed. Thank you, Madam Chair. Calling next. Case calling. DOA 11668242825. Nelland Road. This is subdivided, locked into two lots. Direct view. Semia Tatch, single family dwelling. Townhouse I've pulled one archery parking. The project is part of the Department of Naval Development, the violation of Article 65 section 9, the law of areas and sufficient. Article 65 section 9, the lock with is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the lock frontage is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the whole area ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building type number of stories is excessive. And Article 65 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you. My name is Ralph Parent, 15 Green Ops 3 door testers. There were two months and four. We're looking at my architect, Rameshwani. This is a project for the Department of Naval Development where we're developing new construction homes. This case specifically is where Semia Tatch, single family dwelling. Half the building, 27 Nelland Road, was approved two weeks ago. This half of the building, 25 Nelland Road, has the same zoning relief requests. I'll let my architect speak more about that in a moment. Okay, I think that everybody who was on that case is here today but for Miss Pinato. And Miss Pinato, you're aware of the D&D projects and the prototypes that they have, right? Yes. Okay. So I think I can sound the last time what is the handicap unit or handicap accessibility. So I'm assuming that this is still something that's on the radar screen here with us. Is that a question to me? I'm sorry. Yes, it's for you. Yes, it is still on the radar. Taking back a little bit, there was three topics really. It was to get in contact with some neighbors that are opposed and one specifically at 26 Nelland Road. I did reshot to that of butter and I was not successful. However, I spoke in with her neighbors and provided my contact information. Okay. And she was the issues that Miss Baraza explained which is a handicap accessibility. And I've gotten in contact with the Department of Neighborhood Development. They were on the call as well. And at this point, they're having their internal discussions which I'm not invited to at the moment because that's not what the RFP called for. And lastly, Madam Chair, one of your concerns was the retention of motor trees. And my team and I, we've gone through significant efforts to try to keep motor trees on site. And those are the three topics that we discussed mainly two weeks ago. Thank you. Miss Baraza, how are the plans? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, that was the board. Conorning with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We could go reckon support of this proposal. It was through a D&D-led community process and engaged many community partners and this crucially bringing affordable housing much needed during this House of Crisis. Thank you. Madam Chair, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. And I also want to commend the applicant for being conscious of the points that we put forward. Thank you. Madam Chair, I do not have any raised hand. As well. Okay, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. And I also want to commend the applicant for being conscious of the points that we put forward at the last hearing. Thank you. I'll second. All those in favor? All right. I can take any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. I can't wait to have a great day. Thank you, too. Today's calling the LA-121-3919. 2200, I was a doorchester avenue. This is a change of opportunity to a general group care residents and administration office to Gavin House will renovate the existing building and use the building as part of the substance abuse program. Interior innovation, new structural openings, new window, and entrance to the facade upgrades. The violation of the Article 65 section 8, general group care use is forbidden. The Article 65 section 8 administration of office use is forbidden. Name and address for the record please. Hold on, Ms. One Minute, Ms. Baraza. Do you have to recuse? Yes, Madam Chair, I'd like to recuse myself. Okay, thank you. Thank you. So, to the applicant, this is a six-member board and you need five members in support. It's your choice whether to proceed or not. We'll proceed. Okay, so please go ahead for your name and address on the record and tell us what's being proposed. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law, 75 Arlington Street in Boston. I represent the Gavin Foundation, which is the proponent of this project. The Gavin Foundation proposes with this application to change the occupancy of the former convent at St. Gregory's to a general group care residents and administrative offices for its program. The zoning relief before you today are two use variances, one for a general group care residents and one for their administrative offices. All of the work to this existing building will be to the interior. No changes to the footprint of the building or any exterior changes, rather a complete conversion of the convent space would actually lend itself quite well to the setup for individual rooms for the proposed residents of this facility. And the proposed use is a 30-bed women's residential recovery program for women who are homeless or living in other dysfunctional circumstances. The average length of stay will be four to six months and the facility will be fully staffed by professional licensed individuals in the recovery space. It will be five full-time staff members during the day, three in the evening and two on the overnight shift. In terms of the Gavin Foundation and its experience with similar programs in Boston, their headquarters is in South Boston. And with me on the hearing is Mr. John McGann, who is the president and CEO of the Gavin Foundation. And Mr. McGann would just like to briefly a minute talk about this site location and the proposed women's program at this location. So John. So Mr. Mr. McGann, we're gonna jump the gun a little bit and ask you very specifically, will these residents have children with them? Or do you see these as single individuals? These will be single individuals and should be determined that somebody is pregnant, once they've been into the program that their child will be allowed to stay for three months. Okay. Of course part of three months and your average stay is 46. And just tell us generally how the day is set up and the one thing that we've heard a lot about in other projects that we've seen is the lack of, I don't know if it's called entertainment or something to keep residents busy perhaps in the evening so that they might be just general hanging out in the streets or on the sidewalk. So can you tell us and speak to us about that please? Sure. So when the women commended the facility for us to screen to command and make sure that we're the appropriate level of the camp and then each one would be given an individual service plan with a clinician. Part of that plan would be the first few weeks and the house they would be in the house pretty much doing groups during the day and in the evening so that we could get a real good look at them and figure out what their needs are. From there what happens is we look to see if okay, is this somebody who needs education, maybe not, they don't have a GED so we want to do a high set test that sort of thing or is this something that we need job training and we run the federal ATI program which is access to recovery. We have a host of programs that put people in for training so that they would be self-sufficient upon discharge or it could be women that had an entertainment that have jobs and they're gonna go back to their jobs. So we take all that into consideration in developing their plan and that's what they would do during the day. In the evening everybody would come back with dinner at five o'clock they'd eat us a community together and then from that point they would all do an in-house meeting and then they would do an out-of-house meeting with they would do AA, N-A-G-A families anonymous, whatever be part of their program. This is similar set up but obviously with different groups you provide gender specific evidence-based practices in this program but it would operate similar to homes on other other programs in Boston, Hamilton, House on Boundary and I got through the Gaviny, East Forest Creek and Child of Staff at the House so it would operate in a similar fashion. Okay so our for example if somebody needed work readiness skills would they go off site for work readiness skills or is that provided in-house? So, so things have, one is we have an employment specialist that works in our all-patient office that would be somebody that they would meet with but again part of our ATI program we contract with MassHire in KBS Jewish Vocational Services for a three week job readiness program and then they could go look for work from that point or they would roll into various drip-to-caning programs from building pathways, the community service to NECAT test kitchen and the YMCA for office practice for example we have a whole whole big fit for computer work and automotive if that's what they were into. So does does, I'm sorry, so if they're in work readiness at JBS does JBS assist with placement or is most placement through you? It's a combination, we try to assist with all the programs that we work with through the ATI program part of the agreement is that they would help our employee participants find employment upon distraction. And how about visiting ours? Is there visiting time with family? So the program is set up so that there's no visitors during the week at all. The only time that there would really be visitation is near the end of the estate, some people might come to help do discharge planning but the women would, if they had family there was appropriate for them to spend time when they would earn weekend passes where they could go home and visit first day passes and then eventually an overnight pass out for the family reintegration toll. It's not like everybody would be by on another facility for visitation. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Olek? Well, I wasn't aware that Mr. Varasso was gonna recuse herself, so I have not seen the plans in advance based on what I'm looking at the screen now they seem okay, but. Okay, any questions from the board? I just, I get a question, I don't know if it's Mr. McGann, Mr. O'Cast. We were in a similar situation over here in East Boston with the old church content building and it was turned into a sober house and not a halfway house program like you were and they just did it, they didn't have to come before. And so if you did a sober house, you wouldn't eat the relief since you wanna do something more intense, more uncomfortable. Screwed nine, that's why you get to the great. Correct, yes. The program would be licensed by the department of public health in a national accreditation through CAF. Yeah, and Joe, I think it has to do with what definition we fall under under the zoning code. This is general group care residents, which is not an allowed use at this location. And what is the zoning district, Mr. Olekast? It's a 3 F D zoning sub district. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Just a quick comment, I'm very aware of the work that the Foundation is done and it's very impressive. Yeah, it is. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. George Wynn with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. He held in a bloodish meeting for the appellant of 2200 George S.A. on July 28th, where community concerns were adequately addressed. The appellant received multiple letters of support, including from the lower mill civic association, the Mayor's Office of Recovery Services, and several elected officials. And as a recovery home would be a tremendous addition for women in rehab, our office would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, I ask anybody who's here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal. Please raise your hands and misunderstanders that can get to you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGecker and City Council of Frank, because office would like to go on record and support and would like to thank this organization for all their great work. Madam Chair, members of the board, I have a question. Madam Chair, members of the board, echoing the sentiments of Council Bake is office, Councillor Larrity, elected and record and support. Thank you. For afternoon, I'm a reassuring member so I'm going to go on a call to the council of the Flint's Office. The council would like to go on record and support the Gavin Foundation plays a critical role in the city of Boston by offering more than a thousand programs to help treat the neighbours and families in fact, by the opioid epidemic, the council released that this project would be available addition to the city of Boston and our efforts to combat the opioid, empty them, substance use, the storage and mental and behavioral health issues. Therefore, the council would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair. Thank you. Oh, go ahead. Sorry, Joe. Madam Chair, Secretary here. We do have letters of opposition. We also have letters of support. And I want to echo the comments of Mr. McGand who does a great job in his team. Okay, Jordan, back to Christopher from Senator Collins Office. He's been unmuted. Hi, I'm on in Jordan, Chris Bennett. I'm Senator Collins Office. And we appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony. We're writing a support through our application, this program, which is a pie credit we needed. Substitutes treatment for 30 women. Senator Collins is a member of the mental health substance abuse, accepted to use the recovery committee. And he understands how important a resource like this is. He also grew up near there, 675 East Forest Street location. And seeing how they have proven themselves and running multiple locations while maintaining successful relationships with the community. We urge the board to vote favorably and expeditiously in support of his application. The office will follow up with the rain testimony. Please reach out, give any questions. Thank you. Thank you. And Smith, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the marketplace? Yes, I'm just a KHS delay. And I'm calling to start at the start. Are we clear? Can you speak up? Yes, I'm calling it to start as a standard of a school administration to school. Okay, can you state your commitment? I guess so. I'm not talking to the department. I propose and I just want to know how to start a new parent to school to the public body, then attract and turn some of our students to school daily and pick up traffic, et cetera. Thank you. All right, in call at 10, you've been unmuted. 617-268. Can you state your name and address for the marketplace? Mother and chair, members of the board, minor pariah service, sent into Clark and Tercee Union. On behalf of the Congress, I'd like to go and support this project. And I want to thank the government for such an amazing job in this services that provides for our communities throughout the city. Thank you. All right, Karen Murphy, you've been unmuted. Hi, thank you. I'm Karen Murphy. I'm a mother of a graduate from the graphic house. I'm a neighbor to the Volumilts site and also candidate for city council. And I'm here to give strong support to the Volumilts and the GABA Foundation in order to educate them. Then no person, the local care organization is, and I know there'll be a wonderful neighbor. They are the one itself lost in and all of their other locations, so I'm here and support the one. Thank you. And, and, uh, F.R. Hey, Karen? Good. You want to join? You hear me? Yes. I'm going to go ahead. OK. I found the jack and sick. Great greets. Well, I want to support it. Like, British is a very exciting part of it. It's actually because it's a woman's program. Many remember a 50 or 60 religious living there. We also had a meeting with the parents. And there was a group of about 10 that were concerned. I think the diocese dealt with that very well. We were on a rich management. I think the diocese is a real time that there's really no sick issues to happen. That's cool. If it was fucking his money, if I can be too, too modest and too. Excuse me? Hello. I'm coming. Thank you, father. Miss and bass, can you meet everybody? Yes. Miss and the bill is. Joe? OK. Yeah. OK, got it. OK. OK. So, uh, Miss, again, a couple of questions. First, are you getting some people from mass and cast from that whole issue that's tearing us apart a little bit? And second, from the letters I've seen, I hope that you will continue your conversations with parents from the school. Well, you have all addressed the process of getting into the women's program would be medical detox, clinical stabilization, before anybody could transition into the recovery hall. We want to make sure that it's the appropriate level of care. And then they can include the appropriate medical attention they need. The goal is, in all its ensuing, the haven, where it's closely with the city, Boston, obviously, recovery services, to help get people into my detox program, which is located in Quincy. And then I stabilization unit. And so we've been doing that all along in partnership with the city. And that's what prompted us to do this is, is so you better available for women. That's why we want to expand the services. But I want to make it clear that this is several steps away from, it's not like they'd be walking in directly off a mass cast into this hall. They would have to go through the other appropriate steps with the proper treatment prior to admission to the program. So I just want to make that clear. The other concern I heard was traffic. Most of these women's all-down care. The only thing I do want to do is that we did receive a number of letters from parents at the school. So I do think that you've done fantastic work. And you continue to do fantastic work as part of the Gavin Foundation. The goal is to try and see how we embrace the residents. I mean, the parents of the school so that they do have a level of comfort in taking care of the needy in our community. OK. So given that, may I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion of approval. Is there a second? So I can just look at the point. Do we need, is there any signage or anything that will involve BPDD, a desire to do on the exterior? No. Not really, Mr. Early. OK. So there's a motion. There's a second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. Good luck. Thank you very much. The only next case, calling POA 118-1513-61, Linturus 3. Just a three-family toilet with real balconies and packing at the rear of the building. The violation of Article 65, Section 42, performed with existing building on 100. Article 65, Section 8, this uses for bid in the 3F-1F cone. Article 65, Section 9, 48, radio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building has excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the radio, hydrogen sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Good afternoon, board. Timothy Fraser, PO Box-Priot, Wilmington, the master's of business address. Also on the line with me is the applicant, Lucien McPherson, well, Joseph Snow, and the architect on the team, Chris Drew. OK, go ahead. They tell us what to be proposed. OK, so this is a proposal for my three-family dwelling on a vacant lot. And I should add, this is not the original proposal after the applicant's extensive community process, it's actually completely redesigned for the grant to the proposal that you see here, resulting in the violations. As a matter of fact, the mobile park association we met with, we can something that they're architect to come up with this design with the Incas appropriate for the community. I'll pass it over to Chris Drew, so he can speak more specifically some of the violations. Joseph, George, I'll let you cheer you up. Unit one is the ground floor level. Is that Chris? Chris, can you put your name and address on the record please? Sorry, Chris, through I have this second of 1156, George S. Ram, George S. Ram. So go ahead. So unit one is the entire ground level level. Unit one, unit, I have this in about 16, under 12, 3, 3, 2, 1. Unit two and three will consist of two bi-level units between the second and some limits based on the third, on the final third floor, each of about 1445 square feet, I think that's three bad. The project will also provide out three off-the-carcass phases. As far as the rear yard violation, it's actually the buildings that we have on the second level, which are both five by 10 for the private outfield base for the unit that actually cause that really out-of-step violation. And so the, I suppose that the building height, basically, it's 35 feet or two and a half stories. Are you going up there on that? So we are at 35 feet. Of course, we are at 50% of the floor below. So that's why we are not building up the entire third floor, you will, but because we are more than 50% it's considered a third story. And tell us about the building alignment. Is it aligned or not? So it's not. So according to the front yard setback, the building itself is at 15 feet, but we do have a front porch that's about 90 feet off the front property line. The building itself is like the building to the right the inside of us is approximately, it's approximately about 21 feet back into the left, it's about 29 feet back. So we're kind of in the middle, if you will, with our setback. And can you talk through the parking? Is it collect today? Who's running? Is that what can you show us the parking plan? There'll be the other one. She will have the... So basically, as she's bringing it up, it is a single driveway, how much meets the back yard with three, he's it's by 20 parking spaces. I know, Jan, there were anything like that. There's three individual parking spaces. There is a buck free between the rare, rare block line in the parking itself, and the back of the building as well. Okay. Ms. Faraza, how are the plans? The plans are adequate. You don't have a stair floor plan of the dorm. Yes. Yep, right there. It's actually not this big right here. Oh, okay. So sorry. I don't feel that I'll wait for that. And then there is some space in the front yard, if you will, on that side. Cross here. Let's get it. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Let's get out of here, Madam Chair, members of the board. George, when with the mayor's office of the neighborhood services, the appellant of 61 Linford completed outreach through an afflutters meeting held on May 13th. In the meeting was the Melville Park Association as a proposal is in a design overly district. Our office would like to go on record in support with the BPDA design review. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have two raised hands. We don't have any. Madam Chair. Sorry, Madam Chair, Secretary here. We do have letters of opposition and one letter assigned to you to the board. Thank you. Any electives? All right. Will that work? Can you have an unmute a case? Your name and address for the record, please? Thank you. Absolutely. My name is Kim Desens. Very well. Yes. Great. I live at 52 Lindhurst Street, so I can see 61 out my window right now. My main concern is for the size of this large building, the amount of the lot that it will take up. There's already been many mature trees taken down in order to build such a large size building. And this is not at all in kind with the 1800s style houses that all of the street has. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I'm Collar on 56. I said it's 7-815-26. You've been unmuted. You're looking to get my name as opposed? Thank you. Thank you. My name is Alicia O'Reilly. I live at 66 Lindhurst Street, so also directly across. I am an opposition of this. I mean, my husband's field of distance is way too large for that lot size. It's over 400 square feet livable. Where all surrounding homes are under 3000s, or a feet livable. We're also field of speed. I would like to say that we're held to speed because we were told it's going to be too family, it's easy. And then the plan ended up being every family. So we just feel as far too large. We're not in opposition of something smaller going there, but it seems to fit large for the faith and comparison of all of your work neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Collar 50. 617-922. You've been unmuted. Yes. I would like to see. I would like to see the direction. My name is Peter Van Zell. I am an affordable living at 65. I am opposed to this project. It is too large for the space. I have two objections. Number one, it's significant significantly reduced. Three amounts of green. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. Three of them. So the amount of green space. And allows only an amount of green, which is not typical of the area and of the building surrounding it. Number two, I have a substantial objection to the actual parking at the grip of the house. that in that parking of a street car, those cars will face my house. In the evening when those cars park or when they drive away, whatever they do, they will be shining light into the window of my house, both in my kitchen and in bed rooms, and will be creating a substantial movement, both in tiny and sleeping. I would like to know to the building of proposed creates a significant barrier between their properties, proposed properties, and our house that will mitigate the both the noise and the light that are going to create a substantial nuisance to us, and we would like to know what they propose to do to mitigate that carbon. Thank you. Gloria, you've been unmuted. My name is Gloria Mittle Brooks. I live at 62 Kinwood Street. I'm a director of butter behind the project. The neighborhood's concern has been the size, as it's been stated before. And while looking at a plot plan, you see... This is the Tarrant Miss Mittle Brook. Are you living in the same house as the previous speaker? No. Okay, go ahead. Go ahead, because he did talk about being directly behind. So go ahead. I think he actually is directly beside. Go ahead. Go ahead, sorry. Okay, so I was going to say our concern again is the size. And the numbers have been stated that it is almost twice the size of the homes that are directly abutting on the side, including ours in the rear. And our concern is the neighborhood, was the look of the property. So a few 10 feet here and a 10 feet there and over this far back from someone else is one thing to say on a plot plan. But when you visually see it, it's another thing. And my opposition is that we were never presented with adequate drawings of what how this property would look next to its director birds. It made an attempt to do it, but in their effort to get neighborhood support, their drawing was quite inadequate and made their property look like it was half the size, which is also a blatant misrepresentation of their information. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Mittle Brook, can I have the next column, Mr. Ambassador? Yeah, probably. You've been unneeded. Can you station me an actress for the marketplace? Lucy and McPherson on the applicant. Okay, so Miss McPherson, can you hold on anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? No, ma'am, I don't see no additional issues. Okay. So I guess you have a problem here, because there's a lot of opposition on this project. So can you explain and talk us through some of the issues that we've heard about, about the size of the dwelling. We understand that this is a single family district. You're proposing what what neighbors see as a large three family. Any thoughts on that? Madam Chair, also if the applicant can't just clarify out of the four direct of butters, how many are opposed to the project? I'll take the butter question. I wasn't exactly clear on everyone's addresses. I just made it clear. Could you just read back which ones are direct of butters? I wasn't exactly clear on that. So we heard from two that are at the rear of the property. And I'm looking at the Google site image. There's one next to it. There's one house to the left, one house to the right. Do they have, do they support the project? The properties are adjacent to the proposal. Do you want to take that? You see an uncommuted? Okay. So let's just take a break and just miss ambassador. If you can mute everybody. The board. Let's see. Let's just go ahead with emotion. Unless people think that it's survivable through a deferral. So let me hear from you. Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. There are seconds. I'll second that all those in favor. Hi. Hi. Opposed. Opposed. Okay. Motion carries. I'll be okay. So we'll see you at a later date. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for calling your next case. Calling the OA101631 to 69 Beale Street. This is a buying parcels 4522 and 4523. The mosque, the existing building erected a new three story 21 unit residential building. Units will all be compact living units. Violations. Article 65 section 41 R.C. back into sufficient article 65. Section 41 R.C. clothing is insufficient. Article 65 section 42 conform to an existing building alignment. Article 65 section 8 views of a multi-family dwelling is the victim. Article 65 section 8 view through accessory parking is the victim. Article 65 section 9, the employee area ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building height number of stories is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 65 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. So, I'll just fill the record. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members, the board, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the Business Address as 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent David Murphy and James Calerher. The owners and developers of the property project architect Kim Johnson also joins us. This is an application for a new 21 unit residential apartment building, submitted informants with the city's compact living pilot program as an artichel lady small project. This was approved by the BRA Board on July 15th. The project site considered two parcels containing approximately 18,284 square feet of land located in 69 BLE Street in Dorchester's Ashemont Pivoty Square, neighborhood. While the zoning is 2F 5000, the building on the site is commercial with the most recent use being a VFW post with nearly 10,000 square feet of paid parking surrounding it. The site fronts newly on Bailey Street, but is approximately 200 feet from Dorchester Avenue, and is located within two minutes walking distance of the Ashemont Red Line Rapid Transit Station. Of the 21 proposed units, there would be two studios, two two bedroom units, and 17 one bedroom units. The size of the studio units would be 417 square feet, the one bedroom units would range from 565 to 622 square feet, and the two bedroom units would be 847 square feet, which means that all of these units, while technically designated compact, are less than 10% smaller than standard metrosize units. All units have either a private balcony, balcony or patio, as well as shared access to over 7,000 square feet of common usable open space. That the tight plane shows within one third of the site is land-state open space. All units also have shared access to shared remote work space as well as shared felt storage, and all units have in-unit washers and dryers. The light of the proximity to Rapid Transit will be age, obstreet parking spaces, as well as room for two car-shared spaces, which could include charging stations for electric vehicles. There is only violation for the parking, which as I say it's a fifth-in-with-the-contact living pilot, as well as for off-street loading. The multi-family use requires a variance. The tighted violation is more... Hold on, Mr. Morancy. I can understand the parking, but what about off-street loading? Why can't I... Why can't that not be accommodated within the property? Manager, it could be. It would reduce the amount of usable open space. The thinking is that for a 21-unit residential building, there could be a parking area that would be, since it's not designated parking, it could be reserved when there is scheduled to be a move-in or a move-out. So again, it could be done either by reducing open space or just since this will be a fully managed rental building. One of the rental spaces could begin to be unoccupiable during move-in to move out. And we need to figure out how that happens because as a board who's been approving a lot of relief from off-street loading, and of course that happens now it happens on-street creating problems for the neighborhood. The other question I have for you is the side yard insufficient seat. I noticed that in your drawings you have an butter on one side, how close are you to that property line? What's required and what are you proposing? On the back. On the back. On the back. Go ahead, George. I'm sorry, is that Tom? No, Tim, go ahead, George. Oh, sorry. The required side yard setback is 10 feet. There's a violation on one side as the chair noted on the left side where at two points an interior stairway and a side bay corners of the building line within six feet of the lot line. But something like 98% of the building observes the required side yard setbacks. It's only at the two page points where there is a stairway corner and interior stairway and where there is a bay window. Okay, and then are any none of these proposals opposed to overhang the sidewalk, right? Everything is maintained on the property. That is correct. The building is well setback. Madam Chair, Madam Chair on that. Point Mr. D'Amico has spoken on this and it just mentioned what you just said. I think 69 BLE Street component should install a buffer-aligned BLE Street to prevent the vehicle of putting daily street from overhanging the sidewalk. Excellent. Thank you. How would the plans, Ms. Baraba? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I forget how many, do you say 10% of the units are a compact living unit, a low metro standards unit? No, Mr. O'Rourke. All of you, and this is the contact living pilot project, but all of the units, all of them are within 10% of actually being standard metro standards units. Okay, within 10%. So, given that. So, they're in the large side of CLP. Well, CLP is small. Why didn't you just go metro because it just sounds like it would be a better living situation for everybody around? But before you answer that question, if you don't, I guess I want to know what you consider given that this CLP program involves a trade-off with common space. Can you describe what that common space is and how many square feet it involves? Yeah, so addressing this, it's a compact living pilot. It started as a 29-unit project because of its proximity to the dual-chester app. Sorry, the Ashland T station, it was spelled that it was per... So, Mr. Marancy, just as I tell every applicant, to me it's a relevant way to start, to ask the baseline as the zoning. So, help us on that. Well, I was beginning to speak about the zoning, which I'd like to do for the record. So, as I mentioned, there's zoning violations of the parking, which again, the parking is consistent with the compact living pilot. Another one of the reasons why this was chosen as they are elected to go CLP route. There's a cited violation for acceptory parking being forbidden, which I believe is erroneous. I couldn't explain why it parking. That's erotic. Yeah. The maximum FAR into the code here is 0.5. The proposed FAR is 0.9. There is a refusal letter that's two high violations for high from grade and number of stories. This is a proposed three-story building while the code allows is two and a half. So, there is a violation there for that pre-story building. The cited violation of high from grade is also an error, however. The maximum pipe limit here is 35 feet while the proposed building height is 30 feet. I talked about the required side yard setback, but there are two points on the left side of the building only where the setback is 60, but it is predominantly 10 feet even on the left side of the building. There's a front yard setback violation cited. The requirement is 15 feet. This building is 12 feet, which is, it's not an actual conformance. We didn't do an existing modal alignment, but it is substantially compliant with the prevailing modal on the street, not necessarily on the side, but on both sides. This is, again, it's a CLP project shared space. The Mr. Erlich asked about unfortunately, on my screen, I still do the operations overview slide from the rooted and Ross Gray presentation. I assume that that's not the case for everybody, otherwise. No, no, it's not the case for us. We're looking at a rent ring, and because that was going to raise the next question for me, was that roof deck and access to the roof deck? But no, we're at the right slide deck. Okay. Tim, Jim Johnson is here, and I interrupted Tim earlier when he was about to speak. Tim, if you want to speak about the shared meeting space and about the roof deck and roof access. Thank you, George. Madam Chair, yes, we have a shared access space, a shared access space, a 677 square feet. It will be outfitted for remote works, cases within there for user via the tenants. We also have 7200 square feet of landscape area, including a badminton court in the rear of the property. The roof deck is only accessible by management for mechanical units, and we have a large solar array proposed for the top of the building. Can you speak to affordability for this project? Yes, as George mentioned, of the 21 units, three will be affordable units. And the IDP rents for the affordable units are currently at $1,082. For the market rate, my clients are anticipating one bedrooms at 1,500, two bedrooms at 2,000 and 2250 for the three bedroom units. Where are, since there are floor plans on the screen, where is that shared space, the internal shared space? The shared space, Mr. O'Rellock, is on the ground floor. As you come into the locked entry area, there is an elevator, and then there is a shared space. So the shared space has is accessible. And as I mentioned, it will be outfitted with the latest technology for remote work spaces. Okay. Madam Chair, members, with respect to Mr. Domingo's comments, I believe he was probably looking at an earlier iteration of the plans. As I mentioned, there is a 12 foot front setback, and there is no parking located in the front, on a forward portion of the building, and it's all in the rear. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to? Madam Chair, just for the reference, Mr. Domingo, that was dated, August 3rd. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is John St. James, and I'm from Austin, I'm with Sarasus, and I'm with Sarasus. I'm like, well, I'm like, support for the proposal. The BPDA along with the urban design team has made changes to the original proposal, to work on the community and the design and process, making it close, rotating the building, to make sure it should be more, to the sweet state, to the sweet state, to the state, and service parking would reduce the overall mapping by taking the floor, off with, with reduced overall, you have number of units, altering the roof line, as well as using the balcony to feel more open and revision to the building's color scheme, and the proposal is applicable. Is to be approved, the mayor's office would add the applicant to continue to work on the revision to the building and continue communication with the community. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have a couple of letters of opposition and a few letters of support. Thank you. I'm Tariya of a couple of ways, Pans. Jeff, are you going to muted? Can you skip your name and address other questions? Yes, my name is Jeff Creeple. My address is 145 Ashmont, my property stretches from Ashmont Street to Bailey, so that the back of my house faces in the corner across from this property. The reason that I am in favor of it is that I am really concerned about affordable housing and some of the developments that have been around the Ashmont station have been very positive for the neighborhood. Also, I know that there was concern about the number of units and about the multi-housing issue, but from actually the place right next to where this lot is, is a mental health facility that has several people in all the way to the Ashmont station along Bailey. All of those units are not single or two family homes, but multi-family homes. And so I don't really see this being something that disrupts, you know, the neighborhood as far as having multi-family dwellings because we have triple doctors. We have one apartment unit that has six units in it that's directly behind me. Thank you, Ms. Creeple. Is there anybody else, Ms. Ambassador? Yes. Joseph Snow. You've been admitted. Can you stage your name and address for the record please? I might be able to send some connectivity issues. I'm Joseph Snow. It's for the last case. Oh, it's for the last LK. Okay, so I think we're all sadly unknown. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review. Sarah, second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I'm going to call the 1230 cases. Now, 1253, I'm going to call the 1230 cases. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1230? 17, 14, 15, and 17. Dorses Street. Thank you, Councillor. For the record calling, BLA 116, 747-0, 13, note in the street. There are two companion cases. BLA 116, 747-315, note in the street. BLA 116, 747-517, note in the street. Name and address for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, attorney Jeff Drego, Adreo and Tuscany, with the business address of 11 B, in the street. We are seeking here to administrative deferral. We were prepared to move forward in the ISD, one of the plans to go to fiery few, if that does not happen yet. Okay, we're going to go down council. May I have a motion please? deferred. Is there a second? Sorry, good. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. A date please? Yes, this October 5th at 1230. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1230? Madam Chair, members of the board, 661-3153. For the record calling BLA-105-318-1661-6161-8, Trumbon Street. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is James Christopher of RCER, CME Business Address of 1156-2, a Chester Ab. Requested for all this time to narrow our mind and we're revising the plans and I mixed up the deadlines and did not refile in time. May I have a motion please? Is there a second? Second, Jean. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. The date please? You have a date of October 19th at 1230. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1230? Hearing none, we'll go back to the next case. Next two cases. Calling BLA-119-0415-713-Ribbit Street. There is a companion case BLA-108-624-717-15-Ribbit Street. This is 713. The subdivision of Basel, the bill A3 Family House 715-Ribbit Street. The violation is Article 69, Section 29, R. S. B. Bockney Loading. Article 69, Section 9, Laudieries and Suffition. Article 69, Section 9, the additional Laudieries and Suffition. And Article 69, Section 9, the side yard is in suffition. This is for a set of 15. This is building a 3 Family House with front and rear decks. The violation is Article 10, Section 1. Limitation of the R. S. B. Bockney area. Article 69, Section 29, R. S. Bockney Loading requirement. Article 69, Section 30, Dash 1. The conformity would have been existing building alignment. Article 69, Section 9, Laudieries and Suffition. Article 69, Section 90, additional Laudieries and Suffition. Article 69, Section 90, the usual open spaces and suffition. Article 69, Section 90, the side yard is in suffition. And Article 69, Section 90, the rear yard is in suffition. Name and address for the record please. I guess I'll have to. What can I hear you? Okay, right now. What? What better? This street speaker. Yes, my name is Necro Pierre. My mother Michelle here, Bill Mott, at 713 River Street. The closing for the three family home on 715 of the street. Overproving is the issue they were out, because I think it is the lost street parking and the lot of areas and things. Okay, so just let's back up for a minute. So your mother looks at 713 River Street. Is that a one or two family dwelling? Two family. It's a two family dwelling and is there any occupancy in the basement? And how does parking work on that lot? On 713 River. It uses the wall they see on the on-ground road. Okay. Okay. And then tell us about 715 River Street. Tell us first of all the types of bedrooms. Is it a one two bedrooms? The square feet of each of those bedrooms? I'm going to. Yes, ma'am. So there's three bedrooms. Don't know the specifics of the bedrooms sizes. Okay. Miss Edwards, can you scroll so we can just see the building in context of the parking, etc. And is this a prefab or will it be done from or not? Stick built. It's stick built. Okay. Miss. Miss Faraza, how are the plans for adequate madam chair? Any questions from the board? Yes, madam chair. I miss it. Demi, could you stoke on this one? Regarding 715 River Street in his opinion of the BTD, there should be no parking allowed on site regarding this case. The area does not have enough room for safe maneuverability and the request involves trying to get out parking. Finally, the curb cut would have to be relocated. Okay, thank you. Is anybody here to speak, either in support of or in opposition of this project? Please raise your hands. Please raise all your hands. Hi, then after noon, madam chair, members of the board, Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I would also like to go on record and support a 713-715 River Street and a butter's meeting was conducted on Tuesday, June 15, 2021. And our office has received no letters or testimony in opposition and we have received one letter and support of this project from Health Leeds, which is a health equity focus nonprofit that has been working in the Boston community for over 20 years. They received funding for the Boston Office of Food Access. In May 2021, this group of high-park and Rosadale community members came together to reduce food and security in these neighborhoods. You have been distributing health and food from the address. Okay, okay. So all we need to do, I mean, if they've been doing that from this address and this is supposed to be a residential address, you know, we may be walking some fine line here. So let's just talk about the construction at 715 River Street and the sub-division. Is anybody here to speak either in support of or in opposition of this proposal? I have a new Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan Frias here from Council of Recorder, Warriors Office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Do you have any other luckeds? If not, I'll go to Helena. We're going to need to can you state your name and address for the record, please? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. My name is Helena Tong. I live at 20 Friendship Road and High Park. I am also the president of Belmau Family Neighborhood Association. And the proposed site development is under the umbrella of I neighborhood. Our Association Army has been aware of the butter's meeting and as well as additional information. And we would like to go on record and support of this proposed development. Thank you. I have no additional raise in Madam Chair. Okay. So given the fact that there are that that Mr. Domingue was reference and recommendation is that they should not be any parking on site because essentially front yard parking. Given that fact, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal of BPDA design review on the massing and to also not include on site parking and to withheld the five-feet yard side yard setback. Is this five five feet side setback on both sides? On both sides. Yes. So the proposed deck right now encroaches two to two foot one. So it's to say nothing should encroach on a five feet side yard setback. Okay. Thank you. Is there a second? I see that you're ready to go. All those in favor? All right. I can oppose motion carries. You're all set for that. Provides a good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling B O A 117 6283 74 G Street. Just to confirm, our position is an existing single family and change to a three family and renovate. Proposed to a third story edition and lodged the existing headhouse and at a roof deck. Violations article 68 sex of 29 roofed factory restriction. article 68 sex of 33 O street backings in sufficient. article 68 section 8 de Florier ratio is excessive. article 68 section 8 de Billham has excessive and fee. article 68 section 8 de front yard insufficient. article 68 section 8 de side yard insufficient. article 68 section 8 de Ray ad insufficient. And article 68 section 8. The additional water area is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Hi. My name is Paulio Bryant. Matt Chair and members of the board. I reside at the Ford G Street where the proposed project is being requested. Okay, so working with David Moraney. Okay, just second you. Please go ahead and describe to us what you're proposing to do and where those two additional units are proposed to be built. I am proposing to go from a one family unit to a three family. The ground level or I should say entrance onto G Street will be a one bedroom unit. This currently approximately six levels in this home. It's been in my home and my family for 80 years. So we're going into the fourth generation. It needs a lot of updating and so I'm taking on this project and hopefully maximizing that space allowed and and I'm going to be able to stay in this community. I've been living here in cell Boston in this neighborhood. Okay, so hold on. So hold on. Who is your architect? Do you have your architect with you? Okay, Devon, can you put your name and address on the record? There are a number of violations here. Can you just walk through them for us? Sure. Devon, Marigra, Marini, Business Adress, one Billings Road, Quincy, Massachusetts, a chewing company. Yes, so go ahead. Please tell us what's for the application night. We, as you know, we need to know what the conversion is, how the conversion occurs and what the size of each dwelling unit will be. Sure. So right now it's a single family in a multi-family zone. So we're looking to change it from a single two or three unit dwelling. When you enter off G Street, the first floor will be one unit that is about one second. I just have to zoom in. I'm going to take your zoom in some more so we can see what the unit size is. Thank you. Unit two, which is on the first level, it is about 600 square feet. It's a one-bedroom unit. And then when you go downstairs, we have a two-level unit that is a bit bigger. The guarding level and then the local level. From the rear, it's exposed, but from the front, it's the guarding level. It's a little bit over 1,100 square feet. It's a two-bedroom one-bathroom unit. And the third unit? So if you come in off G Street, there's a common entry point. The first unit you enter to the left, the lower unit you enter back of the hall, and then the third unit you go up the stairs, which is another two floor unit with a headhouse that we're proposing on the third floor. There is an addition off the back that just covered the footprint of the floor below. And on the roof level, we are proposing extending the headhouse and adding a roof deck up above. The third unit is a little bit over 1,700 square feet. It's five-bedrooms, two-baths. Okay, so let's go to this guard level. Did you tell us what the hardest ceiling height is in the basement and what the floor to sell hide is? Sure. If you go up, it's the green unit. Yeah. So the headhouse is very a bit. It's never lower than 7 foot 6 in the finish space. But there's a, it's kind of a mezzanine level where the kitchen overlooks the living room, which has a ceiling height of about 11. Okay. How would the plans, Ms. Varaza? Better sure the plans are adequate. Board members, I need your help on this because I'm for some reason feeling like this is a very dense proposal with all these units plus that that headhouse. So please help me with the questioning to understand what's being proposed. Yeah, I'm looking at Google Maps and it looks to me like this is a series of attached buildings on G3 that all have the exact same design on the facades and the same roof line. So suddenly adding a whole new headhouse on top seems like it would stick out like a sore thumb. Am I reading this right or wrong? There's an existing headhouse currently. It's we're not moving it up in the front at all or just standing in a queue. Yeah, we just need to know if that headhouse was put in legally or not because you know, we just cannot inadvertently be approving something that, you know, so anyway, go ahead, go ahead, the board members. So yeah, can we go to the headhouse? Can I interject for one moment? This is all the quiet. No, please, the headhouse. Hold on, everybody. So get an understanding on this. How far is that headhouse set back from the taste of the building? Currently, it's about, I think, 16 feet. Set back. Well, just like, when was it built? I'm looking at 2014, move on the map and maybe see hang off on the street. It's nearly impossible to see it from the street, but Holly has more information on that. So when my grandparents bought this home, there was a coupola on the, currently, there was a coupola in the at 68 G Street, which is the exact mirror image. These headhouses or coupulas were accessed to other roofs. So, you know, as being neighborly, we would allow access to other people's roofs because they did not have that. My grandparents could not afford to and just repair. So they kept the headhouse. So there were only two units on this block that had that. And so if you look at Google Maps, you will see there's another coupola at 68 G Street. We call it in that building. So is there going to be any expansion of the headhouse? Is the headhouse just remaining away? No, we're going to expand it about nine-ish feet. But to the back, not to the front. From what purpose? Yeah. To, because we're looking to put a proposed small roof deck over the addition. One of the thirds? No, I, but why expand the headhouse as long as you can access the roof deck from the current one? It's not in great conditions. Yeah, I have no needs to build it. Expanding, not repairing. I, I want to ask, can I, can I ask the board members? Is it worth deferring the case until the applicant and her architect can coordinate and figure out what's going on and help us figure out going up what's going on? Let me just ask the board members. I think it's a good idea to have members. So you're thinking of the committee. I'm sorry. Go ahead. So board members, please, I need you to give me some advice on this. Yeah, so I think that, I mean, it's clear to me what's being proposed. You know, whether it's drawn accurately, it's another question. You know, I think what it helped to really show that at the front, the garden level is actually a little bit carved out at the front, you know, to allow light and air into that garden level. I think the headhouse, you know, doesn't have to be that large. It could be a little bit more modest in terms of scale. So I think that's what's throwing it off, that it looks large. There's a lot of kind of unused space that is being built at the headhouse. But you know, to me, it's very clear what's being proposed. The question I have is, you know, one of the bedroom unit in the proposed basement level, like in terms of, you know, the floor to still height, what is that floor to still height, and then you have a window well, you know, what's the height to grade in terms of egress, you know, the ability for someone to get out of that bedroom. So mine is an issue of safety, and then the other that the board members are asking is one of scale, which is, you know, the headhouse could be smaller. So, so that, Devon, can you please be the one to respond, and first respond to the basement, and then second to the cupola or the headhouse? Sure. The garden level portion of the bottom unit has windows in the rear. If you go down to the A2.1 or 2.2 drawings, you can see all the windows that are full size. That is to hurt that unit. I mean, the buildings are attached on left and right, so the only way there's only about a million windows in front and back, right? So there's windows all along the side of the garden level unit and at the rear. And then on 8.2, there's also a section of that egress window. The silver floor back there is about two feet and then it's less than three feet out of going to grade. Right. And so what you're calling, really there's a garden level, which you have here labeled as level level, and then you have a basement level. Yes. And so to get out of the bedroom and the garden level, you would have, for an emergency, you would have to go to the side window to jump out, which is possible, right? Yeah, there's full size windows in both bath bedrooms. Because it doesn't, but the next adjacent building. There's actually a decent amount of space from the rear of the building to the law line. It's, I mean, is it walk out from the rear or does it break? It's changing. It's walk out in the existing passage way to the street. I miss for us. There is a walk out. There's a, what's proposing was proposing the basement level at the rear. Seems like there's a walk out. There's a door and then there's a egress well in the bedroom at the rear. Yeah, on on cheap A-1.0, there is a plot architectural landscape plan that shows exactly where there's the stairs from the basement, the window well, and the existing passage west. And then in A2.1, you can see that it's actually closer to the grade at the rear. And then you can begin to see the garden level window right above the walk out. And so that's what, that was really my concern, can someone get out from a bedroom and you can. So the answers, yes. And I think the applicant was just confusing garden level versus basement level. Sure. And the the mezzanine level currently on that lower level is already living space. It's just not in great condition. And tell us then speak to Ms. Baraz's comment about the headhouse and scale. So it maybe I think the my client would want maybe a space to put a couch up there or some living area, maybe a nice sitting area. But if it was necessary to make the headhouse a little smaller, I'm sure she would be not be completely opposed to that. I just the headhouse definitely needs to be enlarged a bit. It's not full head height. It's very tight. I've been up at myself and I was crouching the whole time. And it needs to be redone. It's not in great condition. But if the size isn't issue, I'm sure we can do something about that. Yes, we're fine with it. It built meeting building code requirements, but but not fine with it being more space than just access space to that roof deck. Is anyone here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? I'm Adam Sheerman from the board, Ely Dillon Mears, Office of Newwood Services. I'd like to go and record and support this proposal. Thank you. The council would like to go on record and support based on good community process and feedbacks from neighbors and the gate of heaven, neighborhood association. It is also our understanding that only the proponent would have access to that roof deck and we ask that they continue to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase and inequality of life issues. Thank you. I'm trying to have an old raise hand. Okay, so give that information. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PDA design review paying special attention to the size of the headhouse and it's set back in order for it to not be visible from D Street and to also be attention to the materiality of the headhouse. So it works with its context. Sarah second, all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Colleague, the case, Colleague, the case, Colleague, B-O-A-1-2-0-3-9-4-1-903-909, Massachusetts Avenue. There's no construction change from a taxi parking lot to a bus parking lot. Violations of the 50th Secretary of State, 32. Use and regulation bus servicing and storage is a conditional use in an IDA sub-discinct. May I have just a little record please? Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, members of the board, Stephen Miller, McCormick-Wolffian, Miller, 28 State Street. As the Secretary said, we're seeking approval to actually go back to the prior use. This was approved for a taxi dispatch and servicing and storage of taxis in 2018. Prior to that, it was a bus storage dispatch and servicing. And we wanted to go back to that. It's a conditional use. I just introduced Nick Zizola from my office's on. Eric Wagenen, who's the president of We Drive You, who's the tenant and their vice president and assistant general counsel, Tiana McCulley, and her. It's also on with me. This is a conditional use. There's no work to be done. We have gone through the process. We are working with the BTTA and with the BTT on the site and the access and egress to the site. It's been an ongoing process. I think Jeff Hampton can speak to that that we're still working with them. But as I said, We Drive You was a national subdivision of national express. They have the largest fleet of electric vehicles in the country. And they've been in Boston for eight years. They currently service universities, hospitals and corporations. So let me ask you to help your family. Do they run the mask of us? No. No. So do they have any property there or any rentals? There are any presence in Roxbury along Melnia Casse. Along Melnia Casse. This is there. This will be that upside for Boston. And who owns the property? I just could cap it all on to the property. One of the principles is also on the on the on the call. Okay. Okay. Should and how many buses are we anticipating here? We're anticipating 70. But once again, we're working with the BTTA and BTT for the final access and address to the site and the final plan. So that we assume that would be a proviso if the board was to approve this conditional use. And this is buses for rent, right? Rentals? Well, there would be one contract. They're out there. Contract. Everything they have is contract. They're not going out on rentals. This is in and out or whatever they go out for universities as they said hospitals and in corporations. This is not a rental. And tell us how the staff parking is proposed to work? They're planning on busing their staff to the site. From where? From other areas around the city, I guess they'll have a site where people they could pick them up at the that rapid transit or whatever, but they're planning to pass them to the site. Okay. And these are all electric buses. They're not all electric buses, but they are heading in that direction. They have the largest fleet of electric vehicles in the country now, and they're heading in that direction. And can we see the screening and buffering plan and any trees that are proposed? Because this is a very hard area of the city. It could use some screening and buffering input. I hope we've been this under discussion with the DPTA along with the, as I said, the access and egress. So it'd be something that would be we have discussed it with the new market business association. And it's something that I think when we finalize the access and egress with the DPTA, the next step would be the the buffering and the security for the site, the cameras and the lighting, etc. And is this part of the proposed bid plan for internal traffic within the new market bid, or is this entirely separate? No, it's not. You don't look like you know it. All right, so the answer I guess is no. Okay, so how are the plans, Ms. Maraza? Renata, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Members of the board. This is Jason, I'm Anthony and Mayor's Office in the neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support of this proposal. And a butters meeting was held June 23rd, in which they answered any questions of concerns of any of the butters. And on June 2nd, as they had stated, they have met with the new market business association. We will ask you again. Wow, Jesus. You're on record here, Jason. They're saying that there's a letter on file from new markets supporting the market. Yes, if I could see that. Madam Chair, this is Joe McGeck, our city council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. All right, sorry for that issue. Do you want to repeat? Yes, yes, sorry, technology. So I just want to go on record and support of this proposal. The butters meeting was held on June 23rd, in which they answered any questions or concerns of the butting neighbors. And also on June 2nd, they had met with the new market business association, in which they gave their support, only asking that any applicant in the area have 24, seven street facing cameras, which they have agreed to. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, did you get my note going ahead? Go ahead. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Joe McGeck, our city council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I just clarify one thing that Mr. Miller and Ms. Bocavout just goes to direct questions from you, Madam Chair. If you give you one, I'd like to ask you to clarify. Yes, please clarify. Very quickly. So the national, we drive you would not be butting employees, that was one option, but that's not necessarily potentially going to be the case. We're going to, they will highly, highly encourage to use public transit to get to this site. But if they're not able to use public transit, they would be parking on the premises in the place of the actual buses that they are driving. So we have one in one out. And I just wanted to clarify that for the record. Apologies on that. No problem. So, um, Chair Secretary, I just have a quick question. Obviously, this is right down the street from 1010 Massab where we are right now. But I'm looking at the Google Maps right now. And there is screening in buffer and on Massab, but on the size street, it doesn't seem like there is. Yeah, I could take a quick look at it. I was going to, I was going to try and continue to push that needle on screening and buffering because this tends, this still continues to be a heat island. And so, um, you know, the truck just in a heat island can be up to eight degrees warmer than other places. And so, should this pass, you know, we need to have significant screening and buffering, not the what appears to be just a light touch. So, may I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion to approve with BPA design or do that screening and buffering. You can get that with bringing buffering and for that to come back in any two years. Let's show that. Okay, that's a part of the idea. Is there a second? A second motion, Secretary. All those in favor? I. If I might, if I might, Madam Chair, hold on hold on any opposed motion carries. Go ahead, Mr. Miller. I did the taxi before and the busing has never been a two-year limit on this and this would be difficult for them to make their plans with an idea to come back in two years. We assume that we assume that they by then will be running a top-chop notch operation that it would just be a proper stamp on our end because we are seeing that more and more, for example, the bus lot at the intersection of Melnia and Washington. They have just too far too many buses just idling. So, this is a reason for us to just get a double check after that we'll take it from there. So, Mr. Hampton, can you make sure that significant a screening and broad frame because when it's hard, tar like that, it's just hard to keep a space pool. I will. Yep, thank you. Next case, please. I'll be up to the next case, Collin D.O.A. 119-7612-10 North Hampton Street. No proposal construction, Commonwealth Community Care, currently leases a space as office space. They would add a clinic to their approved uses, 10 and occupies this space as well as the building and extort a 30-no-a-tamp-no-street, and then receive the change of use for the clinic in 2015. The violation of Article 56 and 32, the use of clinic is additional. Jim and Address for the Reckon Plane. I'm going to have to press for the quarry, you want Mark, the road, you also have to ask for excuses. I think you hear that as a two-year life. Oh, second, we want to make sure everyone's muted. Like what I'm creating about them, so it's helpful when we talk about it. I just re-write it. Yeah, I'm going to write it. Trying to meet everyone, I'm sorry about that. It's hard to see what it was. Go ahead. Mr. Miller, can you please mute yourself? Unless you're here on behalf of the applicant? I'm trying to be a apologize. No problem. Do you need me to help on that? Mr. Ambassador, are we good? I think we're good. Yeah. Okay. Can I hear from the applicant, please put your name and address on the record? Yes, Chris Corey, one of the owners of 10 Northampton Street, Northampton Building Corporation, 51 Marshall Road, Milton, Massachusetts, 02186. So please tell us what's being proposed? Sure. We're seeking adding its ledicuse, conditional use year to this building's current office use. Commonwealth Community Care, the tenant, has been our tenant year for the last almost six years. They're also our tenant next door at 30 Northampton Street. They're in either additional clinic space due to the expansion of their primary care practice. We have no proposed construction as part of this approval process. We've reached out to the Worcester Square Neighborhood Association and also Sue over at New Market Business Association in regard to this proposed change. And we have received letters of support from them. So tell us what exactly is going to be happening on this site. So, so, normally they've used this space for the last six years as a flat office space. And, you know, in the year 2021, they've been rebranding and expanding their primary care practice. And, you know, due to a lot of their employees, even pre-pandemic working remotely and even, you know, more so now, they would like to be able to use some of this area for, for as part of their primary care practice next door. For instance, you know, having specials come into a larger area where they're able to meet with multiple patients like, you know, podiatry or cardiologists, immunization clinics, things of that, make sure that don't work well in a traditional exam room and waiting room setting. So, they're just trying to get better use out of this, you know, space that they already occupy. And that's a little bit more insight into what they're looking to do here. There was a early misconception of, you know, substance abuse clinic and some concern from the neighborhood about that, but which you'll see in the support letters. And that's definitely not something we're looking to do here under any circumstances. This is going to be really a primary care support space for their practice next door at 30 Northampton Street. Okay. And what would your hours of operation be? They are 9 to 5. Monday to Friday. And tell us about the parking. There's 47 spots on site here. Most of their patients are, you know, hard to come via the ride or other, you know, band services to transport. So, but they do have 47 spaces on site here. And they do have parking next door at 30 Northampton Street. So, definitely no issues with, with our. And you guys also own 30 Northampton, right? That's fantastic. Okay. How would the plans, Ms. Faraza? Sorry, it's Madam Chair that plan to add a quick. Any questions from the board? And I'm assuming Mr. Corey, you did hear about questions about screening on offering just down the street at 903 909. I did just hear about that. Yes. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Kim Kursioli from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The Mayor's Office would like to go on record and support of this proposal under the conditions that it is not used for recovery services. And the butter's meeting was held by our office on June 23rd where there was no opposition from the butter's. They also received letters of support under those same terms from Worcester Square Neighborhood Association and the New Market Business Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have those letters that the mayor's office just spoke of. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Can you have a motion, please? And I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a pro isle that is just for clinic use only. So clinic use only and fencing and design review for fencing and screening at the sidewalk line. What is what is foot clinic use only mean? It's primary care. It's primary care use. Does that answer your question, Miss. Rosaria? Yep. Okay, so it's primary care use and design review for fencing and screening at the sidewalk. Is there a second? Second. Sure. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I don't fade on me, guys. Thank you very much. I also just wanted to make sure that it's a clinic and office so we maintain that office use in addition to the clinic. Yep. And just make sure when I drive by I see that screening and buffering up, okay? Yes. Yeah. Thank you very much. Following the next case, going to LA 11101900123 Teppis Street. This is a change of art included cannabis establishment. The applicant also proposes to modify the existing layout and conditions of the interior of the building. The violation of Article 59 Section 18. Cannabis establishment uses conditional. May the nature of the record please. Hello, Madam Chair members of the board. This is Mike Ross, one international place. I'm here on the call with the head of rises on the hill. I raise means roots in Spanish. And that is Jeff Sanchez. I'm also here with David Lee, our architect. And Rafael Ruiz is our security consultant former deputy superintendent. He had a hospital appointment. He's trying to call in. Now, what we're going to do here, Madam Chair members of the board is. This is a 30,000 square foot lot in mission hell in the local industrial section on terrorist street, which is a street that's seen a lot of activity right now. And the plan is to do a cannabis use, which is allowed by conditional use permit. There are no other buffer issues or any other variances or anything else associated with this. This use would be one of three tenants, if you will, in the building itself. This is a good site just to show you. Well, my screen just went dead, but. We're back. Yeah, so on the left is a former CrossFit fitness studio that's no longer active. At the middle would be the proposed cannabis use. And on the right. It's a existing class flowing studio as it would happen. Called the. So the. The elbows going to stay. Tell is it going to stay? Yeah, yeah, that was a very important condition that the community asked us to. So if the elbows saying what is the square footage then for the cannabis use? Only in a week. CrossFit space and the retail space. No, it would just be in that middle space there. It's about 3000 square feet, Madam Chair. Okay, so it's 3000 square feet. About 2840 is the number I have. Okay. And of course, can you talk us through everything? Particularly concerned about parking because you know Mr. Ross, you've represented the owners next to the old Mississippi's. So you know how terrible that road is for parking. So please talk us through through this. Yeah, absolutely. Currently there isn't any formal parking at the site. What we're proposing is 10 parking spaces to the right of the building. As you can see in this in this and then some of the other drawings below. This is an extreme. The artistry has a very steep hill behind it. So what you're doing is you're cutting into the hill to create parking. So we believe that we can comfortably put 10 parking spaces on the site. You'll know that to the left of the building, there is capacity to maybe come back at a later time and add parking. If we need it, but right now we're committed to 10 parking spaces on the site. We also worked with Mission Hill and the Rousing Services to put money towards a traffic study on this street. And that was a big part of the conversation for short. In addition to the 10 parking spaces, we have a security plan that's been designed by the Buffalo Louise. We met with the police captain of B2 and we committed to with the neighborhood services. Fridays and Saturdays to have a police detail for six months, which community requested and we agreed to. We also agreed to. And so what would be the use of the police detail? Is that for security or for traffic? It's both, but it's probably in the end it's going to wind up being much more around traffic and logistics and keeping people moving in that type of thing. Because we are going to have two security guards. One in the front where before people enter the building at the lower right corner of the building and then one inside. And we will always have at least one or two security guards at all times. The queuing will all take place inside as well. And it's kind of interesting the way we've set up the devil in the last is people coming into the facility will queue alongside. A giant window where they'll see this these artisans who've been on the street for many years. Blowing glass. I know give them something to do while they're waiting. I mean there's not as many lines these days for the cannabis establishments as they used to be when they first open. But even still it's nice to tie the two uses and be able to preserve that use. The hours of operations, Madam Chair, we agreed to reduce them at the request of Mission Hill neighborhood housing services. They will be nine to eight Monday through Saturday and they'll be 11 to six on Sundays. And then maybe my last point I'll pause to see this questions. This is very unique. I haven't seen this. I don't think the board has seen this. The group is agreeing to give 10% of its net profits back to the Mission Hill neighborhood. As I mentioned the word right. I mean, I, you know, whatever your private discussions are we don't need to know about that. We kind of just need to focus entirely on whether this is an appropriate land use. And how to make it work given the narrowness of the street given the volume of traffic given because let's just see the the brewery are the building down the street to this board. And the construction of the supposed to have artists live live walks space happening on that street on the other side of Mississippi's of that slope. There's supposed to be another. I don't know. 60 units there. So we're anticipating a good close to 130, 140 units going up on that street. And of course there's lots of building materials and there's that automotive shop at the corner that you know does some of its business on the street. So you know, it's it's very complicated. So so long story short is we just need to figure out if this is an appropriate land use for this spot. How about the plans, Ms. Barraza? Better chair, the plan is your adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Molly Griffin with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support of this proposal. There was a butters meeting held on March 9, 2020. The applicant has completed community outreach to maintain that communication with the neighborhood. They entered a good neighborhood agreement with mission hell neighborhood services on June 7, 2021. And they've also offered their support. So at this time, we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Hi, Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is Lauren Brody from City Councilor Kenzie Box office. Councilor Box is in support of the applicant. Rhaesos has a strong ownership team that has majority Latinx and are deeply embedded in mission hell specifically and will end local communities of color. The applicant is committed to an open line of communication regarding any issues at the site and has proposed annual community contribution of 10% of net profits to be distributed to local groups and causes. After consultation local community members, the applicant has also committed to help improve the conditions on terrorist street. There are no buffer zone conflicts. MHNHS as attorney Rao said is in support as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, have we have one letter of support? Madam Chair, I do have one raised hand. Terry, you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Yes, I'm Terry Doherrith and I live at 153-155 Cedar Street. So I'm about two blocks from this proposed drug house because that's what we see it as up here. They claim that there was outreach to the community. I didn't hear anything about this and I can see the location from where I live. Now, they're claiming that they want to provide a bribe because that's what it is to the neighborhood. We do not need a drug dealing location here dispensary, whatever you want to hold it. We've spent eons in this neighborhood trying to get rid of that stigma of mission hell rocks very being a drug spot. It being a rundown area. So why are we throwing back a drug place here? This is not the area for it. Plenty of undeveloped commercial areas that this could be this could be placed in, but I'm able to it is not that place for this. I'm sorry to say it, but I'm totally against this. I don't care how many political, you know, pawns you want to throw into the game and say, oh, this, this counselor is in favor of that one. I live here. I see the results of the drugs usage. I had the drug bus right next door to me at 145, 149 Cedar one night. I also had a home invasion because of drug usage drugs sales there. So something like that when it's going to fly up the street to my neighborhood and affect me and those around me, that is a big problem. I don't care what people think the money is. If it's so necessary, put it over in South Bay. There's plenty of areas over there that it can be hosted. Thank you. And David. I know that you have an issue with the rate and function. I look into speaking. Give testimony for this proposal. Yes, Miss Thompson. Okay. Can you stage your name and address for the record, please? Yes, my name is David. He might not the second one 66 Terry Street unit 410 Rocksburg crossing or 2120. Okay, go ahead. I've had up the 10th committee here. I have not found a single resident that is in favor of this project. We have six dispensaries within two miles of this location. And Terry Street has been the target of quite a bit of development has been pointed out already in recent years. At the tiny street, not much more than half a mile long, very narrow, little parking space, no crosswalks, no speed bumps. And we already have a plethora of cars flying through here during rush hours in the morning and the night time. And also we don't have enough parking. Our own owner, Wayne Management, proposes to build a huge parking lot on our lot. So in regards to the dispensary, we don't welcome the additional traffic. We don't have the parking to accommodate it. And tenants, both young and old with children and without our opponents of the project. Thank you. I'm trying to have no additional raise chance. I'm sorry, I'll pocket the one that just came in Matthew. Are you looking to support our position for this proposal? Hi, I can't hear you. I am, but I'm not connected to you. Sorry. Okay, Sarah. Additional raise hands. I'm chair. Matthew St. Owen is the direct butter across the street from us. There are no other direct butters. I believe he was coming on to speak in support. Okay, yes. Yes. And then a couple more questions. When is delivery of product to your site scheduled? That would be early morning. It would be during non peak hours. Every time. There's a separate entrance for the delivery of product. There's a separate entrance here. That would be through the back or the back corner of the facility. And is there any thought of online ordering? We do anticipate about 50% of our customers to utilize online ordering. There's a lot of people who live in mission hell. Who don't have cars, who live behind us, who will be living on terrorist street. And then we'll be walking and that's why we're investing so much money in the desk and round in front of there. One comment that I'm chair on the traffic and on the parking is, as I mentioned, this is a over 30,000 square foot site. And I don't need to tell the members of the board just how many units of housing could go on this. So, no, no, we know that this is zone L.I. So we know that this is zone local industrial and all these residential uses have slowly cracked into this area. You know, so, you know, so let's just take this on face value. Okay. So let's see. Any other questions from the board. We have another call and user. And then I'd like Mr. Sanchez, because I noticed that he is on. To speak if he could. Do you want me to go back to the testimony madam chair? Yes, please. I have two people who are looking at your testimony in a date. You've been on Munich and you stay to name an address for the record, please. Hi. Can you hear us? Hi. Can you hear me? Yeah, go ahead. Can you stay to name an address for the record, please? Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. I'm going to express my. I wanted to express my opposition for this project. I'm going to express my opposition. I'm going to express my opposition. Can you hear me still? Yes. You were coming in and out. Hello. Hi. Thank you. We heard off your opposition. Anybody else? Miss Ambassador? Caller 63. 20129. You've been unmuted. Can you state your name an address for the record, please? Hi. I was connected on two systems. I can disconnect. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else raised their hand? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, members of the board. For all your commitment and everything. I mean, this has been a long day. And you've had a lot of polls before you. And I appreciate the time that you've given to our proposal today. As Mike mentioned, it's called ISIS for a reason. All of us that are involved in this. The majority of the, the majority stakeholders that are part of this. We all have right roots in this. I spent my, my pretty much my entire life. My mother lives on that. So, so, so, so, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Sanchez, I just need to figure out from you. Are you involved with the project? Any other, any other projects? Any other projects? No, this is the only, this is the only project that I'm invested in. That I'm invested in here in Mr. Hill. It's, and I haven't been involved in this project. I'm invested in here in Mr. Hill. It's, and I haven't, we, I did the committee process myself. I collected over 300 letter of expressions of. I'm not, I'm telling you get it. The thing that we need to ensure is that this is a, a street in transition. That it transitions into a better place rather than a worse place. And we just kind of need to hear a little bit about how you're going to help make that happen. So, I myself have been a part of this, this work on Tara Street might pretty much my entire life. And you're right, it was one of these streets that was abandoned. But it, the changes of use as well as the housing has been a part of the city's housing boom. At the same time, this, this street has also provided opportunity for, for changes of uses as well as we see with, with building, building materials co-op, as well as with down the street, there'll be a couple of extra store funds that are, that are coming up in the new developments. And, and the possibilities for that street are really, are really positive. And that's why we committed ourselves to working with the people, with, with other organizations that own, and entities that own properties on that, on that street. So that we can try and deal with what can we do relative to traffic on. It's not perfect, but this street, like so many other streets are facing the same amount of change in growth. You know, we're not that, that tiny place anymore, you know. And so, we're, there's two things that's the commitment that I'm sorry. I don't mean to cut you off, Madam Chair. Yes, thank you. I, um, for, for my fellow board members, this is the second cannabis proposal we have today. I think we've covered all the questions we generally asked. May I have a motion, please? Motion approved with BPA design review. And can we have this as we usually do this, African only, this African only, um, okay. Well, Madam Chair, that's Tom. I do interrupt, but I think, um, and for Barrauz, I might be having some connectivity issues. Okay. No, it's a, a thank you for interrupting, because we want to make sure everybody's voices on the record. Um, so the proposal is for approval with design review, this African only. Um, Jeff, please make sure that this ends up looking pretty, I mean, Jeff Hampton, that as good as it can. It's Miss Barraza on. So Madam Chair, it looks like you might not be. Is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um, is that a, um Are you in the room? Yes. All right, Thank you. Aye. This is 149 rental units, including 25 of the IDP units on various sizes at four artists live work lot units. The violation of Article 51, Section 19, artist mix use, live work unit, as forbidden. Article 51, Section 19, the multi family dwelling use is forbidden. Article 51, Section 20, the floor area ratio is excessive. Article 51, Section 20, the building head is excessive. Article 51, Section 20, use the open spaces and sufficient. Article 51, Section 20, the rear yard setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Is anyone off for that proposal? Didn't have them check in earlier. Yes Madam Chair, it should be attorney and the attorney and lady you are on there. You can't hear it. And lady. I'll see that lady. Yeah, Joseph the top. I'll see you in the attack section. I don't see. He was just there. He was there. Maybe class maybe try to get back on. Madam Chair, this is attorney Zulu. I apologize attorney and lady having technical difficulty feature. He's coming right back on now. I know you've had a long day. You know my holding with him for 30 more seconds. He will be back on. I apologize. I was picked out by accident. So maybe it's randomly kicking people out. What do you guys go? This is Secretary Madam Chair. Sorry about that. Attorney Chiu and lady McTurvey Coltty Miller. How are you? Please go ahead. We're getting a little bit neary. So please go ahead with your presentation. Thank you so much and I apologize for the technical issues. So again, for the record attorney, Joe Hanley 28 state street boss. And I think Nick might have introduced our client. But I will actually says he didn't. So I have David and Veronica and Matt Frazier from Joe Street Vestan. I have a partner who's the proponent. I also have Mark and Cliff from PCA Architects. Just to give you a really quick overview, Madam Chair, this site, which is shown on pages five through seven in this presentation. It's an existing industrial warehouse single story building. About a half an acre in the brain tree street local industrial. L.I.1? Partially. And importantly, also in the get street planning studies. That had been underway and contemplates the type of use that we're proposing. It also is runs directly along the mass pipe. And the tracks of the MBTA in a box tracks that need five, which is a recently approved residential development to the left. And to the right is the development site that runs along the ticket building all the way to the depot. So the project overview very briefly. This is an article that a large project that was approved by the VPDA on May 13, 2021. It's a new mixed use, mixed income helping sustainable development. 149 units on seven stories. 12 of those units are three bedrooms in excess of a thousand square feet or are artists units. 17% of them or are income restricted in excess of the IDP. Of that 50% are three bedrooms and 20% are two bedrooms. So majority of the IDP are family side housing. There's also a portion that is compact living. And Madam Chair, I know you don't want to hear about the process necessarily, but please tell us. So we have 12 three bedrooms at a thousand plus units. How many two bedrooms? So 18. So you looked at page three, Madam Chair. Page three will show you the unit next. So there are four live work units. There are 82 studios, 21 compact one bedroom, 12 standards one bedroom, 18 standard two bedrooms, and 12 standard three bedrooms. So off the 149 units, 103 of them are compact units then. Correct, but a good amount of them are standard size and also three bedroom and two bedroom units. So all of the affordable? No, I think I think I think I'm looking at this chart chart correctly. It talks about compact studios, 82 compact studios, and 21 bedrooms. Correct. Okay. So just so that we know that the majority of the proposal is compact dwelling, a compact unit. And then these logs are looked like they're the equivalent, they straddle between the standard one bedroom and the standard two bedrooms. Okay. And then you have three bedrooms. Okay. So now so now this so that now that we know that these are the bunch of compact units, talk to us about the shared space and what's proposed for the shared space. Yeah, if I may too mean 42 of these are both sides and all of the both sides are larger units. So we worked very hard with both neighborhood groups and city councilor. I'm very aware, just want to say this of this board's concern about compact living. This is a totally different mixing come mix huge work development. The other thing I'll just note the location here. We're not near Boston landing. We're at Boston land in in a industrial area that has been contemplating this type of road through the planning study. So we have we also have if you look on this slide and I think you asked about the amenity space. That's a good point. We are very much aware of creating a family-based mix variety of housing and workspace for artists. And I'd like to add Mark list eclipse excuse me from PCA to tell you a little bit of or about the amenity program. Thanks Joe. That's a new manager member of the board. Mark eclipse with PCA architects. Now if you could go to page 9 please. We're talking about the amenity space even starting to the left just because I know that this has been mentioned. We do have an off-screen building zone for residents on the sort of far left and arcane you can see in the upper upper left side. That's a loading space that's off the street for residents. So then moving over to the right side of the plan that's all amenity space on the ground floor which is next to the four artist live work lots. So along with that really animate that street and they get a really lively streetscape. Going down a little bit we have a large plan so you can see what all the spaces are. And really taking up the artist could live here in the area there is an artist gallery on the first floor not just a lobby because I think a lot of times you end up calling the lobby a gallery. So that is a lobby that is a gallery for artist but there is a separate space you can see right behind the elevators. It is secureable to have artist shows where artists can put their work and leave it and not worry about it walking off but also it's open to the street with glass all the streets so passers by can look into that lobby. Pass that there's a large package space you know that that's all becoming an issue. On site management office and then right in the middle on the opposite side of the elevators there is a flexible space for residents to gather I think it's called conference but it could be a work space constantly coming through this place together and a lot of the fun. Excuse me Miss Edwards can you zoom in some more please? Actually if you scroll down a little bit in that page there is a large plan right there. Exactly. You can see our management office the conference room which could be used by management because we used by all of the residents an open mail where residents put gather and craft their mail before they go off to the elevators and up and then 150 bike spaces just above this. You can go to the next page please. So this shows a second floor general layout of the building it stacks all the way up but in that lower corner right on the second floor there is an amenity space and so we have amenity spaces on the first floor second floor and the seventh floor distributed throughout. Now we're calling this an artist space or a maker space that the artists could use because in their smaller units they use space to make and create their art but this is a big space that can be messy not just the artist could use it but people can use it for crafts or whatever they the other residents want to use is a place where people can gather and have paint nights. We think it's a really great space for to create community for everybody to come together. Thank you very much. So this is our top floor so you can see the dark orange is indoor space the light bright orange is outdoor space so there's an outdoor roof deck with a bit of a view over to the skyline of Boston but within this space we really thought about again how everybody would live and make things very usable for all the residents. So rather than creating one big open space we actually have made it very usable for multiple groups of people to use at the same time so there's smaller spaces where people would have private get-togethers or work there's some more loungy spaces in the middle where again you could have two groups of people come together so a lot of times what happens the space is one person sits out of the couch and they take it over the whole room so it's sort of partitioned off a little bit so you could you could flow sort of between game room in the back to relax and then there's a kitchen space again we're a lot of seating right around that counter so people can gather in the kitchen and that's right off of the roof deck which just gives a lot of that floor space up there so that is our amenity space. Very very much different driven if you will Madam Chair being in an area that is transitioning from industrial we're also dealing with the fact that we're immediately inside toxic conditions from a major highway and major rail lines so obviously it wouldn't be appropriate to have an abundance about door space and that's in result the project is dedicating more than a dollar square foot to invest in one of a couple of parts of the enemy parts only a lot away and that'll make a significant impact in addition to the artist programming this is a node where artists have been in the past and they were injured facilities obviously Washington Austin being named Austin an artist there is a what that is your main program. So Mr. Hanley so you've talked about the parking and of course as on-site loading you've talked about the open space let's just see I can we have to view this street view of this proposal please Miss Edwards. Can we see if this is from the time could have aged 20. Page 19 believe? Yeah page 19 Madam Chair almost there you have it and so what you're seeing there is the widened sidewalk the zoning requires this is an access of the zoning we are exceeding both the side and front yard aspects of the zoning and I think Mark can speak that fact but also making way you know they're for improved connectivity. So that's a narrow sidewalk so can you tell us where the private property begins then? Currently the property line is by a seven feet back from the curb line and we are building a setback another five feet of the total sidewalk will be 12. Okay so that the proposed overhang is on private property then correct. Okay how would the plans Miss Baraza? Madam Chair the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? I have a question for the architect. Did you consider adding additional amenity spaces on floor three four five and six? Let me see the whole process of course we look at everything but we thought that having it at the top and having it at the bottom sort of people redistributed it makes it easier to get to from from the middle and having it a little more concentrated did make some sense just to get a sort of a density of people together. Okay and is the building using carbon-free energy sources? The heating and cooling is completely carbon-free. That's a thank you for that question one of the things that we worked really hard on the folks that you speak about the development and ability where we have solar PV ready on the roof of the something that he requires that it be ready a doubt hope we haven't from day one. We have a electric heat and hot heat and cooling system which is a part of that sustainability program. Technology is not really there yet 100% for hot water but we have a system that is adaptable once it becomes there in order to go from that zero threshold. In addition to the 17% this is a healthy and painful energy energy program. So my only feedback is that I'm looking for what's the overall community benefit for proposing density on the site and given that you're not really doing outdoor spaces for the residents I'm looking for additional kind of breakout spaces. Like I really enjoyed the fitness room in the earlier but it seems like the fitness room as an amenity you know disappeared in order to cater more to the artists you know in terms of amenity but I would just recommend that you think about if you're not offering outdoor space you know what can be a benefit for the residents you know 100 plus that are living in this building. Great thank you. I appreciate your question then maybe what encourage you to look at the overall factor here but we're trying to achieve many masters right we're in an area that needs recovery. The section between Cambridge and Everett's Creek is long distress or a long a pipe. We're introducing a type of housing that is critically necessary and the chair has been designated for that being three and four bedroom homeownership but also the transition for smaller units. I will say too as far as the art lady process and your main to your question over two dollars where foot is being invested as I said a hundred thousand independent far which will make major major impact as well as funding for the all-spin writing mobility study as well as no you know so let's hold on Mr. Handley you know I can you please go back to the artist live workspace and tell us how large those units are because I appreciate that they're not bang up against the the rail yards but how large are those spaces and I appreciate that they're on the first floor so hopefully they can bear additional loads beyond that of the desk and a chair so they could be some creative work going on in there but can you just speak to us about the size of that space? They have already the average 739s working they're actually on two floors that may not be clear that the ground floor I think having it on two floors truly makes it live work that the ground floor can you live but also could be a place where you could do more of a workspace and then there's a separate space above an average of 739 it ranges from 652 up to 880 there's four total. So 652 to 889 okay okay um can you please clarify how many units are actually 397s for a fee because reviewing your plans your studio size you had a lot of them at 397 and very little at 410 I'm not sure the total of that but I would say majority of your studio sizes are 397 and typically 450 is preferable. Yes so those if I may those that's the compact component and this is where it gets a little bit nuanced right this is not a compact all compact development um this we've said 42 units are all size 12 of which are over a thousand where a fee of free better power thing um Mr. Mr. Henry. I'm like Alan. Smaller. Mr. Henry two thirds of the units are compact living so let's not let's be clear about that. Thank you. Our compact. We're trying to address the guy hang on hang on so that means the the whole policy that the city imposed around compact living was in order to have undersized units there had to be a corresponding amount of amenities that would make up for that for community and shared space so you know I just want to be clear about this it's not like you're doing anybody any favors in order to have us uh undersized units you have to have all the space you're not doing any outdoors space for reasons that you elaborated on I'm not sure if I agree but anyway so I think the I think the issue is that there's an awful lot of small units and not an enormous amount of shared space and uh you know that's just not a response um Mr. Early so the obviously we are following um the city you all right wrote the compact pilot we are following and complying with it with respect to the amenities but we are not looking to be confused from that right so so sorry I give you guys a hint you know it might be helpful for you to um know about our concerns about the project that just happened around the corner our Cambridge Street uh about these compact spaces um and then you know my my my my god reaction is that then we have these compact spaces right banks smack against those rail yards I can't imagine what the ton of us going to be and how these this health tree community uh those residents won't be able to actually openly overdose comfortably even living in these tiny spaces overlooking the rail yard you know maybe that worked you know you know a hundred years ago in certain spaces but we've try to acknowledge that you know the health ramifications and the other ramifications need to be addressed and we can't go ahead and continue pushing pushing things that are going to create physical and mental health problems yeah and and I have the opportunity to look at Cambridge Street one thing that I will tell you very different is that is a project that didn't um experience or receive community planning there's so much in that we were asked by the district city council or the pda and mayors office both neighborhood groups enthusiastically support that the i8 support it's because we're doing something totally different and there are 42 families something I don't think I don't think sorry go ahead missan we don't don't so what you need to do is obviously you haven't clearly articulated to us how different it is I mean that's why we continue to portion portion ask you those questions tell us how it's different yeah just add a couple things that by the topic living standards the requirement or common space is about 3500 square feet and we're at 7500 square feet so there's more significantly more than required and just it uh it has been we know that it's been an issue talking about open space but we didn't the reason why we don't have more open space is we didn't feel like this was an appropriate place or open space right on the tracks that the significant contribution to the park would have a bigger impact on open space in a neighborhood okay um any other questions from the board is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal yes madam chair members of the board are connoving with the mayor's office and able to services which will reference the fort's proposal as you heard from the out contract representation it was a very robust EPA led process with input from both civic associations artists and butters this is an area that is transitioning from light industrial to residential as part of a broader plan for community planning the DA is enacting it's also delivering 17% affordable 17% IDP units which is crucial for the neighborhood and we think the compacting living compact living units are applicable in this area you know allston does have a lot of younger renters that come in for a time and this is an opportunity to free up some of the house and stock they went to the Austin Civic Association received their support they also went to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association received their support as well thank you good afternoon this is more a McCrave from counselor breeding's office counselor like to go on record as being in support of this project we appreciate the time that the reporter has taken to work with the community and we appreciate the level of affordability and the inclusion of the artist's work loss on site of the you could also like to just say that counselor does think that the compact living pilot is an important option in our neighborhood as long as is is a balanced appropriately with other housing options so as in the case of this project it is part of the program here it is not all of the program we do think that people do look for smaller units people in our neighborhood and elsewhere and we do think of as important option for people to have and like I said we appreciate that this project has included has also included family sized affordable units and the artist studios thank you more I know that in the past when we talked about these artists live workspace I did want to mention to you that it might have I mean sorry compact living spaces it might not have been called compact living but I would suspect maybe seven to ten years ago this board approved small units both in twerk point and near the JFK stop on the red line so if we want to see in how these small units have worked those might be good areas to check out I did speak to somebody who works in the four point who lives in the four point area her assessment was that most of those units ended up being air B and B and I think those were the very very first small units after the B.S.A started pushing for the small unit those were the very first built just I know you are in the research mode and you know you bring a lot of value in your presentation so I just thought I should share that with you thank you anybody else to speak either in support or in opposition Madam Chair members of the board Annabelle Gohm to the Brighton Nelson Improvement Association and a member of the JFK this project the B.A. would like to go and record and support and the I.A.G. did work closely with the developer one of the concerns was to actually make this green building and they really pushed on making it a green building and the artist space and they did want the smaller spaces so that the artist a single artist could live alone but still be able to have space to work I do share your concerns about too many micro units bring tree streams seems to be a more appropriate space for it they can walk and we are taking an industrial zone that is impacted by a heavy load of traffic going by it so if there is a place it's appropriate this is probably the location and that's why we voted to support it thank you I'm trying to do that with raise hand can you stick your name and address the record please yes good afternoon Madam Chair members of the board Tony Dizadoro representing the Austin Civic Association we would like to go on record in support the membership was very happy to see the proponent be very receptive to concerns regarding unit next affordability and sustainability and as we're stating in the presentation those issues seem to have been addressed we also Madam Chair share your concern about compact living cold living units I would tend to kind of aside a little bit with a more in the in the fact that we have to look at a balanced approach we certainly don't want our community to turn into the primary experimental community when it comes to compact living we're willing to do our share we're willing to have a balanced approach as I said to use of units however I agree with you we certainly don't want to be in a position where they're always coming to Austin Brain to do compact living I'll try to have no additional raise things okay give us that information may I have a motion please I'll make a motion to approve a ppda designer here is there a second I'll second that all those in favor I hope any any opposed I will put my voice in opposition because I do think that this is a wrong balance for building banging out a being built right adjacent to the tracks motion carries thank you next to calling next two cases we're discussing calling the LA 1172719136 West A street there's a companion case BOA 1172724138 West A street this is for 136 West A street build new construction tree family home in a vacant possible land violation atical 68 section 29 roof structure restriction atical 68 section 33 I'll be back in loading atical 68 section 8 floor to air ratio is excessive atical 68 section 8 usable open spaces and pressure atical 68 section 8 side yards insufficient atical 68 section 8 to rear yards insufficient atical 68 section 8 to light areas insufficient atical 68 section 8 the additional light area is insufficient this is a border all right 138 West A street expand the existing single-failing home located 138 West A new rear at 34 finish additions got the renovating existing living spaces the violation atical 68 section 29 roof structure restriction atical 68 section 8 the political area ratio is excessive atical 68 section 8 the side yards insufficient atical 68 section 8 to rear yards insufficient and atical 68 section 8.4 dimensional regulations the extension into the rear yard payment adjust for the record please if is there any representation for this project I don't see they didn't check in earlier I don't see any messages is it on any of the Kyle hold on there's a couple of raised hands christmas are you here for this proposal I am yes actually Kyle's having trouble getting you okay okay Kyle's and I just made them a panelist as well I'm right excellent you'll he'll be speaking on the hat I call the time here you are you able to hear Kyle so so how about we come back to this case and move on to the next Kyle so that gives you a chance without the pressure of us waiting on you to adjust your technical issues okay so let's go on to things for a street go on BLA 117 396 228 hands borrower street this is seeking to direct to seven unit residential dwelling in seven parking spaces the violence of atical 60 section 40 are street parking and loading atical 60 section 8 the multi-family dwelling use of the bit atical 60 section 9 the lot of areas insufficient atical 60 section 9 the additional lot of areas insufficient atical 60 section 9 the floor the area ratio is excessive atical 60 section 9 the bill of head successive in stories atical 60 section 9 the usual office space is insufficient atical 60 section 9 the bill of head successive in feet atical 60 section 9 the front yard is insufficient atical 60 section 9 the side yard the institution atical 60 section 9 the area is insufficient name and address for the rectal please thank you madam chair members of the board Jeff Drego and Drego and Tuscana with an address of 11 B in street with me I have the owner of the developer satsa and Eric sackerson who's the architect from context just a point to note the description has changed as the project has been notified the new proposal is to correct a five-minute residential condominium building with six parking space spaces that'll go along with those units the layout of the plan as you can see what you're looking at it's a vacant parcel now it's 4,000 square feet in the mattapan area the first floor of the project is going to have a one unit that would be a one bedroom one bath proposed 675 square foot that is an accessible unit right at the ground level the first floor will also have partially covered three parking spaces two three covered two partially covered and then one exposed in the rear the as you go up to the second floor unit two and three those would be one two bedroom one bed half that seven to the square feet and then unit three is two bed two bath at 845 square feet and then we go up to the third floor which is our final level that helps us units four and five that's a two bed one bath at seven fifty and a two bed two bath at eight 45 when we modify this project we actually moved violations as well so the violations that were removed were building height and stories originally we were proposing a four-story building we modify that and working with the community down to three we also removed height in feet we were originally at 45 feet or not like 32 35 this puts a lot and we also took off the maneuverability violation we have a 20 foot clearance for all of the parking spots to maneuver out of an attempt to drive way along south Hampton Street the violations that do still stand it is a three F five thousand area proposing five units minimum lock size is five against four additional lotty area just a five hundred per dwelling unit will be required the FAO though it has come down from 1.87 we're at 1.28 just still over the point eight and allowability front yard is motor at 10.15s required our side yard violation we need it on the left side by 10 feet which is what's required our right side is 30 feet two inches which is actually a walking path that goes onto the rear yard rear yard five 30 and feet six inches and open space law on three point four forty nine I can answer any questions so on the right side you're just having a walkway which is three feet two inches how far is that building on that right side to you so that's about it that would be another about five four five feet away madam chair okay so you're pretty close to the property line there okay um turn three on the left side okay and can miss out what can you show us the the the street do you please how are the plans miss forosa then do you have the plans are adequate any questions from the board so so then so the blue building has to propose building that's correct is there is there a roof deck no roof deck I see no roof deck okay um any questions from the board is anybody here to speak and either in support are in opposition of this proposal we don't have to know madam chair members of the board don't take people's services may as often in their services um we were like to want to write a support proposal on the less completed extensive community process beginning on um October 29th 2020 ended July 19th 2021 on two these meetings the run by the man is often the board services they have and that made changes to their proposal um with recommendations from the community to include boards of three stories um seven to five units and increase in caution with parking ratio um the office made by a service it looks going to write with the board again so this proposal um which is an opportunity for a home ownership we would ask that that we can continue to address the concerns of the community which include parking to the entity in a lack of a group of units thank you madam chair members of the board just to guard our lab sitting on some of the camp of office we'd like to go unrecorded opposition the uh local civic group uh harder google circle along with uh some direct butters our opposition is project mostly due to density I'm trying to have no raise hands yeah given that information may i have a motion please motion to approve the BPDDA design review backing child all those in favor i like i need a pose better pose better pose okay uh i'm opposed to but motion carries thank you for my support madam chair what would you like to do go back to west eight um Kyle is everything good with you it's ambassador it's everything working for Kyle Smith and he was on early we just make sure he should be with them himself so let's go to um the last case um the support or second to last case well calling case bla 115 1073 365 western ab this is the raised the existing one-story building erect a new six-story 60 of 57 units building with a total of five stackers equals 10 pounds and 25 spaces two handicap violations article 29 section four green belt protection overlay district article 51 section 16 mf bar use this conditional article 51 section 17 excessive farr article 51 section 17 excessive height article 51 section 17 in sufficient area i'd set back article 51 section 56 in sufficient park article 51 section 56 access maneuvering area and article 51 section 57.2 front yard set that requirement game and address for the replicates good afternoon madam chair members of the board mark lecasse lecasse last 75 Arlington street in Boston attorney for the applicant and also with me on the call as the project proponents principal uh Joe Hassel so this project is familiar to you um it was approved by the bpda in august of 2020 and we appeared before this board last October since that time we have gone back out to the community back to the aca and the bai and address the issues of concern of this board which were the number of studio units um so with that revision a number of things have happened with the programming of the building the building envelope itself remains the same but the unit mix has been substantially changed um do you want me to just focus on the new unit mix or compare it to what it was uh do compare it since this is a partial date of who okay so madam chair the prior proposal was 30 studio units so 50% of the then 60 proposed 25 one bedrooms and 10 two bedrooms the new proposal is much different um the new proposal takes into account the notion that a lot of people will be doing work from home so we've combined some of the spaces there are 14 one bedroom units 13 one bedroom plus den's last home office 10 two bedroom units two two bedroom plus den and four three bedroom units leaving us a balance of 14 studios which was only 24% of the entire proposal and the unit count has gone from six to fifty seven as a result of that reprogramming in terms of the unit sizes the studios are 450 square feet the one bedrooms are 625 to 730 the two bedrooms are 850 to 990 and the three bedrooms are 1050 to 1129 um there are 10 IDP units that are being set aside um which comprises 17.5% of the total number of units that is the original IDP commitment and the proponent has agreed to maintain that thereby increasing the minimum required IDP from 13 to 17.5 a couple other things that changed there was on our prior zoning code refusal letter uh a situation for insufficient loading so we've configured the garage to include a loading area so that violation has been removed from the refusal letter um all of the other basic elements of the building remain the same there's a side green area on the right side of the building if you will that is adjacent to the pocket park at the telephored condominiums right next door so that space still integrates very well with the pocket park in the rear stop at the side perfect um there's the pocket park and the side of our building a little further back you can see there's trees and that's to integrate with the pocket park there was an area behind the building adjacent to the telephored condominiums that we worked closely with that building to make sure there wasn't just a blank space kind of hangout area so that's been eliminated at the at the garage level the setback is only six inches to the rear of the telephored line but then from the second floor up the setback is 27 feet pulled away from the telephored so that integrates nicely with how their rear yard is arranged as well um I can go through the zoning issues that are on the revised refusal letter which is dated August 3rd that it is we have being built protection overlay applicability for design review because it is within the distance of the soldiers field road greenbelt in the community commercial sub district the multi-family residential uses conditional so we need to conditionally use permit for that in terms of the dimensional regulations excess FAR the minimum for the CC is 1.0 this is a 3.3 proposed the height max is 35 this is 67 proposed which is consistent with the trials we're building across the street uh the rear yard setback I have already just addressed um insufficient parking the code requires two per dwelling unit if there are 10 and more units with the introduction of the staker option to add 10 parking spaces bringing us to 37 total the parking ratio is 0.65 which is consistent with the western Ave corridor study that is currently underway the front yard setback the minimum required in the sub-dister code is seven feet um what's proposed here is 12 feet so we actually exceed the minimum required front setback which is part of the request of the BPDA given the western Ave corridor study seeks to have much wider sidewalks in western Ave so our building is setback 12 feet from our lot line then plus the sidewalk so it allows for a rather large sidewalk here um so the citation of the refusal letter is that thereby our building doesn't conform to the existing building alignment but if we were to do that we'd be pulling the building right up to the edge of the of the sidewalk and but contrary to the current planning principles I can't tell you have a roof deck up there yes madam chair there's a common roof deck and that is the reason that we don't have a usable open space violation the adjacent building has a deck as well and that's you know one of the key features to satisfy the usable open space requirement is the common roof deck with two means of access yes show them there yeah mark what they 3.3 FAR are there any sustainability goals that the buildings achieving because obviously you're using a roof deck can't put any PVs um we do have solar panels that are going um there's one of the slides that shows solar panels next to the roof deck allowing the roof edge if you can scroll to one of those slides and Joe are there any other items uh yes we'll be playing we have solar panels as Mark mentioned and then we'll be planning to use energy fishy energy efficient appliances and um sustainable materials and um uh you know the latest insulation and things of that intro and it's heating electric a gas not 100% venture on not yet but it uh most likely will be gas and a combination in hydronic system which is um where the nabby and boilers um populate the um the air handlers as well so it's a really efficient system that um allows us to have some extent that's from mass saves as well due to the energy efficiency of it okay um and will there be any retail space on the bottom there is no retail space it's a lobby entrance and the garage at the front of the building okay okay um miss baraza plans are good and plans to add to it any questions from the board is anybody able to speak either in support or in opposition yes madam chair members of the board conor new with the mayor's office neighborhood services like to go and recommend support this proposal um after meeting with the the board the first time around they went back to the community and worked through a number of issues that with the Austin Symphony Association Association received their support that with the bright and also an improvement association received their support as well we love that they continue their commitment to the increased IDP um well about 13% of the city requires thank you afternoon this is more of a praise on council of reasons office council would like to go and recognize me support is this project the also the councilor appreciates the the improvements that have been made to the project since the project was at the board last time and we also appreciate the affordability included in the project thank you I tried to have two raised hands on a good Annabelle that was at the Annabelle yeah manager Annabelle Holmes in the bright and also improvement association like to go on record and support uh welcome the changes that we made from the previous proposal which we did not approve and we're very happy with the changes the IDP um like gone record support thank you and Tony good I'm muted good afternoon madam chair members of the board chony jizadoro representing the Austin Civic Association we'd like to go on record and support and echo the comments made by previous speakers we're very pleased with the availability of the proponent to listen and to respond to the concerns of the community in this board and we're very pleased with the changes that were made so we'd like to go on record and support no additional raise yes okay given that information may have a motion please madam chair I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with bpda design review and also to commend the applicant for the diversity of the unit and affordability and the changes turn the series second all those in favor hi any opposed motion carries thank you kindly thank you guys appreciate it madam chair what's your pleasure is mr smith available Kyle smith is the available president madam chair oh excellent okay so let's go ahead with your project thank you madam chair and apologize if it's difficult is it on my computer my mic and my system crash so apologize okay hold on one second because mr. fortune needs to read it into the record certainly or we refer to it so it's it's a long thing to say so you yeah i'm not going to go through the violations again though understood no long day calling b o a 1 1 7 2 7 1 9 1 36 with s a street that's in any case b o a 1 1 7 2 7 2 4 1 38 s a street amenad just to the record please um madam chair members of the board my name is Kyle smith kds law business address of 359 newbury street Boston up back bay and let me look like me to proceed down chair yeah go ahead please tell us what you're proposing to do certainly so madam chair if you recall we were before you approximately two months ago we have two sister projects one is situated on one thirty six plus eight street the other one is on one from thirty eight west eight street there is presently in and that plan right there is the best to view what we're going to be discussing there is currently a single family home on one thirty eight west eight street that is them encroaching on to one thirty six west eight street so there's a bump out there if you see also the lot line does not run perpendicular to west eight and it runs off the diagonal which then causes the entirety of the structure not just the bump out to be encroaching from one thirty eight on to one thirty six west eight so we had two prospective projects sister projects from three six which is a three story building the proposal for one thirty eight west eight street is a expansion of and rent rehabilitation of the existing single family house to remove the encroaching bump out my clients were able to put under agreement and start seeking to close on the adjacent parcel located one thirty four west eight street arguably next week for which they have sought to change their plans currently for the proposed project for one thirty six but we now have essentially one thirty eight which has been kind of caught in the mix and for which you asked for a deferral from last year into today's year so we've been able to communicate with ISD they've been relating getting back to us we have not been able to buy for Tade the plans for the subdivision but in essence what we need to continue to pursue seeking and we're acting for your decision on today is the mean for which to then vibrate the project we are ultimately looking to carve off a twenty six foot square square foot triangular sliver from one thirty six west eight street and to add that to the square footage for one thirty eight west eight street to remove the encroachment from the current single family structure as a result of the adding on a that square footage so we need to proceed with the subdivision of the land and then arguably by for Kate one thirty six separately from one thirty eight and to proceed with the proposed project for one thirty eight west eight street so we have a miss miss miss miss is this where is what is the right drawing to be looking at to see where this triangular pieces as in context of both one thirty six and one thirty eight so madam chair apologies I also have the architect on the lines of Chris if you know the exact slide to refer to. That'd be helpful. Is Chris phoned in or is he on? I'm here yet. If we look at the land survey which should be on the second page of the drawing set, you will see that the property line that divides 136 and 138 does not run. Yes, there you go. You can see that it runs at a slight angle to west eighth street. So what we're proposing to do is basically run the property line between 136 and 138 per particular to west eighth street so that it runs parallel to the exterior wall of the single family renovation. Okay, so okay, okay, so let's then go through the, so your proposal is still continuing to propose the subdivision and then you're proposing on the single family to add a rear at third floor. So can you speak? Talk that through? Yes, I can't manage here. So the proposal is to add on a rear addition of approximately 13 by 13 square feet to add on an additional floor on the top floor. We're proposing to have approximately 23,000 or sorry, 2390 square feet of a little bit of space. An FAR of 2.54 seeking to have four beds and two and a half baths and that would be the composition or composition of the expanded and renovated single family structure on 138 west eighth street. Is there a roof deck proposed and is there any occupancy in the basement? No occupancy in the basement, Madam Chair. The proposal for the A roof deck is off of the addition to the rear which would only be two floors in height. There would be a roof deck on the top of that structure would not be on the top of the highest point of the ultimate building. The main structure being three stories high, the proposed rear addition is two with a roof deck on the top of that second story. So it's kind of tucked behind the building from the face of west eighth street on the top of the new addition. Okay, so let's go to 136. Madam Chair, to confirm this is the proposal that we are firmly seeking to defer on the basis that we are looking to aggregate the square footage with 134 west eighth street and have a new proposed project which we are working on something to ISD once we firmly close on that parcel which should occur at or about next week. Okay, so you just need a motion of 138. Do you want to close off 136 so you can just start from scratch with 134? Well, Madam Chair, when we close on the proposal approximately next week, we're looking to have an informal non mandatory meeting with the butters to test, you know, kind of get a gauges to their perspective of this proposed project. Okay, we have issues there. We do currently have a ZBA of, you know, ready plan for 136 for which we would ideally not like to cancel at this point. We will affirmatively do that once we make the termination use of plans for 136 to ISD or which we will arguably do probably early to mid of September. Okay, so I would like to ask Ms. Maraza on 138. Madam Chair, they're adequate. I do have a question for the applicant in terms of the division of the law. For parcel one is basically a 941 square feet lot and then parcel two is 1339 and according to zoning, the minimum lot is 2,000 square feet. Is that right? Is that correct? Yes, 2,000 square feet and then 1,000 for an additional unit, but we're proposing a single family unit. So yes, 2,000 square feet. Right, so for each lot, if you were to subdivide it, you're now you're sure of the minimum lot requirement. If you were to build a single family house for each parcel. We are sure for either parcel regardless. Unless you combine them, then you then it's adequate for just one single family house, correct? If the parcels were aggregated, then yes, you could have this thing. Yes, yes. And I guess only to clarify what we do have legally, we have two separate parcels. The parcels have been under common ownership and effectively used as a single parcel by the family that sold the parcels then to my client. And there's a single family house currently on 138 that is then encroaching Monday, 136. We are trying to ameliorate that encroachment and then also be able to expand both vertically and to the rear of the existing single family structure. Okay, thanks for the clarification. Thank you. Any other questions? Jean, did you have a question? No. No. Any other questions from the board on 138? So may I have a motion on 138? This motion is to approve the subdivision. And the addition? Uh, sorry, we have very hard problem with testing on some of the facilities. Oh, yes, forgive me. Yes. There's no need for you to hear to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connerning with the mayors of State with Services, I apologize, I'm not familiar with the proposal, so I'm trying to follow along as best I can. The mayors of this in support of the proposal for 138 less A Street and would like to see deferral for 136 less A Street, which I believe is what the applicant is asking for. Thank you. Confirm. We're only looking to have a motion on 138 A Street. And this is just for the single family. It's for the division and the single family. Oh, that's it. We are anticipating and it would include a weaver and a floor addition and a small deck. And then we're anticipating the follow on 136 less A Street. Thank you for the clarification. The councilor would like to go on recording support of the subdivision and the expansion of the single family located at 138 less A Street based on good faith compromise while working with the mayors of the City of San Maricopa, Association earlier this year one of these are one of the conversations that happened between the Mayropa, Association and the proponent was paid roof decks and the issues with the roof deck in the area. It was of our understanding that it wouldn't be a roof deck, including on these plans and that's why I brought the question about the roof deck. We support the project for the expansion and the subdivision. We do not support the roof deck, so that it would be a less association. So that's why ours. So, for is based on we all know that. Thank you. I think I have no words. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion of 138? I like to put forward a motion for approval with the PDA design review for 138. Okay, is there a second? All those in Traver? Any opposed? Motion carries. Now 136 plus eighth Street, the applicant is requesting a deferral on that. May I have a motion, please? Motion? Is there a second? All those in Traver? Any opposed? The date, please. The October 19th at 1230. Okay, Mr. Rume and staff, can you make sure that both projects 134 and 136 come together on that day? Okay, thank you. Motion carries the block. A Madam Chair just to clarify, with 134 we are potentially months before being able to present. If we do perceive they join project, we will withdraw that from ISD and I will presently you know that we formally withdraw at the drawn. Thank you. All right, and Madam Chair, were you in vote of this as well? You have a final tally for the count? Everybody's in support. Okay, thank you, Madam Chair. All those in? All those in? carries. Yeah, sorry, go ahead. On the last case of the day, reconsideration. Case VOA 103 8178 30 to 36 Battery Mountain Street. This was the change the office from commercial space and 26 residential space and 26 executive suite. Violations article 45, 614 uses condition. May I have just for the record, please? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Jeff Drego. Drego and Tiscato, the business address of 11 Beacon Street here on behalf of my client, Sonder. We are seeking a reconsideration hearing from the board based on the board's decision back in March 30th, 2021. We are looking first for a cloud. We believe there were four that were stated by the board. And we checked the video, but then there were two additional providers added for the actual decision. The providers that we believe the board added to the decision with one damn standoff on site at all times. Two to post their instructions on how to contact management at the building for 24 hour issues. Three, file a report with the board one year on the number of people per room and range of occupancies and then four relief grants to this applicant only. When we got the actual decision that was signed, there were two more providers, no more than two occupants per unit and six minimum stay of four day fired. So we were looking for clarification if in fact those providers were supposed to be added. And if they were, we would hope to be afforded an opportunity to discuss with the board the potential of a modification of those last two providers. Due to the fact these are two bedroom units for the most part, 17 of them and 70% of our occupants are business and hospital staff. That would be a great detriment to my client. Thank you. So my recollection of this is that all six of these providers were the providers that we were we cared about and that was responsive to the concerns of the neighborhood. And so I think the question is you are asking us to reconsider this case. And may I? Madam Chair, I thought there was a question on the occup- the stay I remember the occupancy. I remember it's going back and forth on it and I thought we talked about how that is difficult to enforce. And I thought we weren't doing the occupancy one. That was the point of a walkbook was to see if they were being overcrowded. But I remember two person occupancy one. I don't remember that. And I remember the four days. As but let's just see. And I think you sat on this. I remember the four days too. You were the you were the one who was in opposition to this. So because I for some reason I remember all six but I will rely on your your younger memory to help me on this. I do remember the four days. I don't remember the two occupants that that seems to me to restrictive and hard to to really enforce if that was a conversation. But I would say not the two occupants but the four days was definitely put forward as a provisile. Okay. May I ask the rest of the board members? Yes, Madam Secretary, I do remember Mr. Ligris who's not on ABC had made those motions and I do remember the two as well. I I too remember those and believe that the provisodes are there are are a reflection of the board. Okay. So the request to us is for a reconsideration of what be heard and of our provisodes. May I have a motion whether we reconsider this or not? I would make a motion to deny the request for reading. Is there a second all those in favor? I. I. Any opposed? Your your post motion carries we will not reconsider this case. Thank you. Thank you. On that note we will convene. I know it's been a long day for everybody so let's talk next week. Enjoy the rest of what's left of today. Okay. Bye. You