 Thank you. Good afternoon. The City of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for July 26th is back in session. As mentioned before, this hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2023. In the interest of time, I ask that every person here who is talking through their discussions to tell us why they would defer the last time. And as is usual, if you are here representing an applicant, we expect that your goal is to talk through the violations, the mayor's office of neighborhood services and the elected officials will talk to us about community process. Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. Following the next case, we're redisession calling the LA-1310-423-202-Western Street. This construction of a modified from a five to a four-story research building with parking, combining a four-lot 14152-square feet. The violation of the 68, section 29, the roof structure restriction, article 68, section 33, Austrian parking, article 68, section 34, graphic visibility across the corner a lot, article 68, section 14, excessive FAR, article 68, section 14, excessive height, article 68, section 14, front yard setback, article 68, section 31, screening and offering, article 68, section 34, special provisions for corner lots, two front yards, an article 68, section 33, Austrian parking and loading is insufficient. I may have an address for the record please. Good afternoon. Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, I'm on board Attorney Cho Hanley, Chairman Colton Miller, 28th State Street in Boston. We were deferred from the last hearing due to a quorum, the lack of a quorum, and now obviously we are looking forward to proceeding. Okay, please, Mr. Hanley, just reminded me of something. Yes, ma'am. We are a six-member board today, and for approval, you need five members in support. Yes, applicants can request an administrative deferral. Should they so desire? Right. Thank you. We'd like to proceed to Madam Chair. Okay. Excellent. Just, I'm going to take you quickly through the presentation, introduce you first of the development team. With me is Mike Delafet from Rody Architects, the project architect for this proposal, also with me, or the owner of developer, Larry Grossman and Jason Weissman. If you go back to the previous page, the site, 202 Westburg Street is at the corner of C and Farstreet on the north side, which is the industrial side. It is in the local industrial zoning sub-district, which was amended just only seven years ago, and it allows the proposed laboratory research life science uses that are being proposed. And it is a corner lot. Next slide, we'll show you the photos. This is the former AMRAMP manufacturing site. You'll see the blue building. That is the property that is being replaced. And you will also notice that the sidewalks are quite tight, and there's a lot of best-in-chief sort of old industrial in that particular corner. Across the street from us is the residential section. Along this section, there are no residences on the north side, and the VCEC is in the foreground to the north. Next slide, please. So what we have done and what we're proposing is to construct a four-story commercial office building with office uses and also laboratory research and development in a boutique setting. It is just a little over 42,000 square feet. What you're seeing here is very important with respect to the relief that is needed. We have set the building back at the corner, which you'll see. And we are introducing new widened sidewalks, tree canopies with widened adequate wide grates that will allow for the proper growth, and to move the loading and parking further further away from the neighborhood to the north of C-Stream. Next slide, please. And you'll see those 24 parking spaces that were in there. One of the things we spoke with the neighbors and worked hard with the BPDAY on was enclosing and screening the mechanicals. So all of our rooftop mechanicals, this is only a four-story building, was proposed to be a five. We are utilizing the fourth level to enclose, it's almost like a fifth level enclosure, to enclose the mechanicals and screen them so that they're not visible. Next slide, please. And that just shows you a little more, some of the equipment in more context. We were approved by the BPDAY and your small project review in April. And as part of that, we had a robust discussion about where the mechanicals want to be so that they are furthest from the neighborhood, but also limited in height. I'll note here for the height variance. The building is 60 feet base-soning in height. The mechanicals are no higher than 14 and that is consistent with the input and the work that this board has provided on other projects in the area including the MRI, MRI site, which was limited to that as well. Next slide, please. Just to show you this, and further context, again, you see we are using a masonry brick for the first three levels and the fourth level. On the top, you will see the screened mechanical looks as if it's a fifth level and operates to mitigate any of the visibility and sound referring to that. Next slide, please. Councillor, can you move to directly to the use of this and the R and D use? Yeah. So if you go down to the, it should be slide 12. These are just showing you some of the renderings, Madam Chair, but to answer your question. So we have agreed, here you are. And I know you'll hear from the elected officials, but since you asked about the use, we're very fortunate to be, I think, a positive precedent for a new R and D building in South Austin and the industrial. We've agreed to nothing more than biosafety level two. That is in the article 80 board memo. That is something that I, on behalf of my client, have worked with the subcommittee of the neighborhood group on. We've also. Okay, so all of these negotiations with the community well and good, but can you please go on to tell us about the operations so we can get a better understanding of it? Yes, so four main levels on the- Tell us what slide we need, please. Yes, just to take you back to the slide eight. And this is a cross-section, Madam Chair, Madam Investor, Madam Chair. So if you see in the first level, you asked about the operations, the parking 24 parking spaces. We still do need relief for that. It is there's upwards to maybe 60 or 70 spaces depending on how you do the calculation for office versus lab that would be required strictly under the zoning code. We are providing 24 in a garage space that also has loading, adequate loading, and is accessible off C Street, which is the northern back of the site furthest from the neighbors. As you go into the first level, you'll see that there's tenant storage and then a space which is lobby and call it tenant space. It's really multipurpose. It could be used for meetings or could be used for community purposes. And then you're talking about really just three levels of office. So what we're told is that boutique environment like this, this square footage, that a majority of the space is commercial office and then the other portion is so it's not all research space, correct? But you have this in the three levels and then as you go up to the fifth level, the zoning stops at that 60 feet which will seat in the canicle. And what we've done in working with the DPVA and the neighbors is to essentially create a level that is fully enclosed so that they're not seeing or hearing the mechanicals. And that's how the building would operate, Adam, Chair. I got it. So to understand what are you expecting the split between office and research to be? Are you an open question or do you have a tenant in mind? Yes, we do not have a tenant at this point and that's why we look at slide 12. We work so closely with the neighbors on the conditions for both its design but also its future operation and use, right? So regardless of who the tenant is, we're not doing more than biosafety level two. We're also required to maintain window screening on all the upper levels, sound attenduating measures and to participate in continued discussions. We also did a biosafety code and a building code report early on the design and shared that with the neighbors as well. So the breakdown that I'm chair and I think Larry Grossman who is my client is on. Larry could you provide the chair with sort of a customary breakdown of the percentage of square footage for our vice office? Yeah, the design that we've developed so far assumes a 60-40 split meaning 60% could be lab space, 40% office, no more than 60%, but more than likely the percentage of lab would be less than 60%. Okay, and so this would be just research as no manufacturing proposed. We did that use, there is a wide use that is prototype manufacturing. That could be robotics also considered research as well as laboratory life sciences so that we have that flexibility. The truth of matter is with this small building that's why we're able to agree to such a low research level is there's only so much you can do in that space and still be able to have the mechanical space to operate. Yeah, I mean it's mostly the biological component that I was asking about. Okay. Yeah, I mean so to give you a perspective Larry said 60-40 of our gross square feet, 25,000 square feet that would break down to for research uses so it's very highly likely from the tenant condition from folks we talked to that this would be low level research. Larry, you can probably speak more to that what the market is. Well, I mean that we don't know, we don't know what the market will be exactly. We're trying to provide flexibility in the design and the mechanicals that we showed you was to support 60% lab. That's 60% is really just for the three floors, doesn't really include the first floor. So that's if you do the math and the floor plays around 12,000 gross and you're talking around 24,000, 20,000 square feet of laboratory potential laboratory space that could fit so if basically a floor and a half of the entire building. Yeah, and the bioseculeble two limitations wouldn't allow for you know you're talking about animal research and things like that you know you're typically at a higher level of the SL-3 and that's what we're going to do. The other thing I would say, Madam Chair, is I know that this board has seen a few projects and we worked really close with the neighbors and the elected officials. I do think you know we're on the north side of First Street just seven years ago in 2015 the city amended article 68 to continue to allow the industrial on the side. And there's a reason you know the neighborhood on the side it is all industrial and we're really looking to make this kind of 21st century if you will but also do it in a responsible way with respect to the scale and the operation and that's kind of the balance that we've tried to strike here. So that use is allowed under you know Article 68. I know you've had a few proposals before you in the neighborhood where use variants were necessitated that's not the case here. Right so hold on Councilor how are the plans for better? Better chair the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? The afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board, many of you is the Annaway with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. To O2 West First Street was a BPDA project they held a robust community process. The same fits in Laura and neighborhood association was in support at this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Madam Chair Secretary we do have a couple of letters to support. Madam Central request on New York Union new station name and address for the work of this. Hi Amanda Keith. Okay well we're waiting on you all go to Andres. Can you say to your name and address for the work that please? My name is Andrew Dilba. I'm the chief educational officer of St Peter Academy at 371 West First Street. I was fourth street and we are in support of the project. Collar, Mrs. Long, seven, overhead. My Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvin on the absolute Council at Live and Legal Plarity. As you know, Article 68 went through an extensive community process. Councilor Coach Lads went consistent. That said this project has gone through an extensive process to help form the product scale and size. It is consistent with nearby redevelopment and small one. The component work closely with neighbors associations and other elected officials on the number of key areas including the roof, the movement of mechanicals and proper noise attenuation measures for this type of use. Women's and biosepile levels to rebate the neighbors concerns as well as efforts to address numerous public realm concerns in that area such as walkability and accessibility on the site has a stance and its current state. Thank you. Thank you. Vanessa Wu. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Councilor Plent's office here. Councilor President Plent would like to go on record and support based on a thorough community process and the team working closely on good food compromises with neighbors and the civic group quality of life concerns. These compromises include the site will not exceed level one or level two use. A height, placement and enclosure of the mechanical system. Like 24 vehicles, light pollution and improving the blood strength of the students. Councilor President Plent supports stem from risk work for the neighbors and he requests that the team continue to work closely with a community and civic group during the construction phase on any quality of life issues and concerns. Thank you. Miner. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Dr. Carpenter-Sunion. On behalf of Hondras and while we're Boston Bracelet, we're going to record this. Thank you. And Colors 617-590. New years. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you very much, members of the board. My name is Philip Albony. I'm the managing general partner of Christopher Associates. We own the site at 270 West Second Street and we're just a few blocks east of the subject property. We've owned our site since 1953 so we have clearly generated the genealogy of the neighborhood. And the MRA site is in the plans that they have for it is something that we fully support. I think this is certainly the right time to be building the infrastructure for new employment opportunities in Boston. Thank you. I also appreciate it. Thank you, Madam Chair. And so we are happy to offer our full support to this project as a very nearby property owner. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have more additional raise. So give that information. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to before a motion of approval with the PDA designer review, paying special attention to the materials on the fourth and fifth floor mechanical screening. Thank you. Is there any previous gracious? Okay. I have a fortune. Aye. Alec? Aye. Don? Aye. Regiro? Aye. Better? Aye. I have a motion. Aye. A round, yes, all, so the motion for approval with design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Following an ex-case, call the DOA 125294521 main street. This is a former residential property being converted to an outdoor educational use accessory parking. Part of the adjacent campus of the Boston Collegiate Chattisville. Violation Medical 9 Section 1 extension of the 1940U. Medical 65 Section 1 R Street parking. Medical 65 Section 1 R Street parking. Parking space sizes. Medical 65 Section 8. Accessory outdoor educational faces conditional. Medical 65 Section 8 accessory parking to the main youth school. Name an address for the record. afternoon, lounge air and members of the board. I'm attorney Bob Listero from Goodwin Proctor with the business address at 100 Northern Avenue. I'm here along with Joe Nott on behalf of the applicant Boston Collegiate Chattisville. The project was previously scheduled to appear at the board's meeting on June 21st and was deferred because the meeting of the McCormick Civic Association membership to discuss the project was taking place that same evening. The campus of the charter school is located at 11 main youth street and in the last couple of years the school acquired the adjacent property at 21 main youth street where the school would like to construct an outdoor educational space and accessory parking for the main campus. As was noted, educational use and the associated accessory parking use are conditional uses in the applicant pool zoning district and the school's requesting authorization to change the use of the 21 main youth street parcel from residential to these conditional uses. I just have a couple of questions. Okay? Sure. Is separate log or is it proposed to be combined with 11 main youth? It is combined with 11 main youth street parcel. Okay. And it's under common ownership at the moment. It's under common ownership but it will be combined so that's good. The second thing is I notice the violations of parking. So what I need to understand is is there any parking already provided for the school and how this is helping meet the need? So there are the main part of the campus on 11 main youth street there are approximately definitely there are 17 parking spaces there now at the school received a variance which the 17 spaces is less than what would be required at the school previously received a variance to authorize that. So these additional spaces would not bring it into full conformity but it would reduce the non conformity. And how many spaces are these? There are 19 total one of which would be a handicap accessible parking space. Okay. And this is not proposed to be used for drop off pickup but for staff parking or risk of parent visitor parking and things like that, right? That's correct. And are you proposing to lease any of these to the neighborhood or anything? No. Okay. So that includes the parking space. Can you talk about the outdoor educational school use? Madam Chair, before you go to that Madam Chair, the secretary here I know Mr. Domingo's not on but Mr. Domingo's spoken this on a little confused maybe the opponent can clarify. Regarding this is from Bob Domingo, VTD regarding 21 Mayhew. He said the plans are very poor and he needs the dimensions of the spaces. Spaces were hand drawn. A little maybe to get to see this or there was something he saw that we were not saying. Okay. Okay. Okay. We'll take care of that. Yeah. The phase that we're at now, they're preparing construction documents of the design is almost complete on it. You can have highly detailed documents on it. Okay. So let me just make sure that for the record you presented that these are standard parking spaces that meet all the city requirements for the size of the space and the the turns that they need to make. They need the turns that you need to make. But we are asking for a variance on the size of the parking. Parking work closing is 18 feet by 8 feet on all the spaces which we need the variance because it's 50% of them need to be broader than that. They need to be 8 and a half feet by 20 feet. And there's no way for you to accommodate some of that any any any in any place. What we were trying to do is well there's two aspects to it. One is to limit the curb cut that goes to the street. We don't want to take away any of the street parking is theirs. We are entrance to the parking lot is 24 feet so we don't take away a parking spot from the neighborhood. And that allows the turn radius to come in so that you can at the other aspect we're trying to do is have that parking lot be two way traffic so that you're not causing any congestion on Mayhew Street as if it was one way traffic and you extended the parking spaces then you could have it on a backup issue on Mayhew Street. That was one of the crime concerns raised by the neighbors that were trying to avoid that. So we want cars to be able to pull in and back up without causing any interference to the street. Okay, so let's talk about that output that outdoor educational space. Yes, so there's three areas proposed. So the the lots size of 21 Mayhew lot size is just about one third of an acre. And what we're asking here is to split it. One third would be of that area would be for the parking lot and two thirds of that would be for outdoor space. And that's in that outdoor space that two thirds of the project size would be split into three areas. One is a plaza for congregation or small plaza for congregation and outdoor education. And the rear of the property is an outdoor classroom space which would be used for such activities as art classes and like reading and writing classes, small group classes in that area. And then there's an open screens, green space which is on leads closer to Mayhew Street which is not viewed as a program area. It's viewed as somewhere where people can eat lunch in small groups or just congregate with small groups and allow sort of the student population to spread out. Okay, and if I'm looking at the drawing that's up there right now, what is that cut on the adjacent properties, that your property? The curve cut on the adjacent property. Yeah. So the white of it is a neighbor's property. Okay. Okay. How would the plants miss better? I bet I'm chair. The plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? I mean, I just have a comment in regards to a variance on the percentage of the parking spaces that they're right now in design as compact. Have you considered providing like EV charging stations or some of those spaces being for a car sharing? We are doing an EV charging station in the location. You can see it. I guess the graph doesn't that great but it's right where the handicap spaces. All right, those little dots. Great. Is he too? Yeah. Yes. Okay. Okay. Anything else? Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor, New England, the Mayor's Office of the Avalid Services, the Sun Mayor's Office, like to defer a judgment to the board. Back information in the community process are office hosts in the butters, meaning on April 20th. Residents expressed general concerns regarding noise level and traffic on the street, which Boston collegiate, promised mitigate. The McCormick Civic Association has written a letter of support and at this time our office to first the board. Thank you. Get afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGatchord, City Councilor Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go and record in support. Madam Chair, second area, we do have a letter of 10,000 Mayors off to spoke up. Thank you. You have a raised hand here, but Barbara, Barbara, that's a request on YouTube. You can use station name and I'll just go to the work to please. Do you have any requests for me? Yes. Did anyone use her still? So I have no additional raised hands. Hi, I'm Barbara Donna, we're 46. Thank you. I'm not the director of the letter that I have on the block. Can you hear me? Yeah. It's called Han. Oh, sorry about that. Barbara, Donna, 46, made you. I'm a neighbor. I'm an affirmative. They're really wonderful neighbors would like for them to have more parking so they don't take you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional raised hands. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Straight approval over design review. Straight approval. Do we need any review given a law of the meekest concerns about the parking? Could you be, we could do BTT design review, but I'm in full support of promoting EV charging stations over larger parking spaces. Okay. So with BTT review, is there a second? Sorry. Fortune. Oleg. Hi. Go ahead. I got it. I'm a regime. All right. Better. Hi. A row jail also in support. So motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm going to raise the case. On the next case, calling the LA 126164755, the Ministry, this increased living space and had extension for egress of purchase of the rail. Violation Article 55, section 41.1, conforming with an existing building line. Article 55, section 9, the fluidier ratio is excessive. Article 55, section 9, the side yards, and sufficient. And Article 55, section 9, the rail yard. Yes, it's great. I'm Chair and members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancy with the business address of 168 H Street, unit 1, Salt Boston. With me today is the owner of the slash developer, Pia Joas, and the architect Andrea Brue from Remake Design. Again, this is a proposal to renovate an existing vacant, dilipitated, two-failing by maintenance and the existing footprint of the building. As you may recall during our hearing, we went through a full entire hearing and we were recommended to deferral through two board members, Mr. Erlich and Mr. Robinson. One portion of it was to continue dialogue with the neighbors and the other one was to revisit the actual basement plan. Since then, we have met with the neighbors and have not reached any sort of common ground, one of the biggest factors with the neighbors was regarding a certificate of liability, which they have since received. In Part 2, one of the other issues that we actually did resolve was we removed the entire basement living space and there will be no underpinning at all whatsoever so that it's as it is in storage. Mr. Spitz, you know, you've been living in the space for a bit, but we've had a couple of cases since the last part of this. So is the intention still to maintain it as a two family? Correct, yes it is. It's going to be maintained. And do we have the most recent plans without basement occupancy? Yes, you do. Okay, so then tell us what the size of each unit will be. Yep, so the first floor unit one will consist of just the first, will be approximately 829 square feet, which will be a two bedroom containing a living room, kitchen in a dining room. It will have two bathrooms as well. The second floor and the third floor will be consisting of unit number two will be approximately 1,641 square feet. That also will be, well, we'll have a kitchen, dining room, living room in a den area along with a three bedroom there. That unit two will also, if you notice, that will have a roof deck of approximately 459 square feet and that will be the exclusive use for unit two and that will be accessed by a hatch. Okay, and then what's the zoning district and what's the lot size of this unit? So there's a zoning, well, again, the zoning district is a three F, 4,000 zoning sub districts. And here the actual lot size, which is pre-existing, is 1,738 square feet. And again, this proposal, we're maintaining the existing footprint of the actual building itself. Okay, so this is an existing building that you want to rehab, you want to save, continue saving as a two family. You're not increasing the living space, but. By through an addition. So as a right now, if a pitch roof will be swearing off the roof itself, and it's also compliant under the height. So we were not cited for any sort of height vary. It's odd. And so what's the square foot of the addition? So the total, well, I mean, the total square footage, over there with me. So the total square foot of the addition, maybe. So Andrea bruised with me. Andrea, can you be specific as to just the addition on the third floor of what the total square footage was? I have the height of what's being proposed. I mean, the square footage of unit two, total, 1641 square feet, I do know that. Maybe Andrea could give me the specifics as to the square footage from the addition. I'm not sure if Andrea was elevated as a panelist. It's about half of that 1641. Is that what you're trying to do? Well, existing, it was a two and a half stories existing. And then with that addition, we'll let it go. It's about a foot. OK. And how is parking being accommodated? We never had any sort of parking along this property, and there's just no way of feasibly providing parking here. How are the plans, Ms. Better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, I mean, just to comment, the concern was about a living space in the basement. And if that issue has been removed, then it's a different proposal. Yeah. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman, from Airsoft's, Neighborhood Services. This proposal has gone through an extensive community process. The applicant underwent, went to the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Committee, Zoning Subcommittee, and received their support. They received opposition from the Stony Brook Neighborhood Association, and our offices received six letters of opposition on file from Director Butters. At this time, our office differs to the board. And is that, you've been without occupancy in the basement, Connor? That's what we have today, yes. OK. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have those letters and they have office spoke up. Thank you. Thank you. It's my hand, too, opposed. OK. I'll hold on. So anybody else, Mr. Ambassador? Any other elected officials on? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, the City Council, loud and like a flurry. The Council, like to offer support for the project, Council acknowledges that there is both support and opposition. He'd like to note that the proponents made genius to plan to address the butters concerned by moving the basement unit. It's currently seeking relief for four preexisting violations. If approved, the Council is going to want close to address an equality of life issues, they exist currently, very each and every phase of construction. Thank you. All right. John, did that paper come? I am here to oppose since the office for the record, please. I am a resident of 13 Meant Street, kind of a butter of 15 Meant Street. I'm here to oppose as many obligations and responsibilities have been met, such as maintaining the property and unless neighbors consistently reach out and prompt them to maintain the property and for a citation as was given about a week or two weeks ago, the property is neglected. And in addition, the developers haven't been working with the neighborhood association. With us, we get answers at the last minute right before a board meeting. And it just, we don't feel like the developer is listening to the community. Thank you. Thank you, now go to Jennifer. I said there are questions on you. Can you state your name and address for the work? Hi, my name is Jennifer Ergine. I live at 47 Ross Moore Road, which is just a block away from this project. I just want to make a clarification. The neighbors and also the neighborhood association, the concern was not just with the basement living space. There were other concerns as well. The FAR is still excessive. It's double what is allowed, even with the reduction of the living space and the basement. It is only a 1700 square foot lot and the existing house is on the property line. So it is extremely close to the next door, 13-me-in. The other concerns aside from the FAR was that even though he is still under the limit for height, he is raising the height by 3.7 feet plus making a flat roof, plus setting a roof deck. So all of that means that the house becomes much larger in volume on this tiny lot and also cash shadows most of the year on the front of 13-me-in. He is also, though he claims there is an existing front yard violation, he is bringing the entry, vestibule and the stairs close to the street that it currently is, which means there actually is a smaller front yard setback than exists. And it also means that again, the front entries will also cash shadows on next door and it also creates less of an opportunity for any kind of green space in the front. Neighbors also want to tend to redesign the building to make it fit in better with the historical context of the street. Street not done that at all. And it is declined to present anything different to the neighborhood association and is in fact really only communicating with the Beabutters next door. So there is a whole lot just beyond the basement living space and you have a bunch of post letters and I haven't heard anyone support except for the firety's office and they haven't even attended any of the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Please, anybody else who is talking, please give us new information. Oh my God. Madam Chair, members of the board, overhek 35-14 Washington Street. I am a director butter to the rear of this property. I am in full support of this project. I think it is a great addition to the neighborhood. I think this developer went above and beyond. Any requirements to meet with the neighbors, multiple and rigorous community process. As has been mentioned, the project looks great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes. Good morning, go ahead. Hi. Thank you. Good. May the 65 green street. We own the property at 69 Williams Diagonally Across. Again, I want to support this project. It is an eye-sour currently. These are all existing non-conforming variances. They are not even adding an additional unit. I just feel like the neighborhood is not being reasonable or rational. They remove the basement space as requested to ignore this as if it is not thing. It is just unfair. I encourage the committee to support. Thank you. I have no additional questions. Mr. Hampton, did the BPD have a recommendation? Thank you Madam Chair. I recommend that you have approval with design reviews as long as they remove the basement space. Okay. Given all that information, may I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review. Is there a second? I will second that with a comment that there still seems like a lot of work would be done with the neighbors and the brothers. It seems like there really needs to be a good neighbor policy but in place. Mr. Fortune. Hi. Mr. Oleg. Hi. Ms. Dahlm. Hi. Mr. Regiro. Hi. Ms. Better. Hi. Mr. Rouges also in support. So motion carries. Approval with design review. Thank you. Following the next case, calling the LA 133 305 120 DL State. This is a renovation of existing single family residents and you don't have the added the rare along the new habitable area at the third floor and basement. The red zone will create a three story two and a half story zone. The front porch will be also rebuilt by a LA 6.6769. The side gout is sufficient. Article 6769. Building height is excessive and deep in storage. Article 6769. The front yard. The name and address for the record. Hello. My name is Tim Shan. I'm the architect for the project. I'm at nine Wall Street in Charlestown. I'm representing my client, a developer, Michael Davis. We're here today because they put us on the committee last time but obviously it wasn't on our occupied. So here we are. The three violations of side yard is a left yard side yard now that's only six feet. It's supposed to be ten. The dormers going to be inside of that the dormer will be at eight feet so we have a side yard setback because of the dormer. Our front yard setback in this one F6000 zone is 20 feet and we're rebuilding the existing porch so that's our front yard setback. And then currently the building is two and a half stories with a slope roof. We intend to put a master bedroom suite up on that third floor and to do that we need a dormer so it turns into a three story structure. So those are our violations. Okay. So basement occupancy is just for a playroom. How many bedrooms in here? Three total. Just two on the second floor and a master. Okay. Okay. How are the plans? Miss better. I don't share the clincher adequate. Any questions from the board? And the dormer is on the right side, Mr. Sheen, right? Well, the back. It'll be on the back, right? Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm Mr. Chairman. I'm Mr. Chairman. I'm Mr. Lichy. We hosted a meeting for this May 2nd. No one was in attendance for the meeting but they did reach out to. They did reach out to their. Post-sus-nabred association. My office has received five letters of support and one direct call and support of this project. And we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have those letters of support that the Mayors Office vote. No. Madam Chair, I have no other. May I have a motion? Sorry, I'm Jeff. What did the BPDA recommend? I'm sorry, Madam Chair. We didn't receive plans for this. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Do we need design review? With BPA design review on paying the attention to the height of the roof, red, genital, dormer. Yep. Okay. So there is a second. Okay. So let's just see. Quartion. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Donk. Aye. Regiro. Aye. Better. Aye. Arraja's also in support. So the motion for approval with design review carries the luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling the LA127-3426-1472 census street. Disappropose due to a three family to a four family and a partial renovation of the violation. Article 9, Section 1, extension of the non-conforming youth. Article 67, Section 30, 32, Office 3, parking. Article 67, Section 8, youths, the bed, the four F and the two F's zone. Article 67, Section 8.2, basement unit, type of bed. Article 67, Section 9, the Laudieries and sufficient. Article 67, Section 9, the Player Reached Youth, excessive. Article 67, Section 9, youthful face is insufficient. They may not adjust for the record. As you have to turn on for this case, I'm still can you raise it in? Go back to the other of the next one. Calling the next case. Calling the LA13404480, 81 to 87. And want Avenue. This is a change of opportunity in restaurant and increase the occupant load to 152, include outdoor seating and live in payment. The violation of the Article 69, Section 8 uses the bed, Article 69, Section 9, the Ray-Od. It's an insufficient name and address for the record please. Pasha Hall, 81, 87, Vermont Avenue, High Park. Tell us what's being proposed. We opened a new restaurant a little over a month ago and when we first did our place that was assembly, permanent inspection, there was more seating. We purchased all the restaurant seating and the restaurant from the old owner of the restaurant that we were talking about. We were told that the previous owner had gotten approved by the board for a live entertainment and the outdoor patio but never actually went down to zoning to get his actual certificate. So the furniture that's in there adds up to 152. Okay, let's back up for a minute. Okay. What's the name of the new restaurant? It's Park 54 Restaurant and lounge. Okay. Park 54. Tell us about how many outdoor seating spaces you're proposing. So there was already 20 outdoor seating out there and that is what we are proposing. 20 outdoor and the balance you're proposing 132 indoors. Correct. Okay. Tell us about the live entertainment. What is it anticipated to be? Life bands on Saturdays and Sundays per brunch. So this is basically a daytime not evening spot. The restaurant is open from 4 to 11 on Tuesday and Wednesday. 4 to 12 on Thursday and Friday and Saturday. We're open until 1 a.m. We have a 1 30 a.m. liquor license. Okay. So you're going to have live bands. Is the space? Is it secure so that there's no sound that carries out? Yes. Okay. Like I said, the previous owner had the same setup. We need to ask this because now the responsibility lies with you and we are kind of starting from scratch. So tell us how many parking spaces you provide? Parking, you said? Yeah. Yeah. We do not provide parking spaces. Does no parking on site? No. Okay. And what signage do you have? Or where? Do you have any contact up yet? Yes. We've been open for over a month now. Okay. Okay. How have the plans been better? Madam Chair, the plans are okay. They don't have necessarily an occupancy layout of the plan. So I would say that the plan is not to review the requested occupancy load. But I'm just going to give that to ISD. Yeah. So, you know, I would say the plans are incomplete. So I see that you're only showing the plot plan. The ISD asked me to submit a new plot plan because the previous owner did not have one. So I'm not going to show in, but I also have the architectural plans for the inside of the restaurant that was updated as well. We lowered the seating capacity on the second floor and we just added standing room to the box at the first door. Yeah. I just have a note from the staff that this is the only thing that they have. So in the future, or should you decide to expand, we will need things kind of from soup to nuts. So we didn't, so we did not expand anything. We did not do any changes at all. So tell me, is this building handicapped accessible? Yes, it is. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Our office held a community meeting for part 54 back in October. And several of others in community members are in attendance. Voice, they're supporting interest for this restaurant. And they received various letters of support from community leaders, civic association and neighborhood stakeholders. Since the opening and even prior to the opening, the applicants have connected and been actively involved with high park mainstream, high park board of trades. And when Sasha mentioned, there was a grand opening for part 54 about a month ago back in June. And several elected officials, community members, not only from our neighborhood of high park, but from all over Boston came to support highlighting the need for more black owned businesses in our community. And how the diversity and how much diversity it will bring to the district and how this restaurant brings more culture to the area. I'll give it all that. Got it. Has this got to the licensing board? Yes, it went through the licensing board. Because things are a little bit backwards because then the occupancy permits should have been allowed if this board, this board hadn't reviewed, reviewed the plans, etc. I just want to make sure that people are not under the impression that the board is just there for our good looks. But there is some real good value and important value to getting this approval from this board. I only want to hear from a butters. So if there are any of the butters on this call, please. I want to hear from you. Everybody else, please. Lower your hand about it. Raise your hand. Elected officials who are about us raise your hand. Well, I'm here. I'll speak. I'm with Julie. I'm a large speaker, not a director, but I'm also a resident. I park and I'm here to speak in support of part 54 in the proposal. Thank you. That's new Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jordan, Freya, Syris, speaking in support of this honor. I could for council of Ricardo Royal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, through the council live, Michael Clarity, council of the Oregon support. Madam Chair, I'm no different. Miss Dr. Lazima. Yes, I am a neighbor of high part of any support of part 54. What's your name and address on the record, please? Chief, was on 30 days in street, high part, pass. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that a stamped occupancy plan be submitted to the board for our records. Okay. And this applicant only, and do we need the sign review? No, we don't. No. You're sure? No. Wait. No. I'm positive. Okay. No. It feels like. Yeah, it feels like the court is before the horse on this one, but I do want to make sure that everything is a copacetic. Okay. So we have a motion. We have. Do we have a second? Thank you. Fortune. I. Ellen. I. I. Regiro. I. Better. I. I said I'm looking forward to being a member of the board. What are? Also in support. It's been approved with those two provisers to this applicant only, and the stamp occupancy plan be submitted a ass the to the boy. So good luck. The last case, please, Mr. Fortune. Yes, is anybody on the 1472 centers street? Maybe somebody from out-of-choose company or Jay Hush? I can see it. There's a raised hand here. One is a collar. Collar, are you here? For this proposal? The collar is 645. Here. Hello. Hello, madam. Hello. Can we have the applicant for 1772, Centric. I'm a little better. Okay, thank you. We just need the applicant on. Since the applicant is not on, may I have a motion? Make a motion with an eye on what our credit is. Is there a second? Perfect. Fortune? Aye. Oleg? Aye. Yang? Aye. Rijiro? Aye. Better. Aye. A round just also in support, so it's been denied the doctor's prejudice. The meeting is now adjourned. We'll see everybody in a couple of weeks. Enjoy August. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye.