 you you unknown who Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. The City of Boston Board of Appeals hearing from May 23rd. 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public. I think you skipped the section. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access the hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, www.boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation material is when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The other comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people who are following on to offer a comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. It's a lot yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called the con to comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call upon you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Okay, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Shepard. Good morning, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Celetia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Canado. Good morning, Madam Chair. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Eakin. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. And good morning, Mr. Celetia. The first oil business is for the approval of the hearing minutes from April 6th and April 11th of this year. May I have a motion? Doug Wolfe? May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Canado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Next order of business of 9.30 a.m. is for extensions. And at this point, the first on the list is case BOA 1192263. The address being 335 Chelsea Street. Or this. Also the first request for the extension was to do this. Is to expire on August 20th of this year. If granted, the next, the new expiration date will be August 20th of 2024. Ms. Schultino? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Ms. LeBorder, Attorney Lawrence, Coutino with the business address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. I'm here seeking an extension for 335 Chelsea Street, a one-year. This board in 2021 granted approval to the RAC2FOR unit residential dwelling. With COVID, there was just a couple of snags, but we do anticipate applying for permits within the next year. And as such, we're just seeking a one-year extension through August of 2024. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in Nunmay, I have a motion. I'll motion to grant the extension to August 20th, 2024. Thank you, Madam. A second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Conato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-1159113. The address being 693 Cummins Highway. This is the first request for extension to expire on August 6th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be August 6th of 2024. Is the applicant or the representative? Yes. Freedom Woodward Architect, 9 Elizabeth Street, a matter of pan. And this project is also for family to be owner-occupied, construction documents, or complete, but we are unable to have a permanent issue without a licensed builder and are having difficulty finding one. So we thought requesting the extension would be appropriated this time. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here and none may have a motion. A motion to extend one year to August 6th, 2024. May I have a second? Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B-O-A-1156565. The address being 79 Corp. Street. This is the first request for an extension. The decision is due to expire on June 2nd of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be June 2nd of 2024. Is the applicant or their representative present? Yes. Mr. Dostalla. There is a raised hand here. What's the case? Cortina, is that a U-Lick? I sent her a question. Are you here for this case? I don't succeed on. I don't know if this person is on. I sent the request and read them. Okay. Okay. Shall we move on and circle back? You will do that. Let's do that. Next, we have two companion cases. First being case B-O-A-1175767. The address being 16 to 22 Linden Street. The companion case is B-O-A-1175793 with the address being 6 Pratt Street. Both are looking for the first request for an extension. Dostalla expire on August 18th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be August 18th of 2024. Is the applicant or their representative? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Joe Hannah Schneider with the Business Address of 75 State Street. We are here seeking an extension that variances been sent by the Board in 2021 for the All-Stream Project located at 16 to 22 Linden Street, 6 Pratt Street in Austin. The project entails the construction of 349 residential units, which includes 53 on-site portable units. These decisions were issued by the Board in August of 2021, but unfortunately due to the encoder-related impacts on supply chain and labor, as well as the correct record conditions we do not anticipate being able to pull over this year. We would therefore respectfully request and run your extension, which will be in August of 2022-24. Thank you. Any questions from the Board? Madam Chair, I do have a question. The letter that was sent in request the extension was just for six months, so I'm just curious about the discrepancy there. You say you're asking for a year? Sure. I'm happy to adjust that. I think initially we were very optimistic that we would only need a six-month extension, but in slightly conditions we need to be difficult. We think that a year extension would give us the appropriate amount of time. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion to approve an extension till August 18, 2024. Madam, second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A-898191, what's an address of 40-month-good road. This is the third request for an extension, which expires on June 27th of this year. If granted, the newer expiration date will be June 27th of 2024. Is the applicant or their representative? Yes. Good morning. Jared Aiken, returning. Ruben Juni, some roads with an address of 112 water street in Boston. There have been previous extensions granted. This is actually the third. Unfortunately, the property went into foreclosure. And it hasn't closed yet. The lender is still holding it technically. And the closing isn't for another week. But we respectfully ask that it be extended. This is a very large project. We're providing them in 151 units. And there's a host of variances that were granted. I respectfully request that the board allow more time for the new owner to get a contractor and finance. Any questions from the board? What's the... I'm sorry, I'm sure. Yeah. Sure, so there's a closing that will happen in a week and then what's the plan? Well, I'm not sure. I don't represent the buyer. But no, the intent to proceed with the project. As approved. Thank you. May I have a motion? I'm sure I make a motion through grand extension until June 27, 2024. May I have a second? Sure, can. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes, ma'am. Mr. Panado? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Next, we have case B-O-A, 773, 901. What's an address of 1465 V-S-W Parkway? This is the first one of the extension, which expired on August 9, 2022. May and 12, until May 27, 2022, by the board, if granted, the new expiration date will be between the new settlement of 2024. I'm sorry, Mr. Stonebridge. I did not catch the tail end. Someone was speaking. Basically, this- I acted like extension until when? Oh, sorry. So May 27, 2022. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzule, McDermott, Quilty, and Miller, 28 State Street, and Boston, here on behalf of the appellant. This would be the first extension, as Mr. Stonebridge had read into the record. The appellant is working with the Department of Transportation to finalize approvals and make final revisions to the project design, which, regardless, is a curve I've required for the project. And so they're working through design review for this. It's for a convenience store on a land which was occupied by a gas station. So the curb cut just needs to be ironed out with the DOT. They're fine in getting there, but they're just not there yet. So they're still working on that final approval, and they need that final approval in order to call the final building permit. So that's the reason for the delay. And so we're costing a one year extension until May 27 of 2024. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sizzule. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. A motion to approve the one year extension to 52724. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Fernando? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case BOA 1142166. The address of 15 leads bill three. This is the first request for extension due to expire on August 6th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be August 6th of 2024. Is the applicant for the representative present? Hi. Good morning, everyone. Yes, sir. Thank you. My name is Nelson Bamford. I am the owner of 15 leadsville street. I am here to request a one year extension. This is for two to three occupational change. Currently, the plans have been submitted to the ISD portal. All the work has been complete. The time would allow for final review and correction. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? Motion to extend to 8, 6, 20, 24. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shupper? Yes. Mr. Longfield? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 11105. Zero at the address of 40. 421 to 425 Market Street. This is the first request for extension, which was fired on December 23rd of 2022. I'm sorry. Excuse me, Madam Chair, but there is no extension date written here. I apologize for that. It's okay. We'll have for Mr. Drago. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board Attorney Jeff Drago. A Drago in the Scalope with the business address of 11B. Just by way of background, this was an article 80 project that went through both BPDA and PIC. It was approved and sometime during COVID-19, the project sold to a new owner. I represent the new owners at that time they were working on design review. Part of that process involved a vertical and over on the, so some design change in the exterior that had to go through the whole process through both BPDA and PIC. That's the better of 10 months to finally get all the legal documents approved. At that time, when they submitted their final building plans, because everything is completed on the project, everything was submitted to plan's examiner, Tom White. When he reviewed upon review, he realized that the time had already expired under the approval. So we are seeking an extension from the time that it expired in December 23rd of 2022, I believe. We have everything submitted. So we put down a year because we are already into this for five or six months. But everything is waiting at ISD. They're just not able to review this until or if an extension would be granted. So we would ask the board for those reasons to please extend that. Thank you Mr. Dr. Goh. Any questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to extend to December 23, 2024. Is that enough time? Yes, Ms. Monada, everything is submitted. So we're hoping within a few months this could be approved. Sorry, it sounds like you want to one year until December 23rd of 2023 from the 23rd of 2020. Correct. That's right. I'm sorry. That would be the yet. I'm sorry, Ms. Egg, and you're right. Ms. Alia, from one year would have been our request would have been to December of 2020. Yes. What did I say? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I want to know, you know. I like the experience. You don't. I like the experience. You know. You can't. You're not. You're not. You can't. You can't. You can't. That I'm heaven. You can't. Do you want you can't that I'm卫 distance from your arms or‑‑‑‑new I have a motion to defer to that. That's fine. I heard a second. Mr. Steffridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Okay. Next, we will move on to the groundwater conservation over the district only at 9.30. Okay. Okay. Okay. First, we have this case B-O-A-146-1987, with an address of 43 Courses Street and the notified that this appeal has been withdrawn. Okay. Is there anyone to speak to that? Or is that what we'll do? It's just withdraw. Okay. With that, then we will just withdraw and move on. Thank you. Thank you. You want to start the motion? Go ahead. Make a motion that this case be withdrawn. Second. Second. Okay. Mr. Steffridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Chair votes, yes. Motion carries. Next, we have case B-O-A-145-6872, with the address of 64 North Martin Street. Is the applicant for anyone here to represent this? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board. Again, good morning, Attorney Mixes, Ola, McDermott, Quilty and Miller. 28 State Street, Suite 802 in Boston. With me today is Tom Muglowski from 64 North Margin, LLC, who is the appellant on this. I believe Madam Chair, I know that Mr. Seminelli is, I believe, on vacation this week, but did relay support to the board. Okay. No harm letter was submitted from the Kfail Associates back in April. S was a Boston Water and SOAR approval letter from April as well to the board. Both of those are the typical human documents for the board for G-tods. This is a fully compliant project otherwise to renovate this existing structure of the site. Happy to answer any questions, but I think the usual documents are in order, Madam Chair. Yes, sir. Any other questions from the board? Would that have a motion? Motion to approve. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Thank you. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Next we will go into the hearing scheduled for 9.30 a.m. At this time, we'll ask if there are any withdrawals or deferrals that will be requested for English. Yes. This is Mark Holy for presenting out to 40 Silver Street. I'm seeking out deferrals in order to continue to work with my neighbourhood at homes that properties are on I sign my property. We have a motion. That's in the deferred. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Madam Chair, do we want to read that into the director of the B.O.A. No, Madam Chair? Oh, I'm so sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Do I have to revote everyone or can I just finish the vote and have them do that? We'll just read it into the record, Madam Chair. Okay. And that, and this is case B.O.A. 1, 2, 6, 4, 6, 7, 0 with the address of 240 Silver Street. Okay. I think I have one more person voting, Mr. Aiken. Yes. Okay. The chair also votes yes, motion carries. I hear. And that will be Madam Chair. Thank you. You give me that one before July. I wasn't in July 11th. Thank you. Is there any more move on? Any more comments? I think there was another person on. Unless we got him. I'm going to have y'all start sorry about that. Thank you. Okay. Then we move on to case. B.O.A. 1, 4, 4, 6, 5, 8, 0 with the address being 109, absent street is the applicant or the representative. Question? Question? We put your name and address in the record and let us know what you're. Yes. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Sean Halsey. The designer representing the Dupina family for one of nine baps in street. We are prepared to be the president of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Sean Halsey. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. I'm the director of the board. We are not going up higher than the existing bridge line. We're not going up. We're not extending the existing footprint. The building at all. And just strictly the classification of the third floor. We're not extending the existing footprint. And just strictly the classification of the third floor. So we're seeking forgiveness upon. I'm happy to answer any questions regarding the design or the the application. Any questions from the board? The questions from the board. The arms looked good. Thank you. May I hear a nut man public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and the neighborhood services. The sound mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process, our office health and the butter is being on April 12, 2023. As I understand there were no concerns presented there. They went on to meet with the Greater Matter Pane Neighborhood Council, which offered their support, citing that the applicant would be maintaining the existing gable range and framing of the roof, and their expanding of the donor on a slow roof, they felt was rather minor. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I have no raised hands. Madam Chair, members of the board, call solvents and councilor Raj, make a clarity, process of no regent support. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Motion to a motion. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A.144-7898. The address is 68H. Chick-a-top of the street. Is the applicant for the representative president? Yes sir. My name is Jay. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. I'm a member of the board. My name is Jay. Mr. Christopher 686 Architects, the business address of 1156 George Hester Ab. I'm here today on behalf of Jackie and Chris Frenzler HallM park. Can you walk us through the proposal? Good evening. Good morning. Yes sir. The plan is to contract a rear and side addition to the existing single family home. It's a three-hour journey. family home. It's kind of the ununercised mod, the minimum lot of equipment in this district, 5,000 square feet, you would be at 3,710 square feet. The addition happens primarily in the rear in the sense of a full basement, which would be a recreational music room for the homeowner, and then a renovated first floor, pantry and access to the side yard, and on the second floor, just reorganization of the existing bedrooms to create a master bedroom, a small office, and then two additional bedrooms. And then a farmers porch to the front of the property. We met with the butter, the project of RoarSeed, the project was reviewed by the City of Grove, the City of Association of Memorand Support. Any questions from the board? Were you asked through the violations, the rear yard side yard? Sure, the minimum lot size again is required to be 5,000 square feet. We are at 3,710 square feet. The FAR is 0.5, will be a 0.74 with a total square footage of 2,749 square feet. The allowable building height is 35 feet. We meet that, we meet the stories. Front yard is required to be 15, right? 6.4, that's existing, pretty system 9 of ones, there's no change to that, except that we do out of farmers porch. The left and right existing are 20 feet and 17 feet. It's required to be 10, and we're way down the left, we'll need relief at 4.9 feet. The right will be combined at 17 foot 7. And then the rear yard is required to be 20 feet and we'll be from the minimum will be 12 foot in the rear. Any other questions, Mr. Noble? No, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a cauter, Newland with the Mayor of South Sanford Services. This time the Mayor of South is deferred to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process, our office hosts are meeting where four butters indicated their support verbally. Our office is unaware of any concerns at this time, as you heard from the out-of-consertation, they also connected with the seated row civic that would do not have any concerns either. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McEppern, City Council, Frank Baker's office, we would like to go in strong support of this project today. The neighborhood is all behind these wonderful neighbors and we give them our support. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Saladon, City Council, and Michael Flare, and Council Director of the board. Madam Chair, members of the board, again, Mr. President from Council, Mayor of the office, the applicant completed a third community process, and as part of the Bauder's ANLC to the Public Associate Association, the Council sent over at the letter of support, but would also like to go on, and I can't support. Thank you. Thank you. I'm trying to have my way through this. Thank you. With that, we have motion. Thank you. All right, so we have motion's opening. We'll be moving like, is that everything? So, second. Thank you. Mr. Stumbridge. Yeah. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also loves yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next case in BOA 146-1172, with the address being 362 East Aces Street, is the applicant or and or their representative. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I am Stanley Monhan, applicant, research 22 East Aces Street, self-boston. I am here to request a library with deck, existing single family home. We're doing a full renovation to the existing building. Part of the, begin the roof deck, trigger violation of setbacks, because it's right on the, but you all, this is a single family home with an attached single family identical right next to us. The building right next to us, has a roof deck. Beautiful views of press and beach. We'd like to do something very similar to ours. We currently have a beautiful neighborhood, nice single family home with very little diverse space. There's a small balcony up the corner of the room. So we'd like to be able to have some more diverse space with some chairs and enjoy the outside of the summer. Any questions from the board? Going to our. Hearing none, ma'am public testimony. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh, and I host no butters meeting for 362 East Acery, on April 4th, 2023. We have received two letters of opposition from our butters. They oppose the project due to concerns regarding parties and the overall quality of life in the neighborhood. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, my name is Shem. Members of the board are Caldere on from Council President Flint, South, and St. Oslo would like to go and record in opposition based on feedback from neighbors and appartis to the project. However, Council President Flint and the South Boston elected officials have received feedback from neighbors and civic groups for years, concerning our election of group-led proposals in the neighborhood due to their impact on quality of life with documentation of thanks and to our offices of loud parties at all hours and trash removal issues that often reach up in the streets and in the sidewalks. Throughout the neighborhood, our seniors, persons with disabilities, young families have also, that this behavior was exacerbated with the pandemic. Council President Flint and Council Flaghery will respond to calls throughout the summer with Boston Police 66 Community Officers to miss a problem properties, causing the disturbances at all hours from their group text. It got to the point of raising the issue of escalating fines at the municipal level for offenses. For several years, the zoning borer has been receptive to these concerns from the neighborhood, who respectfully asked that they were continue to take the concerns of neighbors' experiences. We worked seriously when it comes to additional group-led proposals that are already impacting neighbors' quality of life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman, the board for all service to the Council of Lash, Michael Flaherty. I'd like to send them to Council President Flint's office as well as the butterfeedback, as well as the violations under audit of 68 Council General Manager and Opposition. Yep. Hey, Dan, are you looking to get a testimony here? Oh, good morning. My name is Dan. I live next door to 360 East Aid. Okay. It did not attend the abouters meeting, but just was curious, and then you mentioned the proposal had the, I think the roof deck, kind of, of running up against our wall. What kind of construction for the roof would they use? I'm sorry. Are you speaking in support of opposition? This is not a forum to answer like these. Okay. Sorry. I didn't realize. I know what they should call those hints. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is this a rental property or a full ownership? This would be for home ownership. Is it currently home ownership? Currently right now it's under construction. It's a whole I think. A whole lot of it. It would be for home ownership, yes. It's a kind of a million project. I know it's just a single family with parking, so it just be, it'll be one family and they will likely prepare a single family. Any other questions from the board? Okay. With that, may I have a motion? I'm going to motion to approve just, you know, that I'm just looking at the front of the building to this area of roof deck there, so I don't think it can make any additional issues up there. I'll motion to approve. May I have a second? A second. Mr. Steinberg. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Next. Excuse me. Next we have case B O A. One, four, four, three, six, two, three, the address of 605 East Biscuits. Is the applicant and the other representative president? Hi. I'm the applicant, Elizabeth Wagner. Can you put your address into the record and just, I appreciate we've got to see the proposal and violations. Yeah. Good morning everyone. Thanks. My address is 605 East Bidth Street, South Boston. A proposal is a one story edition in the rear yard. And the violation is the three foot setback from the side yard. So we I'm the homeowner here and it's the first story of a three story townhouse in Boston. We clearly have one bedroom on that level and are proposing a one story edition towards the rear for an additional bedroom space for guests and office space. And there's a patio of kind of brick papers laid out right now that we also wish to build, you know, a deck, a floor level deck on extending out and that's where the violation I believe is occurring on the on the one property line there. So you have all in the rear of the home. Okay. Any questions from the board? I'll drive the record. Okay, here in Nunn Mamp, I'll look just a month. Morning Madam Chair, I'm members of the board. I man await with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. Oh, and I'm so stood in the voters meetings for 6.05 East Fistory and April 10th. One of other within attendance. The proponent answered all questions. We're unaware of any concerns about this project. At this time we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the board. I'm Annika, led on from Council President Flynn's office. The council would like to go on recording support based on a good community process and not concerned stress at the voters meeting or to our office thereafter. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boyle Paul Solvins, the council lodged like a plery acknowledging that we left the winds drafting Article 68. There are projects that do have merit. There's to be one on the council. The council has heard of no opposition. The councilor therefore would like to go on recording support. Madam Chair, I have no resistance for the supposing. Okay, we've got a motion. Motion motion motion. Second. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Melencia. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Mr. Aiken. The next, the next, the next case, earlier, what's different earlier, so going on to the next one, the next case will be, be away, one, four, four, two, five, six, one, with the address of 104 can now be the last three. This is an article of ED case. Is the applicant and the ornate representative present? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And Jared Aiken, again, good morning. Madam Chair, may I move to the board of Ruben Junison Rose, 112 Water Street. With me is architect, a BK Bully of Stantec, and Vincent Cortina for the developer, Sonna Hospitality. BK is going to present the project. I just want to give you some history. The project actually came before this board years ago for zoning relief in 2015. Didn't proceed. Got caught up in the COVID pandemic. The previous attorney, Bruce Silman, actually, asked away way too young a couple of years ago after getting several extensions. So this is a do-over. We did not ask for another extension, went through small project review again last year. And we're back for relief for a G-Cod FAR height and loading. Just on the loading, DPW and BTD is very interested in pedestrianizing canal street as it leads into the Boston Garden. And so there is no off-street loading. It will be handled on the side street. BK will take you through the presentation. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, I'm members of board. I apologize. My video is not loading. So I will have to be in Cogmido for this presentation. I am a design principal at Stantec, architectural located at 40 water street in downtown Boston. As you can see here on this image, the location of the project is at the center of Canal Street in the both-inch triangle. You can go to the next slide, please. It is going to take the place of a one-story building that has been there for many years. It's kind of a missing tooth along Canal Street. It's a bank of America building. You could see views up and down of Canal Street. Next. This shows our building in blue. And we're asking for a building height of 149 feet, which we think is commissar with some of the other buildings and the immediate neighborhood. And we think we'll fit very nicely into the slot that it sits in a long Canal Street in a lengthy way. Next. The footprint is quite small. It's only 3,600 square feet. And if you go to the next plan, you can see on the ground floor, we have a lobby. We have loading in the back of the building. If you go to the next slide. And then we have an entrance off of Canal Street. The city is considering cabling Canal Street as a pedestrian way from Palente down to Cosway. So we've been working with them most recently to make sure that where our entrance is, which is being adjusted in everything. And the sidewalks all work with their future plans. Next. We have moved the transformer vault for resiliency reasons to the second and third floor. It's a two-story space. We have a very small hospitality room on the second floor with two beds. And then if you go to the next slide, it gives you a sense of the typical floor that has eight keys per floor, two elevators and two stair doors. You can go to one more. This is the top of the building. And what we've tried to do is to bury most of the mechanical equipment inside the room fine of the building. So that doesn't affect the neighborhood views. And I believe in the next few slides, we're showing you some of the elevations that we're wearing the set that you have. It's a brick building. And it has a very nice corner at the top of the building. And you can see that the mechanical penthouse is sitting below that corner on the top of the building. There's a very nice base middle top with quite a bit of detail. We have a few render views that show you a hit context. This is the building. It's teen stories tall. It's an IDAT. What we are asking for. There's really no material change from the original permit, except for the new compliance with the new energy code, etc. The next few shows you a view from Canal Street looking back at how it fits into the rhythm of the Macy's Rebuildings along Canal Street. The next few shows a front entrance of the project into the second story which has the hospitality room. And then these final show you the level of detail that we're thinking about for the Macy's Rebuildings. One more. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is this a hotel flag or a private hotel? We've worked with a number of flags before COVID. And so what we're doing is we're reaching out the flags we'd forward. It may be a boutique hotel or a boutique part of a larger brand. Thank you. Madam Chair, through the chair. Yes. What's the time while we're in construction projects and also have we selected a general contract in this project? We have not selected a general contractor yet. We were working with one previous to COVID who had done the initial estimating for us. We are considering that the building is going to be CLT which is new mass timber structure that can go up to 15 stories who are investigating back with a number of different contractors and subcontractors. We expect to do drawings and finalized drawings by the end of this coming up year. Construction may start as seen as next spring if not the following fall. Any other questions from the board? Here and that may have public testimony. Then, morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, I am Ciardimika from the Mayor's Office of New York services. The applicant did have an ongoing community process as exceeded. Back in 2014, they did meet with the West Sensitive Association where the committee did not oppose for their zoning and planning committee. Then when they were ready to restart the project and had some changes, they did go back to the BPDA's small project review. And they did meet with the West Sensitive Group again back in October 2022. They did not require a letter from that group but they did submit some comments to the BPDA and they didn't have any opposition again. But at this time, we would like to refer to the Board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Akal DeRong from Council President Flick Sources. The councilor would like to go on record and support based on a good community process and feedback from the neighbors and civic organizations. He provided us a full letter to the board this morning as he did with the BPDA board previously. Council President Flick Sources, respectfully request that the proponent work closely with the community on an equality of live issues that may arise during the construction phase. He also urged the team to work closely with the West N Museum to preserve the historical elements from the original bank building. Thank you. Thank you. And Madam Chair, members of the Board, on the Solidarity Council, letting the committee play a considerable record and support. I'm Bob, can I give testimony here? I'm sorry. I was on the micobossum transportation. I was wondering if the applicant can show me how the loading and unloading is going to take place on Valentiway. Hi, if you go back to the plan, you can see that it's a street loading on the side of Valentiway. There is a trash run as well as access to the laundry room, which is down below. Most of the laundry work is going to be happening on the site in the basement where we have a small fitness center in a laundry area. If you go to the ground floor plan, which is a few more, one more after that, I think shows the ground floor. So you could see two doors on the left. One is an egress here, and one is the trash run. That is located just beyond the luggage room in the SEC room. Okay, Madam Chair, let's make, I'd like to make a suggestion. In a sense, it's very, very tight on Valentiway. I would like to limit the size of the delivery vehicles to what they call an issue 30. Attract a trail or what have a very difficult time meaning access and egress to the site. So I'd like to limit the size of the truck to what they call an issue 30. Thank you. Thank you. Would that be an issue? We think that would be fine. Okay, thank you. I see VPDA hand raised. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Erin Skittens, and I'm a project assistant at the VPDA. As mentioned, this project was previously approved by the VP8 board in October 2014 and the proponents. I hope a small project changed with the VPDA on September 23rd, 2022. About the cleaning was held via Zoom on October 20th, 2022, which was advertised in the local maintenance paper and online, and our board approved a small project change on November 17th. The project has the agency support and received support from several members of the community during the article 80 review process. Thank you. Thank you, minor. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. The Madam and Chair, members of the board, minor, press represent in the Cardinal's Union, on behalf of all our Boston residents, we'd like to go and request for this project. Thank you. You know what I'm saying? Okay, any additional questions from the board? Yeah, Madam Chair, I would like to ask the proponent. I was already reviewed the VPDA memo, and this is a commercial building that is no affordable housing. Also, the project is less than 100,000 square feet, so I don't think the project is making a contribution to a linkage bond. So I would like to ask the proponent if you can tell us more about what are the community benefits that this project is, a brand new to the community. Chair, do I like that to be you or me? All right, I'll start. Well, the nearly benefits include synergy with North Station and the Boston Garden. Although there was a hiccup, of course, with COVID and hospitality, and the street took a big hit, and working with the community and with the VPDA, this seems to be the right use. And it's a very small site, so it cannot support dip payments as you reference. It's actually not even 50,000 square feet. It's something on the order of 47,000. But I do think it's going to help, not just I think, the VPDA would also thought it would help in live and canals, especially if it does get table to have a tourist hotel at this location. Okay, thank you. I would just add that the community and the VPDA were really in favor of filling in this open hole that exists. So there's going to be new activity on the ground floor plan. It's going to be well lit, safe at a corner. It is only really lit on the opposite side right now with the other building that went up. There's obviously going to be sidewalk improvements on new jobs, construction jobs as well. So that's in addition to doing a very green building. We really think that this is going to lend a lot to the character of Canal Street at this intersection. Thank you. I appreciate that. I appreciate the jobs in the public space, the job. And I like the real thing in general. It was just curious how much the contributions to the city or the benefits because you simply make projects bring other benefits like contributions to public projects, etc. So it was just curious to see if there was any financial wealth, no, more than the memo. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Would that be a motion? Madame Chair, I just, David, I do have one quick question. I just, uh, and maybe this is just part of the motion, but I'm just, curious, uh, I know Bob had Bob Dumiko had this question about the limiting of trucks and just not sure if that's intended to be requested as a proviso or just something that's documented. That should be a proviso. If that's something that we would like to incorporate into the motion. Okay. Are you making a motion? I'm happy to do so then. Now too. You're free. The motion to approve with a proviso of limiting to SU-30 trucks. And not sure if I don't believe this needs. Uh, yep, that's it. Thanks. Great. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Here also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Good luck. Very much. Next we have case B-O-A-1-3-2-9-3-9-1. The address being 300 to 399 Vanill Hall marketplace is the applicant or the representative president? Yes. Yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of my name is Eric Lawrence. CEO of Soul Cannabis. Today we're here seeking zoning relief to open an adult use cannabis dispensary in Vanill Hall of Marketplace. Soul Cannabis is a majority minority owned economic empowerment and social equity applicant has been certified by the city of Boston. Our site is located at 340 North Market Street is the old dirt and park restaurant location. The site's been dormant for over five years. We're eager to prepare to make the necessary investment to renovate and activate this historic site. Next slide, please. And next slide, please. We have a seven member ownership team, local season business professionals, that experience that spans many industries, including the operation of existing doors open dispensaries. Next slide, please. A mission is to create an immersive sort of music theme retail dispensary that supports the cultural arts. Site will have a state-of-the-art reporting studio which will serve as the anchor to our community impact plan. Next slide, please. A location is to commercialize on with no direct residential, a butters. There are other dispensaries within our half-mile butter, a buffer. We feel strongly that the downtown area can support multiple dispensaries because our buffer zone, within our buffer zone, there are nine different density-populated neighborhoods. Vanill Hall of Marketplace is its own ecosystem of seeing 20 million visitors a year as a seventh most visited site in the country. Now I'm going to turn it over to my partner Todd Fernard who's going to talk a little bit more about the location. Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Eric. The Lawrence. Can you go over this presenting next? Can you just include, let us know what are those other locations within the buffer zone and like, whatever they? Absolutely. So, I appreciate it. What's your thank you. We utilize place or AI technology to track where visitors to Vanill Hall are coming from and where they are going to. In summary, we see here on actually the next slide. Great, right there. We see that the people who are coming to Vanill Hall marketplace are not visiting North Station or the financial district or many of the other nine neighborhoods located within the half-mile. They're coming to Vanill Hall and they're going home primarily or back to their hotel. But the data clearly shows that less than one percent of these visitors are going to go any of the other dispensaries that are located outside of Vanill Hall. And we will come back to the slide and point out the other dispensaries within the Sun. But they're all outside of Vanill Hall. On the next slide, we actually see more interesting data. New Frontier tracks 164 billion active cannabis users. Their data shows that there are more cannabis consumers standing in front of Durgan Park than even visited any of the other open dispensaries during the time being calculated. Over 24,000 cannabis users stood in front of Durgan Park. These potential customers are not walking down to a sand in front of the garden or even into the financial district to find a dispensary. The data shows us that they just were going to make that half mile walk. More to the point and on the next slide, we can see that the Vanill Hall marketplace is asking for a cannabis retail experience inside of the bustling space just to the next slide if you don't mind. Thank you. Here you'll see a letter from George Macherakis who is the president of the Vanill Hall Merchants Association. In summary, George and the Merchants Association show their express their opinion and it's clear an overwhelming majority of the merchants would like to see us open sole cannabis within the Vanill Hall. And merchants that support our merchants also support our belief that cannabis dispensaries outside of Vanill Hall are not driving foot traffic to Vanill Hall. Lastly, the resurgence of this important foot traffic is critically important to the success of the marketplace and our unique entertainment focus concept is exactly what George and the overwhelming majority of the merchants want to see in Vanill Hall. We share the letter because it's an important piece of information. The business community is fully supportive of our application. From the Office of Economic Opportunity and Inclusion, we know that applicants are granted cannabis license within a half mile buffer zone. If the applicant can provide sufficient information that demonstrates the site will have no detrimental impact on the existing residential and business community. This was the conclusion that the BCB unanimously reached in our last meeting. Opening sole cannabis in the middle of Vanill Hall have zero detrimental impact on the residential community. As Vanill Hall was somewhat isolated from any of the residential communities around. And the business community has shown overwhelming support. During our approval process with Boston Cannabis Board, a market study was commissioned by the City of Boston designed to study whether local cannabis whether the local cannabis market had reached a saturation. We believe that the takeaway from the Fitzgerald report was that we're clearly a long way away from the market being saturated. Dr. Fitzgerald's Board and Degree and Research from Whitney Economics and information provided by the Massachusetts Cannabis Control Commission. The MACCC determined that a possible saturation point for the state could be at a point between 627 and 921 retail outlets. Well, only 271 dispensaries are opened thus far. Massachusetts, the City of Boston, and most specifically Vanill Hall Market Place are not saturated at this point in time. Probably on things now back over to Eric once. Thank you, Todd. Yes, can we just go back to slide number six so that we can answer the question, the chair regarding what other locations? Yes, as you can see in this diagram here, there is a send which is at North Station within our buffer. There's Apex, New York, which is listed as Verde here that is in the financial district, Roster Roots is in the financial district. Purely, this is in downtown crossing, and then there's Patriarch care as well in our early in our buffer zone. Roster Roots is not currently open. I'm not sure when they will be opening, but those currently are the other dispensaries that are within our buffer. Now we can cut if you don't have any questions, Madam Chair, we'll continue on to our site location on page Latin. Thank you. Yeah, just a couple of points to make on our site. Our site is six floors and approximately 15,000 square feet. It offers ample space to queue customers inside the facility, preventing the need to have lines forming outside the building. Our main floor, our main sales floors will be located on the first and second floor, and our studio operations will be located on the top six floor. Next slide, please. We will hire a diverse workforce and we will train and prepare them for upper mobility within the cannabis industry. We've committed to source 20% of our products from social equity companies. Next slide, please. Whenever possible, we want to provide employment to individuals that have been penalized on the cannabis prohibition. We'll offer a preference, higher on preference to Boston residents. Starting salaries will range between 20 and $22 an hour, and we'll offer performance increases at 3, 6, and 12 months. We'll offer a full benefits package. Next page, next slide, please. We plan to allocate $200,000 a year in free recording time to aspiring artists from disproportionately impacted areas. The director of music and business, Michael Bivens, will rely on us four years of experience in the music industry to mentor and assist aspiring artists navigating the music industry. We'll work with the Fannie-Villain marketplace management team to set up a soundstage twice a year, and have local artists join celebrity artists on stage to hone their performing skills. Next slide, please. The CCC has established strict security regulations and guidelines. We'll comply with the stage guidelines to ensure that we are offering safe, secure access to cannabis products. We've contracted with an outside security company to provide in-house security. We will coordinate with the Fannie-Villain marketplace security to ensure that our customers are compliant with our nuisance prevention policies. Next slide, please. I've always been a good neighbor and a positive addition to the Fannie-Villain marketplace business community. Also, cannabis customers will be required to comply with a nuisance prevention policy of no public consumption, no law-tering, no littering, or any unlawful behavior. In closing, I'd like to say that our business plan is very much in line with Mayor Wu's plan to transform downtown Boston, re-imagined Fannie-Villain marketplace, activate closed storefront, and to create preserved spaces that support the cultural arts in Boston. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Any other questions? I'll talk about the windows given the restrictions and the fact this is an important tourist attraction and pedestrian experience. Windows relating to them like being covered? Yeah, are you doing anything to make them a little better pedestrian experience in just black windows? Yeah, well, we want to make the location very welcoming. If you go back to slide number 11 and you look at our floor plan, we actually will have a queuing area, which will be a lobby area where no cannabis products will be visible. So we'd like to have those windows open so we can have a more inviting experience. We plan to collaborate with a lot of the local vendors to sell different wares so that space could be used for multiple purposes outside the sale of cannabis product. So what's the pedestrian experience going to feel like? Well, again, we wanted to be welcoming where people will come in, be a experience, again, securing safe access to cannabis product. And it will have, again, our music theme will be through the whole facility. So people will have an opportunity to actually stream, we'll be able to stream from our recording studio down into ourselves for potentially recording artists that are recording utilizing the studio facility. Customers will experience that. So pedestrians will experience that? Not for this if they're within the facility, yes. But my question is sort of if you're not entering the facility, you're walking by. What does that experience feel like given that you have to have, you know, dark windows? Well, yeah, some of the regulations have changed around the windows, providing that you're not viewing a cannabis transaction or any cannabis products. You are allowed to have your windows open into like your vestibule security check-in. Okay. Yes. So it won't be just black. And then do you have to be in the cannabis establishment to access the studios? This is like a music performing recording studio or are they separate the two facilities? It's one facility. The studio can be accessed through a limited access elevator. Only people who have pre-em ranged appointments to your live facility will be allowed to go up to the actual recording studio. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. You're welcome. And so it's just to clarify, it's the same walk in like a walk in facility, people order in advance. And only those enter, those folks enter like how do you avoid chewing up or crowds or etc. Yeah, we will have both. We'll have an express. If you look at the facility there, there's an express counter on one to enter into the actual dispensary area. There's no express pickup. So people will be able to pre-order online. That will limit a lot of the weighting. And today, you know, because of the all the different dispensaries that are open, you're really not seeing lines because we are going to be a destination location and, you know, building ourselves as an attraction. We do anticipate to have good foot traffic and plenty of customers, but these four trucks in the 1200 square feet, about 2500 square feet comprising a total 15,000 half of that space on our first floor is going to be dedicated to our entrance lobby check and area. So we should be able to fit easily 150 people into that, that's not the facility without them being outside the cell and having lines for any other questions from the board. Okay, with that, yeah, yeah, yeah, open to call the testman. Good morning, madam chair, members of the board. I'm Sarah Demiko from the mayor's office at the input services. I'll be able to complete a community process and on behalf of our office, we have community meeting August 15 of 2022, where a button businesses did weigh some concerns of just the location overall and having a business nearby as well. They also did present to the World District Council, where they did receive a letter of opposition, but at this time, our office will like to differ to the board's judgment. Thank you. Good morning, madam, our members of the board, Annakal De Don from Council President Flames Office. The council would like to go and break through support. Again, as he did previously at the cannabis board, he sent a letter this morning to the board as well. He support comes from a good community process, the applicant's commitment to community through mentorship opportunities and that is a majority, minority own business and 35 Boston equity cannabis applicants. At this time, we're trying to bring economic activity back to the downtown area. Council President Flames believes it is also critical to activate a long-term site with jobs and opportunities, bringing food traffic to Fanny Hall and to neighboring business as well. Thank you. Thank you. We do have a few ways hands. I'll start with you. Can you say your name and address for the work? Let us know if you support our position. I'm Ryan E. Mohamed and I was hired out of 50, Linwood Street in Boston Mass, you know, in full support of so cannabis. So good morning, chair and I met the board. Thank you. Thank you. Just good. Can we focus on our batteries please? Yeah, we can not show who's our buddy. I know. Yeah, that was an honor. But yeah, for those for those online. Thank you. Madam Chair, as was the board, my name is Tito Jackson. I reside at 37 Skyler Street and Dorchester, but my business is at 150 State Street and I just want to know that we do need to put in perspective that typically in cannabis when they come before you, that's a straight conditional use. Asked, this is obviously a variance, which actually has a higher bar. And I would know one thing I do want to correct a record that there was one additional cannabis location that was missed. There's a cannabis, Rasta Roots, pure racists, ascend, apex and roar, and then there's another one that has, it's on High Street, which is called Primitive. So currently, there are six of these businesses that are zoned in this area. This board put in place a buffer zone cannot create what they have in Denver, which is a green mile. Essentially what is being created here is a green half a mile. And so I believe it is incumbent upon the board to step in. I as a business owner have not come to you for all of the others. I am coming to you for this one taking into account several factors. One of the factors is the traffic as noted, and many of the large buildings downtown are only about 30 percent full. In addition, the proximity that was noted is actually somewhat mistated. This business is actually about 500 feet from our current business. And Rasta Roots is actually only 200 feet from our current business. We are all in this area to be in the Fannie O'Hall area. This argument that Fannie O'Hall is in some way a very different economic bubble that is absolutely not the case. And frankly, I wouldn't be paying the rent that I pay to not be in Fannie O'Hall. This is- These wrap up, are you in favor of an opposition? Madam Chair, I'm strongly in opposition, and I would ask that the board actually put the brakes on having black owned businesses compete with each other in ways that other organizations don't have to compete. Out of those six, four of them are already black owned businesses. And this would be a fifth. And I think if we're talking about access, we actually need to split that conversation to success and make sure that the businesses that are currently here, as well as our employees have an opportunity to grow and flourish. Thank you. Probably an opposition. Thank you. Hi, can you, Manny? This is Susan Lwango. I am a 43-year merchant at Fannie O'Hall marketplace. I am in favor of this project. We have had a lot of empty space here. We continue to have that. So cannabis is the only vendor that has come to us willing to invest $1 million into this project. We've had no one else approach us. We are strongly in favor of this project because we need to revitalize the marketplace. Thank you. Thank you. Are you related to Peter? I see his hand as raised as well. He has a few things to do with him. Okay, we need to work with him. I'm James Fannie. Hi, my name is James Fannie. I live in the Southampe area. I am a figure of this location and opens up opportunities for entertainers. I believe Eric and Michael Pippins will do a great job offering people of the opportunities besides cannabis. And Eric worked very hard. Thank you. You want me to go on? I'm Jeff. Okay, let's drive two of us. Okay, I'm Dora. I can get the idea. Hello, my name is Dora Weathers. I'm a resident, Axie and Beacon Hill, 250 Cambridge Street, and I'm also a business owner in Boston, a school-based crew. I'm in full support of so cannabis. There's many layers, but it's absolutely amazing to apply the uplift for black dispensary and single hallway. There was Flate Trade Tilt, and I think monetizing off our gifts is something that they bring. And $8 per black household, it was crazy here. So I think I'm not raising it. Okay, Harry. One more. Yeah, okay. Harry? Yes, my name is Perry Dyer. I own Cyber Sound Recording Studios here in the back page. We've worn on new, very stringless. I fully support cell cannabis and personally, we're running the recording studio out. Thank you. Thank you. All right. I think we can get the idea. Any other questions from the board? Okay, may I have a motion? I'm motion to approve with BPDA Design Review. Just on the exterior of that building, it's marked a store. So preserving the exterior is relatively important. Okay, second. Second. Okay, Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Ado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we are approaching the 11 o'clock hour with this hearing scheduled in. Oh, sorry. Okay. This time we will move on to the 11 o'clock hearing. Would you want to take a five minute break, Madam Chair? I, I guess since we should be waiting to 11, is that right? Yes, Madam Chair. Okay, sure. Five minute break. Bye, I'll break it is. Bye.