 All right Madam Chair, the floor is yours. Thank you. Good evening. The City of Boston's Zoning Board of Appeals subcommittee hearing for April 14th 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15th 2022. The hearing of this subcommittee is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This meeting is also being recorded. In order to ensure the hearing of this board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout, unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Both board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the meeting as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panellists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most most impacted by the project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom Webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the ambassador sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connecting to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. Again, if you are connected by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the ambassador. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. We will take a quick roll call since this is the subcommittee hearing. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good evening. Miss, Miss, better. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening. So let's begin the meeting. So let's toss it to you, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first order of business, are there any deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock cases? If you can give me the address first, please. 15 Mahine Street. Thank you for the record calling VOA 126 1647 15 Mahine Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam Zameransi with the business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. We're here today to ask for deferral to allow us to meet with the Jamaica Plain Abelhood Council that has yet to happen. We're scheduled to meet with them on May 18th. And also we'd like to request to be heard in front of the full board as well, please. In front of the full board, does that mean that it is not on a rock site? Correct. Okay. So may I have a motion for a deferral? I'll make a motion for deferral. I second. I too am in support. The date for the full board. Mr. Spitz, we're going to give you June 7th. We can't fit you in any sooner. So June 7th at 1130. Great. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. For the record. Sorry. Following B.O.A.128. 9454. For Chair, a key street. Name an address for the record, please. Attorney John Polgini, 10 Forbes, Rowan and Braintree. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. We're requesting a deferral. And also we'd like this to go to the full board. This is also not oner occupied. We have, we're having an updated refusal letter, which is still at ISD. The previous deferral, you guys granted was on March 17th, and it just came up so fast and things say, you guys know sometimes it's running slowly. So that's where we're at. We'll make a motion for the twirl. Yes, sir. Hansi, do you have a second? A second. I too am in support. The date, please. It will also be June 7th, Mr. Polgini. Thank you, everybody. 11th. 11th. Thank you, too. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock meeting? 4748 Snow Hill Street, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Calling case B.O.A.128. 3294. 4748 Snow Hill Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Matt Eckle with Dregout and Tuscano with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking deferral this evening. We were just brought on to this case and due to some turnover in the mayor's office and neighborhood services. We got a date quicker than expected here. We do still have two community groups to appear before in the north end. So we're seeking to have continued ongoing community process. So we would request the deferral to perhaps June to make sure we have enough time for your June subcommittee if that works for the board. Mr. Eckle, would it be beneficial to do July? After me with two boards and I don't know if they're meeting. We can do June 16th, but we can also do July 21st. We do have the meeting scheduled for the month of May, so if we could go with June, I'll make a motion for the deferral by then. I second. The two men support. So the date, please. The date will be June 16th at 5 p.m. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Are there any other deferrals? Well withdrawals. Hearing none, I'll call the first case. On the case, BOA 1-283840-102-102-High Street. This is to install a 12 by 12 roof deck over an existing first floor roof. The violation is atical 62 section 25, roof structure restrictions, a low roof roof deck. Name and address for the record please. This concept building or assembly representing? We do have two hands raised on the attendee section. Okay. Is Brian? Are you here for this case? I just sent a request to unmute you. Brian, a limb? Yes, hello. Brian, I'll limb on the architect. Please put your name and address on the record. Okay. Brian. Brian, you work. I think you might be muted. No, don't. Brian, can you unmute yourself? Brian, we can't hear you. There we go. Okay. See me. Yeah. Hi. I think it's working out. Yeah. Okay. Name and address for the record please. Sure. 102 High Street, Charlestown Mass, Brian Charles Alamy. Jason, tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing a deck to be finished over an addition that's been placed on the house. It was currently, it was previously HVAC mechanical and the owner has since moved in and would like to have it finished as a deck. And so was this addition done as a Friday? Did it come to this board? I believe there was a previous meeting of the board on the addition itself. Okay. Can I ask Tom? What's there? Any providers about no roof decks or anything on the initial hearing? Sure. I'm looking at the board decision from 2020. It looks like there is not any prizes at all. Okay. Okay. So please tell us about then this proposed deck. Brian. Sure. Yeah. There'll be a new tracks deck on top with a ride iron rails around it. The egress is off the first floor. It the current below the deck is currently a mudroom and there's a patio in that back area. There's really only one neighbor view in the rear of the deck that faces his property but there's a stockade fence that basically blocks the deck. I'm sorry to interrupt. Is this a single family? It is. Okay. How would the plans miss better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. And is anybody here to either speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? My name is Chair. I have no raised hands in that show where the mayor's office is on but I'm no raised hands on my side. Yeah, sorry about that. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office and everyone's services. At this time, the mayor's office would defer judgment to the board. She's speaking with our trial sound liaison. Our office is unaware of any concerns that we haven't received any letters of opposition or letters of support. Thank you. Miss Ambassador, it looks like somebody sent us a note. Valerie is in Valerie Brown. Can you just because the notes don't go into the records so we should just make sure? Sorry about that. I got kicked off. I apologize. I got kicked off momentarily. Let me just check with Valerie. No worries. Valerie, I sent a request to unmute you. Were you looking to speak on this? I don't think we have. Okay, and let's just see. I just lost it here. The BPDA recommends approval with design review. So can I have a motion please? I'm chair. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review and that the relief is only granted for the roof deck. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set with that proviso. Great. Thank you so much. Calling an ex-case calling BOA 129 9297 149 H street. This is a change of arcs from a one to a two family dwelling and proposed rare and vertical additions with rare and roof decks and renovate. The violations, article 68, section 29, roof structure restrictions, article 68, section 33, off street parking and loading, off street parking is insufficient. Article 68, section 8, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 68, section 8, the building height is excessive and feet. Article 68, section 8, the sidejads insufficient. Article 68, section 8, the additional odd area is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Hi, do we have anyone on for this case? Can you raise your hand? Don't smell any raised hands at the moment. We can come back to that in the back. So we'll come back to it. Calling the next case, calling BOA 128, 785, 14, Victoria Street. This is to extend an existing dormant to the exterior wall for steaway from second to third floor. Allow enough headroom to walk up and down the stairs. The violation's article 65, section 9, sidejad is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Hello, my name is Henrik Strenberg, co-owner of 14 Victoria Street in the Georgia store. Tell us briefly what you're proposing to do. So we have an existing dormant that's been there since the house was constructed. The headroom of that dormant is too low to be decoded. So we want to increase the ceiling height so that we can walk safely up and down stairs to the third floor. And when was the building constructed? It was 1893. Okay, sorry. And so is it a full dormer? Correct. Currently it sits about four feet behind the plane of the of the west-western east doorway and we're going to extend the front of the dormer to the plane of the house. So we're not expanding the actual footprint of the building. Got it. But it doesn't encroach on the side of your setback. Okay. How are the plans? Miss better? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, we're joined with the mayor's office and the member's services. Our office hosted an abouters meeting for the project on February 7th. Abouters were in support as well as the Columbia Seven Hills Civic Association and unanimity. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. I do have a raised hand. John, are you here for this? Would you like to give testimony on this? Yes. So my name is Jonathan Mehlick. I live at 18 Derturie Street, two houses down from the applicants. And I'd like to say my unqualified support for the request. I took a tour of the house offered by the previous owners before the president owner's moved in. And I'm 6'6 tall. And I remember I almost had to bend double to go up from the second to the third floor. The proposal will not increase the footprint of the house. It will simply make it possible for the third floor to be used by anyone of any size. So my wife and I agree on this point. Thank you. That's pretty compelling from a 6'6'er. And I have no addition to a raise hand. My daughter is 5'5", as she can't work straight up the stairs. No, I'm okay. So, me, I have a motion, please. Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review on the X-Terry. I'll second that motion. Hi, two of them in support. So you're all set, but that provides a good look. Thank you, Madam. Thank you, Board. Calling the next case. Calling VOA 1288 317 69 Rich View Street. This is a remodel of Kitchen for us. We'll about to move on to the next case. The Violation is Article 65, Section 9. The side yards and sufficient, and Article 65, Section 9, the Ray Yacht is in sufficient. May I just fill the record, please? Matt is on. You're muted. Oh, there you go. Okay. Hi, this is Matt Murphy, 23. Emma's Day of Road. Wes Roxbury. So is this a one or two family? This is a single family owner occupied. Okay, so are you the I'm the builder representing Michael Wood? Okay. So tell us what's being proposed. Okay, this is part of our renovation project geared towards making the home a little more accommodating to to age in place. We'd like to widen the side stairs from three feet to four feet to in preparation for a future ramp if needed. We'd like to add a first floor bathroom. A barrier-free shower from a building becomes an issue. A rear deck, a small rear deck, about eight and a half by nine and a half feet. They could create some private outdoor space if we have to put a first floor bedroom in and live live on the first floor. And it's Michael's a long time resident and he's just you love David. Just just just just a couple of questions. So that that proposed stairway is there is that is that often often existing driveway and how many cars you have in that driveway? There's one car in the driveway. You could fit to tandem but there's one car in the driveway. It's going to replace an existing stair. About the same size. It's the stair we're replacing is about 32 inches wide. We'd like to make this 48 inches. Oh, got it. Okay, cool. And I see that rear deck. How are the plans much better? I don't share the plans are adequate. And is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? He is getting Madam Chair members of the board. For which when with the mayor's office and the neighborhood services our office was in a bloodish meeting on February 9th and there are no concerns in the community. At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. And I do have a raised hands chic. Hi, can you say your name and address for the record please? Yes, Rashique Glenn 11. Rich View Street. So we're neighbors. Okay, go ahead. I just want to speak in support. It's a great neighborhood and I to see myself aging in place. So I'm just here to support for the matter. Thank you. And they have no additional raise hands at the moment. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I would like to put a motion forward of approval. I will second that motion. I too, men support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B.O.A. 129-540-119-21 Chevrolet Road. This is to add two non-required parking spaces located entirely in the side yard and tandem configuration for an existing two family. The violations, Article 10, Section 1, a limitation of parking area. The proposed parking is within five feet of the side lot line. Article 65, Section 42.7. The side yard, the narrow lot, no side yard in which there is a driveway provided access to off-street parking or off-street loading facilities required by this article. So not be less than 10 feet wide. Name and address for the record please. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Attorney Patrick Mahoney with the business address of 160 Federal Street. I'm here representing tonight owner-occupant Doug Shaheen. I'm Mr. Shaheen purchased the two family property in 1985. At which time there was no curb and they were using a paved driveway in the area and sometime in the late 80s. The city had recurved Chevrolet Road for the first 100 yards up from the corner of Dorchester Ave and at that time he didn't feel as necessary to have a curb cut this parking wasn't a concern. Currently today, Mr. Shaheen with the development in the area, Mrs. Shaheen reached out to us at Boston Zoning to put the curb cut, apply for a curb cut, street opening permit to go back so he could have the parking on the side of his home again where there's one more. So, Councillor, have you seen the BPDAs recommendation? We have not. It's essentially straight to Nile. It basically talks about the limitation of the area. It would eliminate the side yard. It would eliminate a publicly accessible street parking spot and interrupt the public sidewalk. I, so the question for you on behalf of your client is whether you want to take a deferral and see if there's a way of walking this out. I would like to proceed. Madam Chair, Secretary, I don't know if Mr. D'Amico's on but he did speak on this. I'd like to put his comments in for the record. Yes, please. Okay, this is from Bob D'Amico, a BTD. In his opinion, the request should be denied due to the lack of space for the vehicle and the rear of the plan and that the vehicle closer to the curb cut would also result in front yard parking. Also, BTD does not support one vehicle for one curb cut census with result in private parking. There is parking on both sides of the Jevres road. Okay. Okay. So, we can proceed if you'd like to put anything on the record. Yes, Madam Chair, so the plan essentially speaks for itself and with the BBDA recommendation, you know, we appreciate that. We would like to proceed specifically because the side yard requirement here is 10 feet. What's proposed is 8 feet to the edge of the roof line, which is about 9 inches further. So we would have one space that would comply with what would be considered a reduced space at 7 feet by 8, 7 feet by 18 feet. And also, Dorchester Article 65 is one of two zoning sub districts in Boston, where tandem parking is allowed. So, let me just ask you a question. I look at the parking over here and I see that, you know, if I call space one, the one closes to the street and space two, the one closes to the rear yard, is that what is the distance between the bump out of the building and the side property line? Because the bump, yes, yeah, go ahead. The bump, sorry, it didn't mean to call you up, I was trying to answer it. The bump out from the edge of the roof line is 6.7 feet to the property line. It's greater than that to the actual side of the building and the foundation itself. So the, the, what I'm trying to say is that if I look at the plants that are up on the screen, it looks like the building between the two parking spaces, the building pops out and narrows that driveway. And what I want to understand is what's the, the, the, the size of that driveway at that narrowest point? Oh, I see what you're saying. So, so, in two hands at that. So what's shown in the plan is eight feet from the edge of the roof to the property line. The roof hangs out out approximately nine to 10 inches from the building's edge. So it'd be approximately eight feet, 10 inches in the front and approximately seven feet, five inches in the narrowest point. And it's worth noting that in Dorchester, the minimum parking space per the zoning code is seven feet by 18 feet. So it does would meet the minimum size, even the narrows point would meet the minimum size from the driveway area. So I think my question is, at the narrowest point, will a car be able to get to space number two? Yes, yes, is the answer. And not only Mr. Shaheen was able to do so when he first purchased the home. And in the zoning sub district then was before Article 65 took effect. And when the city closed the curb at that area due to construction in the area, they closed, there was a curb cut there that he was using. And he, they paved and curbed that first 100 yards in from Dorchester Rath with the reconstruction back and late the late 80s a few years after he purchased the property. So he was using it for a period of time. Yes, okay. And his car currently fits today. He drives a Toyota Corolla. But as we know, relief goes within the property, not with the current occupant. But I guess all of that to say with the minimum space required for Article 65, Dorchester's zoning sub district would fit both spaces in the area in between. And there would be no front yard park. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, George Schwinn, the mayor's office, the new services. Many of the letters in support of the proposal in order to free up more parking on the street. And the St. Mark's area association also would allow support as the applicants have been great neighbors over the years. At this time, our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have letters one letter with 15 names on it in support and four letters of support. Madam Chair, I do have some raised hands here. Let's start with John Finley. Decent the request to unmute you. Once unmute, can you state your name and address for the record, please? Hi, can you hear me? Yes. So my name is John Finley. 154th Center Street. I'm the head of the Epiphany School. And don't see that. I don't know how to put my camera on, but anyway, I, Doug she's been a terrific, fantastic member of the community super involved. And I sympathize with the building that's been going on and parking has gotten increasingly difficult. And I think all of us at Epiphany are fully in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Judith? Yes, Judith Blasdi. I am in the resident of 19 San Luis. Oh, Joseph, you sound a little choppy. Can you speak up? I can hear you. For additional parking on the side of the building, because parking on this street is becoming more difficult. So I believe that shouldn't be a problem to park on the side of the house. Thank you. Ms. Ambassador, anybody else? Oh, no, ma'am. Thank you. Okay. Sorry, great. And just coming up and down. Doug and Jim, if you're looking to give testimony here, y'all get, they may be all sets, all right? Thank you. Okay. So given the planning perspective from the BPDA and the technical perspective from the Boston Transportation Department, I, you know, I think we should have that advise us in our decision making. So may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I also had concerns with the opening of the car doors. So I'm going to perform a motion to deny. Is there a second? I'll second that motion. I too, I'm in support. So the proposal has been denied. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling the OA 1301293609 Adam Street. This is to remove the existing one story seven foot by 22 foot addition, including brick and stone truss wall and replaced with a reinforced concrete foundation. New exterior walls and structural support name add a second floor to the new addition for a bathroom access for master bedroom. The violations article 65 section 9, the floor to the ratio is excessive and article 65 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. I grab reala is on. Let me. Hi, I'm on. Pat Fisher will be speaking. Okay. I'm doing the presentation. I'm mute. Okay. Pat, you're unmuted. Hello. Pat, if you're going to speak, you might need to unmute yourself. Her hand is raised. Yeah. So she I did send a request to unmute her. We try it again, but she should be able to unmute herself unless she's having issues. She might be having issues. Gabriella, did you just want to speak on this or to we figure out what's going on? Sure, we can do this. I'm Mike Solavando. I'm Gabriella's dad. And I'll be the contractor. We're. But exactly what you're planning and doing so we can understand it. Sure. Pat's here now. I'm mute. Oh, she's on the cell. So please unmute yourself on the cell. Pat, you need to if you're on the cell, you need to press star six to unmute yourself. Okay. Is that better? We can hear you now, Pat. I can hear you here. Yeah. All right. Sorry. We use the computer. But I think they're hearing you on both mics, the phone mic and the mic. Can you hear me now? Yes. Sorry. We use computers that have the AutoCAD software and we're not able to use them. Sorry about the confusion. So tell us what's being proposed. So it's not staying on you. All right. All right. Are you hearing help? We can't. We're sorry for the confusion here. We have two computers that we use in the other one and the drivers we've seen on the other. 699. Michael is Gabiela Somando. Michael Somando is renovating the house for his daughter. Yeah. Gabiela will be living in this house. She worked from home. She is a project engineer for a large technology firm, local to the Boston area. So it's a one family dwelling. Okay. Okay. So that helps bring clarity. So tell us. Is there, I think that we, the description is a little bit hard for us to understand. So tell us if they're, what the proposed additions are and tell us which plans to go to that are up on the screen that will most, most likely tell the story. Are they? We'll be the screener. Oh, they are. Okay. Let's see. Oh, sorry. Okay. Three. Three. Three. Okay. All right. So the existing house has a front porch that was converted at some point in time in the past. It's a one story front porch. We're removing that because we cannot put a second story edition on it. When we put the footprint, the front porch footprint back in, we would like to infill the areas that are in the hatch, not the, not the cross hatch, just a straight hatch. And basically what we'll do is we'll square off the front of the house. Okay. On the very front of the house. Sorry. Sorry. Let me ask you. How many squares? Refeeding that is that in total? All of the hatched areas. Yep. Okay. This is the first one. We'll be the additional 64 square feet. Altogether, 664. Okay. Thank you. Miss, Miss better. How are the plans? Yes. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition on this project? It's Madam Chair and members of the board. George Wynn with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office hosted an a butters meeting on February 9th. A butters were in support in the St. Mark's Area Civic Association also issued a letter of support. At the time of office, I'd like to defer a judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary, here we have that letter from the St. Mark's Association. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA Design Review on the exterior. Thank you. I'll second that motion. I too am in support, so you're all set, but that provides a good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Call in the next case. Calling B O A 124 5010 1224 Fort Street. This is the move to kitchen from the right side of the home and extend the front wide and forward to make it larger. Also to raise the roof on the second level with roof deck and sliding doors. The violation is Article 65 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. The Article 65 section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good evening. Hi, Ron Smith as well as my wife, BB Mercen Smith of 1224, Morton Street. We submitted the proposed plan on how our community meeting as well. The violations were in reference to the side yard and rear yard as he just stated. So, hold on, Mr. Smith, can you tell us which plans we should look at so we can clearly understand what you're proposing to do? Correct, ma'am. Sorry, because I did today. Because we had the plan? Yes, yes, because I had the plans change, do mainly do for one the violation as well as the initial change of the expansion we realized. So that's the front of a new proposed plan with the expansion roughly total of 13 feet from the existing now to the new plan that you have before you was 13 feet out as well as 19 feet, 13 by 19 feet. We initially expanded the 19 feet to the rear of the house equal level with the rear of the house and we learned that that was in violation through the architect. So we scaled back to 19 feet. So now the initial proposed plan before you is 19 feet wide by 13 feet. Okay, has this address come before the board before? You mean we had the butters meeting. No, but has the board of appeal looked at 1224 more than before? We're rookies. This is our first time. So I'm I'm excellent. Ma'am. Okay, and okay, we see the roof deck. How will the plans miss better? And I'm chair. The plans are adequate. I do have question regarding the existing basement and the proposal has it at the ceiling height of 6 foot 7 and you should have it. So I want to know if it's existing, if there's doing any kind of renovation because it says proposed basement, but you can see has a height of 6 foot 7, which is not adequate. So I just want to an explanation for that. Yeah, we're not doing anything to the basement. Good catch. Perhaps that's an error. What page are you on? Okay, so that's interesting. Yes, he's not doing anything to the basement. This is all initially interior as well as going exterior. Okay, got it. Thank you. Any other questions miss better? No, other than that, the plans are adequate. Okay, anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, yes. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board, Dr. P. P. Was here. The Mary's Office of Neighborhood Services, the applicant had a and a butters meeting run by on February 3rd, 2021, 2022. Sorry. And where support was shown by butters and then also there was a neighborhood association meeting with the Lower Mill Civic Association on February 15th, where the association gave verbal support, but I don't believe they were able to put in a letter, but I guess both support at their butters meeting and at the association. So at this time, the Mary's Office would like to defer to the judgment, the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you very much. Thank you. And they do have a raised hand. It's under neighbor. Can you state your name and ask for the record please? Sure, hopefully you can hear me. Yep. Okay, Schumane Benz 1107 Washington Street. Okay. Madam Chair, members of the board, I just would like to speak in favor of these recommended alterations to the Smith family home. They've been long standing members of the community. I do believe that these quality life improvements will further anchor his in his family's commitment to this community and anchor them to a larger extended family that also exists in the area. Mr Smith and his family have considered. Thank you. Thank you. Because you're having just being in a number of different areas with snow plowing and other other and other areas with a lot of information that his. Thank you very much. Mr. Masser, anybody else? I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA designer of you and without a building co-vallation. I'll second emotion. I too am in support. See, you're all set with those providers. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. You calling your next case? Calling the OAA128-973-338-Wellesley Park. This increased living area, renovation of an unfinished space on partially finished third floor, no structural or exterior changes. The violations article 65 section 9, the fluide ratio is excessive, and article 65 section 9, the building has excessive in stories. David Address for the record please. Paul Lassotto, 38-Wellesley Park. So please tell us what you're proposing to do? So we have an existing single-family home in Wellesley Park. My wife and I have lived here about 10 years. What would be considered the third story, which is co-oply would call an attic, has two finished rooms and then one unfinished gable. Can you tell us please which page is the best one to look at to understand what you're proposing to do? So it would be best to look at the, you're looking at existing conditions because we had to document that for the floor area ratio. I would go to the end and there should be a proposed plan. So right here that was actually a good plan to look at the first one. Go back one page please. This is existing conditions on our third floor shall we call it. You have the office, the bedroom, and then what would be classed is unfinished storage off to the lower right. You have a staircase coming up from the second floor. We go to the next page. You can see we'd like to finish off that unfinished storage space put in a bathroom above the other bath on the second floor and just finish it off with proper heating and cooling up there with heat pumps. So tell us an office one, an office two and in the bedroom, excuse me, what is the floor to ceiling height? She did not indicate the architect did not indicate it but we we have full ceiling height there of at least eight feet. Okay, how are the plans miss better? The plans are adequate. Okay, is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes Madam Chair, members of the Court. George Flynn with the mayor's office of Newbert Services. Our office hosted in the butters meeting for the proposal on February 15th. Butters in the Melville Park neighborhood association were in full support. At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. May I have a motion please? And I'm chair I'd like to put for a motion approval with BPDA design review paying special attention to the dormers and ex-chair. That's second that motion. Hi two of them in support. So you're all set. Good luck with that. Provise us a good luck. Thank you. Call on your next case. Call and be away 1 2 5 8 0 3 2 19 Webster Street. This is a change of optimal one family to a two family. The violation is Article 69 Section 9. The Laudier traditional dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 69 Section 9. Use of low-pitched space requirements insufficient. In Article 80 Section 80 E-2. Application of a small project review. So, I'm going to address for the record please. Natalie Fontanese 19 Webster Street. Tell us what you're proposing to do. So my proposal is to convert a single family dwelling into two. Okay and tell us how you're proposing to do that. So the building has been vacant for quite some time and each unit will have two separate means of egress and there will be a second. So there's two one first floor unit and the second floor unit will be a combination of the second floor and the third floor. Okay so it looks like what we're looking at right now is the first floor. It has two bedrooms. What's the what's the total square footage? I believe that roughly the total square footage for the first floor is roughly 12 1250 and the second is 15 just under 1700. 1700 and what's the floor ceiling height in the attic? The floor to ceiling height in the attic. I think we're about nine feet from that mistaken. Okay, let's see. Okay and what unit do you occupy? I would be occupying the first floor. Okay. How would the plans miss better? I don't care the plans are adequate. I just I have a question. Is there any exterior on the elevation, any modifications or is it purely interior with the additions of entry to allow for the second unit to exist? So the footprint of the property is not changing in any way shape or form. The only thing that's going to be added will be the second floor egress and that would be a deck on the side. That doesn't necessarily affect or it's not an extension. It's an exterior deck as a second form of egress. Thanks. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Secretary, I just wanted to ask Ms. Fontanette. You've got are you currently working on this building on a separate permit? Yes, so right now there's no working done. I mean, the process of hiring another contractor and you know, solidifying who's going to complete the work. Is it had the had the changes started without proper permits? Is that what it what it was? No. So originally I had a contractor because of COVID a lot of things got abandoned left unfinished. So I'm in the process of finding someone to complete the work. Okay. So the long form was pulled out. A long form permit was pulled in the initiation of the project. And this is a two F 5000 district. Tell us how many square footed one me square feet in this partial? So in the, let me just reference my notes here. So I guess respectfully, I would ask for variance because I am 760 square feet shy of what would naturally be requested in ward 18 for multi-unit dwelling. The interior of the house is just under 3000 square feet, but the exterior were at 7,250. I'm not mistaken. And I've done a little bit of research and in the area, there are other two families in high part. I guess who has the screen? Can you can you expand this folder a little bit? Distroying. Tell us while destroying is up how the parking is proposed to work. So the parking is proposed, but using an easement that was in the back. And I guess from my understanding, there is an easement from central lab to behind Webster that has been used during the construction of the, you know, over the course of the period I've had the property for two years now. To my knowledge, that easement is available to go in and out of the property. Okay. Okay. Is there anything else you want to add? Oh, no. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition of this proposal? Any comments that you put in the comment section is not in the record. So raise your hand if anybody's interested in speaking, please. Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. The community process was completed and in a butters meeting was held on February 15. During this meeting, one of butters did express support for the project while two other butters that were in attendance raised concerns and confusion about the legality of the easement, which is the driveway where 21 and 23 Webster Street currently park and how this being proposed as an entry point for 19 Webster Street would impact them following the meeting the applicant was instructed to connect with the concerned neighbors to provide clarification on that easement as well as provide plans for the project to a butters. We have three letters of opposition for this proposal and they have been sent to the board for review at this time we would like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have seven letters of opposition. No support. Thank you. And I'll start with Beth for the testimony. Even in meeting, can you state your name and address for the record please? Yes, my name is Beth Burlingame and I live at 21 Webster Street and my understanding we only allowed for opening up of the fence to allow the dumpsters to go in and out not for acknowledging that there would be any ongoing access only we agreed to it only to allow that to be kindly the neighborhood allow the dumpsters to go back and forth and it would affect our parking we have to parking spots as does our condo association neighbors and there's no way that cars could go through there and we would still have our off street parking which was part of what our understanding is and we have we have a deed that suggests that there's no a deesment. I have to tell the states. I want to know Ms. Fontanous we just need to hear from everybody and then we'll give you a chance to respond. In the meantime, any more raised hands, Ms. Ambassador? Catani Sumner go ahead. I don't see myself on the screen. Can you you don't want to see my face? My husband and I live at 23 Webster Street and we were not even aware that the request was not made to both of the condo association members about taking down the fence we would not have agreed to it and so it was just really not handled well and we've lived in that we've lived in our home for 11 years now and we spoke to the person who built the home and sold it to us and he said he has no record of any easing ever being there so yeah we're concerned about parking and the neighborhood is very much a single family primarily area and we're concerned and oppose it as changing even the parking situation the houses next to ours were on the corner they would be next to ours which would create an issue with parking closer to the corner and traffic congestion and it's just not set up for two families not that big and there's no yard if she takes it away for parking which is not possible thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you Mrs. Actually husband I know his hand was raised that's my husband yeah we got bumped yeah he would like to speak to him sure okay just want to make sure in a right place for testimony all right and then Valor yep that sent their request unmute you once you unmute it can you state your name and address for the record please hi Valorie okay think she might be all set I don't see your hand raised anymore and that's all we have for raised hands madam chair thank you my husband's hand was up he can't speak I think you spoke very eloquently on his behalf too you're good thank you and any so let's see Miss Fontanese oh well there's one more hand raised Miss Brown can you hear us Miss Brown I don't know if we have any connectivity issues but I tried to unmute you Miss Brown can you hear us okay yeah not we're not hearing anything as I'm not sure what's going on with her connectivity yeah I'm not sure what's going on with that her hand is raised but I can't we can't hear okay Miss Fontanese would you want to give us a quick a quick response yeah absolutely um so the easement I only found out about it because I went to the registry of deeds and I did the research for that area that property and it was set forth in 1918 to be exact and it was originally used for horse and carriage to be drawn items into the back from central street of Webster Street so I was informed about 45 minutes before this meeting by one of my neighbors that the legality that she shared with me about the easement so it's it existed to my knowledge it was something I could use we used it during the construction to move dumpsters in and out and it doesn't interfere with their parking it may not necessarily be the most comfortable but I'm in you know per the easement it's eight feet from central to the back of Webster so you know what I think Miss Fontanese is that there seems to be we we see this fairly frequently that that there needs to be more work between you and your neighbors you may want to hire some um somebody to help you with the legal front so that you know exactly what your access issues are okay um if I need madam chair yeah so my other my other um concern here that is if if I don't use the easement I'm still within the amount of space required to have a two family dwelling so let me just say this to you that your violations may change if the if the easement is not in play and when we see a project we need to see it pretty well baked as far as all the you know information that we need in place to make a land use decision and and I feel from my perspective there are a few um pieces that are dangling out there okay so may I have a motion for denial without prejudice please madam chair I'd like to prefer a motion of denial without prejudice I will second that motion I too am in support so this gives you a chance to go back really hire the kinds of technical support that you need and talk to your neighbors so this can mature in in a positive way so what are the next steps because the project I had for over two years okay hold on can you talk to Tom um once you get Tom will you talk to Miss Fontaness please um so that she can figure out her next steps okay thank you I'll reach out after tomorrow thank you okay so he'll reach out to you okay calling your next case calling B O A 128 2898 80 podra street this is a renovation of first unit in conversion from a single family to a two family residence demo the interior and roof and rebuild with an addition the violations article 69 section 9 the fluida ratio is excessive article 69 section 9 sidejads insufficient and article 69 section 9 the rear yard is insufficient name and address for the record please hi good evening um madam chair and members of the board I'm an avian smart conservator no representing miss Gladys um freeas for this project miss Gladys freeas have been part of the community for many years and have served and she had lived in in this house for many years and have a son that would like to have him be part of of that building which is the reason what she wanted to convert it to a family we went or in front of the of the a border's meeting and everybody was in oh miss miss miss the severina please tell us exactly what's being proposed yes so we are proposing the Teasing House currently the setbacks um fall you just got muted yes yes I know I noticed that so the Teasing House fall within the side and and rear the setbacks fall into into the Teasing structure so by adding a second floor he he buys basically triggers the non conformity on on those two sides um so we are basically following the same footprint of the Teasing structure and and basically adding up a front porch as a very appeal of the of the building okay so tell us what the size of them first unit would be on the on the bottom floor yes the size of the second unit yes so the first unit I actually did the math because I noticed madam chair you you were asking the questions the first unit would be uh 1776 square feet and the second unit would be 16 hundred square feet okay and is there any occupancy proposed for the basement? uh yes to currently um will be using as a uh gym area and I believe uh one bedroom that has a egris window um access as a the call requires okay and what's the floor the ceiling height in there a fee and uh in the basement in the basement I believe it is let me see the floor plans because I don't have access to it from there uh I know the first second and attic space will be a fee the basement based on my elevation would be I believe it will be seven feet ten inches but I don't have it in my elevations currently madam chair okay and tell us about that bedroom that what's the floor to sell height in the bedroom? it will be seven feet ten inches madam chair no I'm saying floor to the windowsill what is the the distance oh yeah right now the detail is shown as 44 inches uh maximum okay and what's the floor to ceiling height in the attic? in the attic is eight feet madam chair how would the plans miss better and from chair the plans are adequate um it's better other utility separate I'm having a hard time um and there's a lot of going on here yeah the utilities well let's ask the architect are you utilities yeah they they are separate the first floor uh yeah so the first floor unit it's on the on the basement I believe is in the basement let me see if I yeah there's one in the basement at the rear yeah that's that's for the first unit correct? yep yeah and then the attic is to blind the second floor okay and then tell us about that circular stairwell? yeah so that that's that was actually a request from a madam um Gladys Freias she actually had that that law for for that look aesthetic look um and she actually wanted it to be able to access die space there on on the attic so which is the version why we incorporated it into the design oh I see okay um so the plans are adequate miss better right yes okay is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening madam chair members of the board Danielle Fonseca mayor's office in neighborhood services the applicants for 48 or excuse me for 80 poigustry completed the community process within a butters meeting that I hosted and this was on February 17th they received full support from neighbors um miss Gladys also presented the proposal to the Bell Nell family neighborhood association which she is also an active member on their associations board um and she received full support and a letter of support which has been sent to the board at this time we should refer to the board for judgment thank you good evening madam chair members of the board Jordan Freys here for councilor Ricardo Royals office we want to come on record and supporter of this proposal thank you madam chair secretary here we have three letters of support okay do you have a raised in and um Helena I sent a request to unmute you once unmuted can you state your name and address for the record please thank you Helena Tong 20 friendship road high park good evening madam chair members of the board I like to offer approval support as a resident and president of Bell Nell family neighborhood association excuse me for miss isrius's project miss isrius is a longstanding resident of our community and a board member of our association and her project proposals no direct impact the direct the butters or the community and we wish your success with her project thank you madam chair no additional raise stand at the moment Jordan are you still on yes i'm still here Jordan are you related to the applicant oh sorry about that no actually miss gladis fears and I am not related at all we just wanted to make sure okay no problem sorry no worries is so i'm ready for emotion may i have emotion please madam madam chair I like to put for emotion of approval with bpda design review to pay special attention to the spirals their way the exterior material and also the size of the dormer okay so it's the stay away the dormer and what else i'm sorry and exterior material okay i'll second that motion i too am in support so you're all set but those provisos good luck thank you so much calling the next case calling b o a 1 2 8 8 9 8 9 160 Austin street this is still at a second floor addition which includes a can't to leave in one foot over two long sides of the current residents overhanging deck on the backside of 23 by 5 long and 2 by 1 wide and squaring off the corner of the front left side of the house to add an additional living space corner approximately the size of 5 by 2 the violations article 69 section 9 the front yard is insufficient article 69 section 9 side yard is insufficient name and address for the record please leave it's mr. power i see his name okay mr. power power power right once again david center requests to unmute you once unmuted can you let's see you hi david can hear us i know we have some issues with them earlier trying to make them a panelist say can you come out okay now oh yeah okay david and jazzo yes okay go ahead so this 160 Austin's great night park must it use a serietude one traces and my name is jazzo and david is completely on an emergency call no business okay so please describe to us what you're planning on doing we would like to add a second addition to add to our living space the second floor would include a bedroom large master bedroom a small bedroom and a master bathroom and as well a balcony okay and so your your violations are two simple violations appear to be the one i think i'm concerned about is the side yard what is your your side yard from the building line to your property line and what's required my code i believe it is five feet right now and i believe the code says ten feet we are very friendly with our neighbor so we have the support of everything on one of them currently between our house and the fence there is the vegetable garden okay but and so between the wall of your building and the wall of your abouters building what's the distance between between it is five and a half feet so if so it's no it's got to be more between so it's between your wall and the neighbor's wall oh yeah from our house to the property line it's between five and seven feet I'm sorry I don't know that in me okay i'm just trying to figure out how close they are to the property line um because just because we need to protect their rights too in some ways you change in you change oh yeah i was going to ask are you changing the footprint at all i know that you're you're i know that you're going up but are you are you changing the footprint of the actual house is not the change okay there are hoping to add a camp believer on the second floor on the both long sides on each side okay um how would the plants miss some better madam chair the plants are fine you know the one drawing that we need that is missing is a surveyed top plan we do have that and i did submit that as well i submitted a the way it is right now and a proposed partner as well the only thing we really are changing is if you're looking at the picture where it's up on the screen right now if you're looking at the middle graph on the left hand side where is this actually perfect like that there is a blue line where it says 11 and 7, 8 you see that blue line that little corner we are hoping to square off okay and and was this in the plans when you submitted them to ISD to begin with yes okay good okay um so miss better you comfortable with the plans besides the other one the black line correct transfer adequate is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal yes good evening madam chair members of the board this is Danielle Fonseca of Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services the applicants did complete the community process and i hosted in a butters meeting that was held on February 23rd um they did receive um support from one of the butters that was on the meeting for not only uh them as neighbors but for the proposal itself our office has not directly received any letters of support or opposition from this proposal um we'd like to defer to the board for judgment thank you madam chair secretary here we have one support letter thank you madam chair i have no raised hands may i have a motion please madam chair i'd like to put forward a motion of approval with bpda design review on the exterior and also to for the applicant to ensure that a plot plan was submitted okay i'll second that motion i too am in support so you're all set for that proviso um and if you could please forward a plot plan um just just for insurance purposes okay how can i do that if i'm a ask i'm chair this is this is tom looking at ISD's file on this one and they do have a plot plan submitted for 26 hopper and i sent it to miss uh for aza great thank you okay excellent and this is to end that it's just 160 Austin 160 Austin oh well i'm gonna make let me double check now when i apologize i was looking at the wrong jumping ahead a bit huh apparently i'm sorry i can also drop this off tomorrow i mean i know it was submitted as the plans but yeah i mean if we have it then everything's good and i think we need to buy tomorrow more than happy to okay and thank you madam chair and the board thank you and everything as well thank you to demiel thank you so hold on one minute um let's just make sure tom or tom can give you a buzz if we need it okay let's leave it at that okay thank you following the next case calling the oa 128 3265 26 hot on street this to create a true room office space with half bath and interior of an existing garage windows and exterior door are pre-existing and this is accessory office use the violation tactical 67 section 8 accessory office uses have been name and address for the recta please hello my name is marian simano and i'm at 26 hot thern street so that's what's being proposed the proposal is to take part of our existing garage the rear part and create a office space there with two rooms um nothing in the exterior building would change so is this a single family yes and who would use that office my husband and i and do you park in the garage currently we do not the garage is actually uh we can access it with our vehicles i see okay um and you're not changing anything on it it's just the interior layout right exactly we're playing on replacing the current door with a with a different door but and that it will be exactly the same as it is okay and do you have customers of visitors coming to your office space um currently i do not i would in the future with with COVID safety things like to in the future have visitors come so i i think i think what what we would be concerned about is with your visitors how would it impact your neighbors um having them and if you would anticipate any evening on night uses of that space of that office space i couldn't anticipate some evening use um definitely not night use um and we have a there's lots of public parking on the street we also would not be uh i would not be having like multiple people come at any time so it's basically one on one consultation in other words okay okay um how would the plans miss better and attempt the plans are adequate i do have a question regarding the garage if if you can access the garage what is it being used right now it's currently just use a storage okay and we have we let the kids ride their bikes around in there okay um given that information is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition anything madam chair members of the board my name is ujianoji and i am the razzindalee is on with the mayor's office um we conducted an abehad meeting for this project on what they was in in february um a lot of the concerns for neighbors revolved around um just how this may become a commercial space in the future potentially my office did receive one letter of opposition and we will defer judgment on this party to the board thank you madam chair secretary here we do have that one letter and that was the concern and madam chair do you have a raise tan on bobby can you state your name and items for the record please uh robert mirad uh 24 hot on street um on the direct neighbor we have a shared drive way um we did have the neighborhood meeting um their work concerns about the layout and the original drawing uh with uh a lounge area it was stated it was just going to be for personal office use at that time um now it seems like we're going into a commercial use which um would upset the fabric of this neighborhood i believe there's a lot of young kids in this neighborhood and uh our driveway is a shared driveway we're going to be concerned about that use um so those are my oppositions and um if the use of the garage is um is probably um used for just an office space and not um a commercial zoned area in this neighborhood here may i mention i have no additional raise tans hey yeah respond yeah please so i have been looking into the zoning on this for exactly this question because when my neighbor is raised to concern of a commercial space i want to be very clear and what that meant um i was my understanding is that the previous owners of our property were using the garage to service vehicles which um was i'm assuming disruptive to folks um i have a very small private practice as psychotherapist and my understanding is that it's completely within zoning under article 10 to be able to have uh private practice from your home yes it would be from your home but this is not like in your home i mean that's that's what kind of triggers a different a different kind of review because it is in your garage um but um i don't know what the parking is like on Hawthorne is there adequate on street parking for your visitors yeah we live very close to Rosendale Village in the train many people park on our street for commuters so what i'm asking is that if you had a client in is there how disruptive would it be to your neighbors to have that plus in park on the street i do not believe that it would be disruptive we have people who are not in the neighborhood park on the street regularly okay um Hansi do you know the street no i'm not yeah um okay so let's just um see okay so it's time for a motion um i think one to this petitioner only um for that um for that use um what are there any other conditions that might protect the abutters on this um and Hansi or um a mark yeah madam chair and you know obviously i think what happened in the past with an honor we care um you know things are gonna happen yeah that's history yeah right um it's tough to gauge what's your point where it's not actually a livable space it's gonna be come on office um you know i i'm looking at it you know i'm building there there is parking um i really don't know how you be able to really set any other parameters to it i think you hit it you know as far as that's concerned okay okay so um some motion so what do you think a motion for approval because the um accessory office is a forbidden use so um so do you think to this petitioner only yes okay i'm going to and um Hansi is that you yeah go ahead sorry go ahead i i'm i'm moving towards not supporting that motion um but someone needs to call that motion okay so what's what's there's some my hesitations is that it would it would really be commercial use and it just sets up precedent um and then what is to what is not to then provoke that separate structure then being expanded upon into other uses in the future so my my sense is um we have to think of it as a commercial use um because it's not existing in a home and um and so i will lean against that motion but someone can put that motion forward may ask a clarifying question um well only if something is going to um clarify what's going on please just make it short i'm curious about if i were to if i were to see clients in my existing home with that be problematic it would suddenly be different um if you had it in your home versus in a garage where you know it sets a whole different other set of things in motion um because because there is the possibility that and and the fear for neighbors is that that would be expand the office space would be expanded on in a different way than it would be if it was in your house so it's just a free slope concern let's see exactly so um this um better um what and and um mr fortune wanted we go ahead with a motion because i do think um absolutely there's there's value in the thought of thinking about it as the creeping in of commercial uses in a residential neighborhood i would agree i mean it's this this hunt mr arasant wants to make the motion and you got it for up or for a motion of denial i will second it hi to him in support um so it's been denied we we look forward to a different application from you okay thank you thank you calling your next case calling the o a one two eight one three eight one ninety nine to one a franklin street this is a move of a viso branch to this owner and occupant only and change dogs from a single family without accessory use mix use to to a two family with office accessory use in one retail the violation dotical 51 sex and 16 true dwelling units is a conditional use in an LC dash five sub districts may be an adjunct for the record please oh and mac 47 all these street in allston mr mac tells us being proposed uh so i purchased this building from my former neighbor who uh resided and worked out of the building ran his business out of this building uh and was last before the board in 94 i believe it was 94 maybe 96 uh so i purchased this building a year ago from his estate he sadly passed away and uh i'm trying to uh uh get a variance to uh make the building conform with the way it's actually been used for last number of years he built out a uh second rental unit residential unit back in 2010 uh not permitted uh legal and uh otherwise uh renders this is that year please no no value judgment just yeah i'm gonna tell us exactly what's being proposed okay i'm proposing i'm proposing to only change the uh the occupancy of the space basically you're proposing to change the occupancy then to two units unit one which is and and they're both proposed to be purely residential uses no artists live walk or anything like that uh unit two i'm uh uh requesting office accessory use um could be our accessory use but office accessory use and unit three is a commercial space our gallery retail which is uh allow me write 834 and unit three and how how big and unit three the commercial space is 615 square feet and that would be um commercial use correct okay and that slop sync what is that uh literally a slop sync a stainless steel so that that's related to the commercial use or to the residential use it's a utility room that is commonly accessible to both unit three and unit two as the panel for unit two resides in that room so that is common area okay um and you know it's been a little while since um i was on franklin are these windows floor two pretty much floor to ceiling windows or how have they been treated in the meantime uh there's a commercial building next door that has essentially floor ceiling windows um this building has uh now uh you can see on the plan if you go up uh there's a two infant stores that are just standard commercial doors maybe 36 inch wide and you can see one two three windows that are no not floor to ceiling they're smaller done maybe back in the 70s i want to stay there like five foot by floor foot maybe okay and did i notice that for unit one the kitchenettes and the basement that is correct okay are you proposing i'm maintaining that or bringing it up and making it like a decent unit uh i am proposing to leave the units as they are um the basement has been uh uh dug down to increase ceiling height to nearly eight feet and uh yeah my proposal is to essentially leave the building as is i'm just trying to get approval for the way it has been essentially broken up for the last 10 or 12 years and um um um now i don't know who's running the screen today uh can you go to the next page and show us what's happening in the basement well so these these drawings are essentially existing conditions um so i'm not making a proposal at this point to modify the building uh what's happening right now is uh unit one has its own uh you know basement that kitchenette from a slundry back there and uh unit uh there's a storage area essentially underneath the other two that um will need uh in the future uh a stairwell or at the moment the access the entire basement is through unit one and in fact the entire basement is rented to the rented it's been rented back to the former owners so it's a little bit in process no so so let me get some clarity so so unit one has access to the entire basement then that's correct okay and is there a plan to do to at some point um provide individual access to the basement to unit two uh in the future i would like to do that but uh as i mentioned i purchased the building about a year ago uh it is still full of the previous owners materials his grandson is living in unit one and uh i am uh i've been just doing a lot of preventive maintenance to bring the building uh to stop all the leaks etc etc so in the long term a longer term hopefully next year to uh the basement will be cleared of personal effects of previous owner and i can go before the board again and uh set this up properly just know in the event that you plan anything else that it looks like the basement might be entirely underground that this board is not uh does not look kindly at basement living so just for your future reference how are the plans miss better answer um okay okay no i there's a bit of me that feels a bit uncomfortable but got it is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal yes madam chair members of the board Connor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time the mayor's office would like you to throw judgment to the board some background information on the community process the applicant went before the all-sensitive association received strong support um you know it's it's the ACA's letter uh you know reports this property has been kind of unique on Franklin Street for extended period of time and they were excited that you know someone's taking ownership of this building and making the improvement on the parsing aid to be improved upon uh the applicant also circulated the flyer and received a number of letters of support from the butters also expressing strong support and those were forward to the board you guys should have those on record okay um thank you uh Tom may i ask uh Tom may i ask you a question in the meantime um to look at what the provisor was if you can because i vaguely remember this project but i don't remember the details of it yeah madam chair i did i did i did look around i did look at the decisions for 1994 um the provisor was relief to this applicant only with respect to the art studio and then the dpda designer view it was biair a designer good at the time but yep yep okay okay because and then 1990 okay okay you might have been here madam chair i was sadly i mean encouragingly i was there at that time madam can we do have seven letters of support as well yep um probably probably wrote the bpda decision on it too um so okay anybody else to speak on this okay may i have a motion please madam chair i'd like to forward a motion of approval i'll second that motion i too in support so you're all set good luck and if we see you hopefully there's no occupancy living space in the basement okay thank you madam chair i got to go back to a case i called early a case b o a one two nine nine two nine seven one forty nine h street is h street on is there a sign and it's just two of this is it James and Martha and Kenneth Kenneth Wood so somebody representing one forty nine h street no well madam chair i'll make a motion for denial without prejudice it's now six thirty six second my two men support so it's been denied with that prejudice thank you everybody and we'll see you enjoy it's enjoy school vacation week and we'll see you the week after happy used to be all