 you you you you th as We are in none then. Actually the first case that we were here for last case in the time period. That is case B08153. Time to 1 7 with the address of 116. Every street. I believe a fairly small group of representatives. Yes, I am. All right, please proceed. So good morning Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of 20 darks small. I have a business address of 51.0. With me today is Mr. Jim Chen, who is the art project architect. Today we are here seeking relief to change the legal occupancy from the building. From two family to a three family dwelling. The money sub district here is of 3 F 5,000. Our size is 5,100 square feet. Our zoning violations are as follows. Front yard setback requirement is 15 feet. We are proposing a 10 foot setback with the modal. Side yard violation of the requirement is 10 feet. We have 8 feet on the left hand side. And these are open space is 400 square feet per unit. We have approximately 270 per unit. With regard to units themselves, Madam Chair, units are 3 bedroom to bed. And are approximately 1000 square feet. We'll can stop there and open it up to any questions that the board may have. That sounds good. Thank you Mr. Small. Any questions from the board? I'm going to take public testimony. Good. Can you guys can you guys hear me? Yes, we can. Mr. Hi guys. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, the applicant for 116 Evan Street had their of butters meeting on September 26, 2023. They also spoke with the Rock neighborhood association, and they also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. They also talked to you. They also spoke with the staff member of the board. They also spoke with the staff members of the board. And a conference will be crucial if volleyball is completed. As it relates to notifying rock neighborhood association, as soon as the Union has become available before advertising. They would like the MOU to be done before the work begins. They would like the neighborhood association to be notified of pop priority availability before those properties are advertised. and the board. My name is I am the one we owe the office of City Council. And in regards to this project having received no letters of support or opposition, we'd like to offer our support. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Attorney Small, would you like to address the request from Rock and GM and see? Sure. We have been working diligently throughout this process with the Abutters and members of the Rock Association and those are not even issues for us. We will continue to work with them once the units become available. Yeah, so that's not a problem. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing done may have a motion. I'll make a motion to approve with BFTT design review. Madam second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Lowe. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I'll be dead. And before we proceed, just a reminder that we are a six-member board of the board. Any applicant who wishes to request an administrative deferral may do so, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. Move the bonds to your case, be aware. One five four. Zero four eight nine. The address of 26 new board of street. If the applicant has a representative of his presence, is there explain to the board of the board? Members of the board, my name is Hilding Rosa. I'm a design and construction with business status to where this exposure has been milked. And I present this application on behalf of the owner. The existing dwelling is a single family home located at a two family five thousand square feet zone. The proposed alteration is to change the occupancy from single family to a two family dwelling. The scope of working balls and addition of food doors on each side to create a second unit on the second and third floor. It also includes additions at the front and rear renovation of front and rear purchase to accommodate the units and extension of living space into the museum. The existing single family home has a total one thousand six hundred fourteen square feet. With the proposed change of use, the new unit one will have a total one thousand one hundred and forty five square feet between the lower level and the first floor. With one bedroom one four five bathrooms. And unit two will have a total one thousand five hundred and thirty one square feet between the second floor and the third floor with five bedroom three bathrooms. When the application was made at the applicant, you see the refusal letter with a total of eight violations of the completed system and the assembly process. Most of these violations came up to the pre existing nonconforming conditions. I will walk through the violations shortly, but basically most of these are because we are adding the doors and the additions within the same building perimeter. The first violation is the lot area of the four hundred and eighty seven square feet. The second violation is additional lot area in sufficient. The requirement is three thousand. The proposal is two thousand four hundred and forty three square feet. The third violation is floor area ratio is excessive. The requirement is point five. The application is 0.4 and what is being proposed is 0.6 for FAR. The building height is excesses in stories. It requires two and a half. That is what allowed in the area. That is what is existing and we are proposing three stories. With a total of 33 feet high, which is the existing. The next violation is the open usable space insufficient. The requirement is area is one thousand seven hundred and fifty. The existing is one thousand five hundred and eighty square feet. And what is being proposed for a unit is seven hundred and ninety square feet. The next violation is the insufficient, which is an existing non-conforming condition. The allow in the area is twenty feet. The existing is nine feet nine inches and it is the same and the same proposed nine feet nine inches. This side yard specifically on the left side. It is another one of the other violations. What is requiring the area is ten feet. The existing is four feet three inches and because of the dormers' additions, what is being proposed is the same setback three four feet three inches. And the last one, the rear yard side insufficient as well. The what is being required in this area is forty feet. The existing is thirty two feet nine inches and it is the same dimension what is being proposed. Thirty two feet nine inches. This is all I have to share with you for now. I am open for the board. Any questions? Thank you very much. Any questions from the board? Hearing that may I have public testimony. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The corner, new and with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Some background information in the community process on as host and a butters meeting on November 29th. The outcome was on to answer several questions from residents regarding some specifics with the project as well as the possible construction timeline. Our office is unaware of any serious concerns this time and with that we will defer to the board. Thank you. Mr. Newman. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Diana Brodzuk from Councillor Enrique Peppin's office. The Councillor would like to go in record that he supports this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may I have a motion. A motion to approve with BBDA design review. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Canato. Yes. Chair also looks just motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Have a good day. Next we have case B.O.A. 153-9221 with the address of 246-R Park Street. It's the applicant and will there represent a person to explain the case in court? Yes. My name is Ivan Hernandez. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm speaking on behalf of the homeowner fully project. The proposal is to replace an existing two-car garage that was in the backyard. There was a pretty tough condition had to be demolished because it was a hazard condition. And replace it with a new two-car garage. The new garage would be a little bigger than the existing garage. And it would be side by side two-car parking with a storage space above if... If you look here at the plot plan. The entrance to the garage actually faces the side. The easement on the side yard. They would drive and take the left into the garage. We would have two cars side by side with the stairs going up to a storage space above. The current garage was a same shape by a cable roof side by side but substantially smaller and really could not accommodate two car garage. So since the homeowner is replacing it and he figured it would go with a bigger, more comfortable garage that would allow him to get in the car. The vehicle is comfortably. That's pretty much the scope of work. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing that, you had... Yes, can you talk about the violations? The violations that were set back violations. We are actually setting the garage in the same location of the previous garage. So those might be considered existing pre-existing conditions. And then the height would be a new violation. We are going a little higher with the garage as... Because we are accommodating the storage space above. So the required height is the maximum height of our 15 feet and we are going up to 20 feet in order to accommodate, like I said, storage and comfortable space for storage above. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor, you went to Mary's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mary's Office deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back-of-patient community process. Oh, and I saw some of the butters meeting on November 21st. The applicant then went on to meet with the West Rocksbury neighborhood council, which voted on November 28th to support this proposal. Yeah, and this, like, without a deferred to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any other offices? Okay, Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Any other office members? Yes, Madam Chair, I have no raise hands. Would that be a motion? A motion approved. Now the second? Okay. That's correct. Mr. Sembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Lowell? Yes. Mr. Hagen? Yes. Ms. Panato? Yes. Chair, I also vote yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 153-0397. The address of 125 residents road. It's the applicant and will there represent the current two-point in case of the board? Sorry, I just arranged in here once again. Hi. Hi. Morning, everyone. My name is Kaushia and the architect for 125 Red Land Road. So this project is interior layout change only. What we plan to do is turn the ethics base into some living area. As you can see on the plan, we have two study areas here. And then again, there is no exterior or scope in this application. Every city is interior. The FBR is the same. So this is basically the scope. I think this is pretty straightforward. Feel free to ask me if you have any questions about this application. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in Dunham, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. The Clawon or Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment of this board. So back information in the community process. ONS hosted in the butter's meeting on November 13th. Some neighbors have expressed questions about whether some work was already being done on the property, as well as questions that this would end up being rentals or condos. The applicant then went on to meet the West Rocksbury Neighborhood Council on November 28th. And I believe they were supported by the Neighborhood Council, without deferred to the board. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Okay, and I have no additional raised hands. Okay, but that may have motion. I'll motion or approve. I have a second. Second. Mr. Stemperage? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Lowell? Yes. Mr. Eakin? Yes. Mr. Pennato? Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good. Thank you. Thank you so much. Have a good day. Next, we have case POA 153 5026 with the address of 2250. The address is the applicant and the representative. Thank you, Mr. Stemperage. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney John Pogini. I'm here on behalf of the applicant, which is Rockland Trust Bank. This branch of the bank is located at 2250, do I just have to add in lower mills? The zoning district is neighborhood shopping, and a lot size is 9,454 square feet. Rockland Trust is looking to renovate this existing branch bank at 2250, do I just have a full interior branch renovation plan in order to modernize the existing branch space as well as bring the facility into ADA compliance. This new branch represents a major commitment by Rockland Trust and their do I just have to customers in community. Rockland currently has an existing drive up drawer in window as well as a drive up AETM at this location. The Rockland proposes to replace the drawer in window with a nomadic tube further back on the building and construct a two lane drive up canopy structure to incorporate both an AETM and a nomadic tube. With the new drive up lanes, Rockland Trust seeks to address both traffic and pedestrian concerns. And the reason for that is presently more than two or three vehicles parked in queue. It can extend into the sidewalk and it can actually get on to Deutsche Strav. So in order to undertake this project, we pushed it back. In addition to this, Rockland will allow this branch to undergoing construction. They'll move a temporary branch to 67 Richmond Street, which is the adjacent property to this again neighborhood shopping, which is in as directly behind this branch. And the temporary branch will be utilized during the renovation time frame at Deutsche Strav. The ISD initially decided that's for Austria parking. That was in the state. We had 10 spots under the code we only need five. Use a drive up is not allowed, however, as I'm here, one already exists. So we're just pushing it back further to make it more pedestrian safe. They had us as a rear yard, which is a 20 foot recline. We're actually at 25 feet and screening, putting a fence and budding a residential sub district. The BPD recommendation addresses those mistakes in the zoning violation. There's proclosal going to a full community process, 100% support of the avutors, and unanimous support of low-email civic association. At the end of the day, it's all about just adding a drive up lane and pushing them further into the property so they're not able to interfere with traffic and pedestrian safety. Thanks for allowing us to present this. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ross Krakow and Mayor's Office of the Memberhood Services. Our office can confirm that the proponents have completed the community process at this time with an avutors meeting being held in November of 2023. There was one avutor in attendance who supported the project, likewise the local civic association has a letter of support on file. At this time, we'd like to defer to this board's judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Curley, are you? Madam Chair, Madam Chair, members of the board, Amanda Curley, Councilor of the State of the Office, we'd like to honour our cadets of board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jill McGatgren, City Councilor Armarfee's office, a way to grow records of court. Thank you. And I have no additional raised stance. Okay. Just one last question, Mr. Virginia. The P.K.A. recommendations commented on curb cuts, curb cuts with any comment on that? Yes, we're going to just use the existing curb cut. Madam Chair, it's kind of a unique situation to the, if you're looking at the building to the right is Pat's pizza, we're just kind of a very famous place in Lower Mills. And they share a curb cut and is a fence down the, a median script that comes down the side of it. So it is kind of broken into two, two different entrances. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? I'll give a room with B.P.D.A. Designer of the Office. Yeah, the second. Back in. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Logue? Yes. Ms. Aiken? Mr. Aiken? Yes. Yes. Ms. Fennado? Yes. Chair also, Mr. Jess? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam. Next, we have case B.O.A. 151-257-5. The address of 115 Adams Street. The Aloncantan building representative of the present, the Mayor's point is boardwork. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancy. Business address of 168 H Street, First floor, South Boston. I just want to bring to your attention that was the question I was going to ask just so I wanted to ensure that you guys had the correct plans because I know what was registered as far as the advertisement. It was the original set of plans as well as the B.P.D.A. recommendation. But it seems like that you guys do have the correct set of plans in front of you, so I'm going to proceed. With me today is the owner, John Reddington, as well as the architect, Tim Johnson. This is a proposal to raise the existing structure and erect a new three-story nine-unit residential dwelling with 11 parking spaces located within a 3 FD 3000 sub-district on approximately about 8,071 foot long. The building will be all electric, meeting the stretch energy code of 20% more efficient. Further, all units will have accessibility access by an elevator. Property is located at the end of a residential block, a budding-roaring park. The erection of a multi-family dwelling is in line with the planning goals of increasing the city's housing stock. There is also precedent for the proposed scale and use of the building in the surrounding area, specifically to mention the apartments directly across the street. Applicant understands the need to create more home ownership opportunities, and even though not required to do so, has committed to enter into an agreement with the office of housing to offer one unit as affordable. All units will be on the occupied. Ground floor will consist of parking for 11 cars, as well as trash storage. Floors 1, 2, and 3 will mimic each other to contain two bedrooms and one free bedroom on each floor ranging from approximately 1135 square feet. The three units on the third floor will have an exclusive use roof decks, access by hatch. We have four violations. Use as we're proposing nine units in the sub-district. Additional water area code requires 1,500 square feet per additional dwelling. And this proposal calls for approximately 900 square feet per additional. For area ratio, we are proposing a 1.6 and a 1.3 is compliant, which is consistent within the neighborhood. High 40 feet is what the reason required by the code. The building itself is 40 feet, but there is a violation due to the North Steer headhouse for access to the mechanicals. The proposed height is consistent with the contextual heights of the surrounding buildings. In the neighborhood, the impacts of the height are mitigated by the proposal's location at the base of the retaining wall below Ronin Park. At this point, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. I don't need to answer any questions from the board. I'm Ben Chair. Your words or comments from the Disco is there any? Please recon to the record. Well, they stated that there is no accessible apartment. I'm sorry. There is no accessible route from either the common space spaces of the individual units to the roof of the house. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, would you like to explain the BPD recommendation if you're present? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm support of the BPD. Our recommendation was based on 12 units in not 9. I don't think that's the right answer. I don't think that's the right answer. I don't think that's the right answer. I don't think that's the right answer. I don't think that's the right answer. I don't think that's the right answer. We were based on our recommendation on 12. If the board does seem to approve this, we just ask that we can keep the context of triple-tector architecture. Thank you. Mr. Spitz, before I proceed, do you want to address the disability commission comments? Yes, so it is fully accessible as we do have an elevator. I'm going to have to defer to Tim Johnson's here with us. Can you speak more relative to the access way for the roof decks? Yes, Tim Johnson, Madam Chair. These are not common roof decks, Madam Chair. These are dedicated to each unit. It wouldn't per code common areas do need to be accessible, but these are private roof decks. And those would not need to be accessible. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The Mayor is obviously to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process. I know we've had some personnel changes, but I understand that multiple community meetings were held by ONS. A number of residents expressed concerns regarding height and proposed density. The use being blocked due to its proximity to the nearby Ronin Park, as well as concerns regarding parking. The back-end has a large parking ratio. The concerns that we heard in the community were also echoed by the greater Bowdoin Geneva Neighborhood Association as well. With that, we'll defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. Amanda Carly, Councilor Fitzgerald's office. We'd like to go on our second support. How many say you looking to witness the money here? I see your Aunt Lisa Harrison. Don't think so. Sorry to go. I'm sorry. Are you looking at the proposal? Good morning. Members of the zoning board. Yes, I'd like to get testimony regarding the 115 atoms addressed. I'm not sure if people understand where this nine unit reduced from 12 units is located. It's right next to Ronin opposite three triple-deckers and further away from the triple-deckers are two units that I think have six family housing, six family housing, and they have parking in the back. So when you put now on this very small land, this nine unit reduced from 12 with 11 parking spaces on Adam Street, a busy street next to a park. I'm concerned about the safety. Now you want to raise it. You know, you're this building is going to accept the landscape. It's I don't see how it blends into nine units on a I don't see how it blends into what is currently there. And the other thing about parking and safety. If you're having owner occupied owner spaces and people are coming over, they have friends and you have nine units. How how how is it safe right now? I'm sorry, you muted yourself. I'm not sure if you muted yourself, Mr. Harrison. Sorry, I live right next to it. And so the only pull-ins are across the street and next to Ronin part. Okay, please wrap up. Sorry, I don't know how many I oppose it for a whole bunch of different reasons right before the guy died. There was a smaller building and it was appropriate. And now this developers coming in with this very densely designed building. Thank you, Mr. Harrison. Thank you. I have the original questions. Oh, I'm sorry, too too to pop up on your tiny side. I don't know how many people are going. Okay, yes. Oh, right. Cat. Yes, hi. How are you? Can you give me some name and address? Sure. I'm a I live on Stanton Street. My name is Kat. I live right actually right in front of where any of the construction is going to be going on for the condo building. I'm in opposition of this as well. I would like this only more to adhere to article 65 and section 9. There is a lot of history that is on the street. It is a very calm street. I don't feel comfortable having units built, especially when I know that the affordable housing is probably not actually going to be taking place. I was actually in housing for about six to seven years. Are you going to speak to 115 atoms or for 43 or 45 Stanton Street? 43 to 45. Okay, we're not on that case yet. So please stay tuned. Also next, the caller. Yep. I'm Neenie Otto. Body. Are you looking to get testimony on this proposal? I sent a request on you if you are. Okay. I'm sorry. There's a little. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I have no additional race. Okay. No worries. With the applicant like to respond to those issues and concerns. Yes. Madam Chair. So I just I would like to just remind the board that this property is located at the end of a residential block of building rolling a rolling park. The site is a blight's sore as it is stands now. And I do want to remind the board that that we are in line with increasing the city's housing stock will provide these additional units. And a big component is where the applicant isn't required to provide the affordability as committed to do so with the office of housing to offer one unit as affordable. We do understand the concerns that we have heard from some of the surrounding neighbors as well. Couple with that. We did submit seven letters from about as a neighbors and support to this proposal. And again, just, you know, lastly, just just want to mention that some of the things even though that the BPA's recommendation is on the previous proposal standing at 12. Some of some of what they said that there was pressing it for the proposed scale and the use of the building the surrounding area. So I just wanted to bring that to your attention as well. And I'll give it. I'll just remember back over any other questions from the board. Hearing none may have a motion. A motion to approve with BPA designer. It's a pretty good building. I think it's a step since in that area. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Is Lou. Yes. Mr. Eiken. Yes. Miss Panato. Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Great. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Will now move on to the suggestions. It's good for them. Before we go further, I asked if there are any request for the calls or deferrals from the stock. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. 43-45. Stanton Street. That would be Chase V08144. 3137. The address of 43-45. Stanton Street. What do you do to respond in this? I'll turn it over to the cast. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Mark LeCas. LeCas. Last 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the project proponent. I'm pleased to put on the six member board status today. We are seeking an administrative deferral to the next as soon as the valid date. I'll be here. Madam Chair, Mark's 12 would be that date. Hey, it's going to start moving on to other dates. I'll be here. Can I have a motion? Motion is the first. I'll move to Mark's 12. Yes, sir. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Lowe. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Monago. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you kindly. Mr. Secretary, 841 Columbia Road, please. So that would be case of the way. 447-9078. Would you add us 841 Columbia Road? Would you please respond in the board? Yes. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Maddacle, with Fletcher-Tilton, with a business address of 100 Franklin Street on behalf of the applicant. We have made some final revisions to our plans and will be submitting them through ISD, so at this point we are seeking a deferral. Thank you, Chair. Mark's 26 would be the other further. Does that work for the attorney? Yes, it does. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lowe. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Monago. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, we have two raised hands. I will unmute them as if they are requested for a deferral. Okay. Hello. Hello, Ms. Nadya. I don't know. I have a question from Nadya Auto Body. Yes, that's correct. We have the continued meeting with the member of the council. We have a reaction to the addresses. Which addresses this? I'm sorry. What is the floor to say no to not? Okay. That's the first case, Mr. Stembridge. So that would be case. That case be away. One, four, nine, eight, six, two, five. The address of the ordinance is built and out there. I'll do it. I think he just said it more community process. How many areas there? One that are. Yeah. Madam, Madam Chair, March 26. I make a suggestion for that date. Is that work for the applicant? 1226. Yes. Does that give you enough time? Yes, that's fine. Okay. Would that be a motion? Motion to pass the March 26. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Parnato. Yes. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you. Thank you. Is that another raise hand that we saw? I believe I saw another hand, but do not see it anymore. Okay. All right. Mr. Stembridge. The staff will move on to companion cases. Case be away. Yes. I will move on to the next slide. Yes. Yes. So what is the number of cases? No. There's no question. 1 4 1. 5 5 6 6. The address of 22. Troll street. Off with that. We have case be away. One 4 1. 5 5 6 2. Which also has an address of 26. I'm sorry, which has an address of 26 total street. If the applicant and a little bit represent the persons who are situation to the board. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam Zamerance, Business Adder of 168 H Street, First floor, self-posted. Joining me today is the owner in a stoshio Baptista and James Christopher from 686 architects. This is a proposal to subdivide the lot into two lots. Lot A known as 26 Tori Street and Lot B to be known as 22 Tori Street. Lot A will maintain the existing three family with three off-street parking spaces, approximately 3,359 square feet. Lot B will maintain a new three story, five unit multi-family dwelling with five off-street parking spaces in the rear on approximately 4,971 square foot lot. There'll be an easement recorded to allow access for parking for the lot A as they will have to enter and cross through the land owned by Lot B. This proposal is located on a corner lot within a three F, 6,000 sub-district. One block away from neighborhood shopping in local convenience sub-district along Washington Street. The erection of the five unit dwelling is in line with the planning goals of increasing the city's housing stock, especially within the commercial corridor. Unit one will be located on the ground floor, which will consist of a three bedroom, approximately 1,133 square feet. Unit two, three, four, and five will consist of two bedrooms. Unit two and three will be located on the second floor. Unit four and five will be located on the third floor. These units will range from 868 square feet to approximately 945 square feet. All units will be owner occupies, violations that we do have. We have a use violation. We are proposing five units in a three F sub-district. We have a floor area ratio violation. We are proposing a 1.13 in a point four is compliant, but the proposed is consistent in scale and passing within the neighborhood. We have a height violation. We are compliant as to the proposed feet, but we have a violation of the stories as we are proposing three stories, two and a half stories as compliant under the code. We have violations for lock, frontage and width. 22 store, Tory Street is 50 feet in frontage, is 44.23 is what we're proposing, same thing with the width, we're at 41.9 feet. As far as 26, Tory Street, those violations were created with the subdivision. We have a width of 30 feet in the frontage of 35.93 feet. We have a front yard violation. We're proposing 9.1 feet in 15 feet is what it's compliant under the code. Being a corner lot makes the topography of the land very difficult to be compliant with that setback. The applicants who are focused on preserving and existing tree as you can actually see clearly from the site plan that's shown in front of us right now. The side yard, the violation of 26, Tory Street, and we have what is three is three feet on the left and 5.1 feet on the right, which is pre-existing. 22 storey street is 3.1 feet on the left, but due to the bump out of one of the sidewalk, we are providing zero side yard setback and 6.4 feet to the right of it. What is compliant is 10 feet on the side yard setback. Parking, we are proposing one space per unit, but the code requires 1.25 spaces per unit, but again, as consistent with the city's goals of reducing dependency on private vehicles, we are also in line with the BPA's recommendation of approval as well as increasing the housing stock within the commercial corridor. At this point, I'm going to pause for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Questions from the board? What's the rationale for increasing that bump out to a zero lot line? James, I'm going to defer to you as that was one of your changes. James from 6.8 hours, 6.8 seconds. I'm lively and static. Just to give that end of the building a little bit of shape and shadow lines so that it wasn't just a long flat wall along the roady street. And then also, if this is approved by this board today, this is something that could be addressed where it's a new direction, that can be addressed during BPA design. Certainly, we have space to adjust the setting of the building while we remove the bump altogether. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, can you go? Can you go over your recommendations? If you're available. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. You should have been combined into one where we are in support of the new and the new direction, the subdivision, the parking and the access work favor of this project. I can't really explain why we support 22 to our mystery and have a denial of the off-regidance on 26 that really doesn't make too much sense. So I'm going to go with our 22 Torrey Street clearwork, proving the direction of the new five units with the accessory parking and the east to the arch again, number 26. Thank you. That helps clarify my underlying question. Sorry about that, Madam Chair. Excuse me. Sorry about that. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. The Senator's Office, it's deferred to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process, on us, it hosted a buzzer's meeting on December 7th, a while back. I think in 2022, regarding the proposal to build seven units on the subdivided plot, the buzzer's meeting was likely to attend, and there was some concerns just with general gentrification in the area as well as displacement. The outcome pointed out that this would be a new build, this wouldn't be displacing any current maintenance. I understand the applicant met with the TNT a couple of times as the plans changed. The TNT sent in a letter of opposition and expressed that they would like the applicant to defer and take more time to work with the Civic. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Newman, just to confirm, because you started off by saying this was a larger number of units, was that letter based on the larger number of units or the current number of units? Believe it's the current. Okay, thank you. Okay, there's the board. I am the only one at the office of City Council of Brownwell Road, and I also was speaking with the TNT CIA, and in doing so, I was told the same thing, and I believe it is more about the fact that they were made aware of the changes, so we're just requesting that they pretend against the Senate, but it needs to be aware. Okay, thank you. Thank you. I have no additional units. Can I respond? Yes, please. So I can appreciate the concerns by the Civic Group. So we did meet with the Civic Group once where they provided us, when that was at a seven-unit proposal. So that first meeting, all the changes that we suggested of preserving the tree ownership, as well as reducing the unit count were all accommodated through the applicant, and the architectural team. We did go back and meet with that group a second time, and we didn't hear yet of any sort of concerns from this group until late yesterday afternoon. I personally don't think there is any room for other changes to be made. I don't think that it would warrant another meeting. I don't think anything else is going to be accommodated. We felt that based upon that letter, I'm not quite sure if the board has received it. Again, I just saw it for the first time. A lot of the issues they were raising were already accommodated, again, for the proposal. So I'm going to leave it into your direction, Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? A motion to approve with BVDA design of you. Is there a second? Yes, a second. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Oak. Yes. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. Mr. Eater. I'm just here. Mr. Eater. Yes. Mrs. Panato. Yes. Mr. Acin. Mr. Acin. Mr. Acin. It's been about quite a year. Yes. Mr. Acin. Yes. Mr. Acin. Yes. Miss Panato. Yes. Mr. Acin. Yes. Mr. Acin. Mr. Acin. Yes. Mister Otto. Yes. Mister Osselblöcy. Yes. Motion carries. Good bye. Thank you. 53533535, the address of 98 Benny Constreet. Along with that we have case 20815335337 also with the address of 98 Benny Constreet. It's the applicant's hand to what they represent. Mr. Stone. Good morning. Good morning. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board, Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street, East Boston, behalf of the petitioner. Madam Chair, this is a pre-existing three unit dwelling located on Benny's in street, which serves as the main drag for the East Boston community. The building, we're going to jump to the next slide. It's easier to see. The building we're talking about is this multi-color building here in towards the middle of the screen. Our proposal involves a complete rehabilitation of existing three family structure in a vertical addition with a change of occupancy of four dwelling units. We scroll down a couple of slides we can get to the actual rendering of the proposed building itself. One more. One more beyond that. There we go. So I think it's important to pause here quickly because I did have a chance to read the recommendation by the Boston Planning and Development Agency, which indicates that a denial would be appropriate. The variance is that we do seek on our Article 53. I should not be granted. A couple of things I will point out as I mentioned in my last hearing. First and most importantly is the iPod for East Boston has expired an expired November of 2023. And therefore the standards for which the board should be reviewing these are not under the guidelines for Article 53, but more so under the proposed recommendations for planning spots. I would submit the proposed project, although it's been a pipeline for a little bit of time. You know, we have an opportunity to review the recommendations and we've tried to align this project to be very consistent with the goals and objectives of planning spots. So I will unless it's the last presentation run through quickly what the zoning relief that would be required kindly as well as how it aligns with planning spots. Because this is a three F 2000 district, a four story multi family use would not be allowed in the three F 2000 district. I believe that is one of the reasons why the recommendation recommended denial. However, this district is proposed to be an EBR for district, which is what the planning spots and recommendations have for this section of that instant street. Under EBR for multi family use is allowed as is a four story dwelling up to 50 feet high. I would also point out that the FAR that is typically required under Article 53, which is one of the items that the site of the recommendation is eliminated under EBR for. So the new zoning would not have an FAR climate. And again, this building would accordingly align. If we want to jump down to the site plan, I would say believe is the next, probably the next stage that shows the proposed conditions. So generally with respect to the existing footprint of the building madam chair, we don't change much other than reorganize the decks to the rear. As you can see, we have a very generous setback of the rear for the real property. It's at 44 and a half feet. That only complies with Article 53 current zoning. But new EBR for zoning indicates that we should have a one third setback of the rear. So clearly we exceed the setback requirement under the rear. I pose for current zoning as well as proposed zoning more importantly is the permeable space that would be necessary. We do have the required 40% permeable area based upon the rear. I was not going to occupy by instructors or parking. So again, this would that would align with the new requirements under planning spots and for permeable open space. With respect to the parking, this isn't existing pre existing three unit dwelling under new zoning for East Boston. Up to three units does not require any parking. It's only when you get to the fourth unit that you have one parking space for unit. I believe consistent with past practice under Article 53 and certain past regulations, the zoning code will only be by parking for the additional dwelling units that being proposed to an existing structure. And in this case, it would be practically impossible to add parking to the site, not to mention the fact that the section of bedding history is pretty well traveled. So if we were even able to add parking, it would be somewhat of a challenge to introduce a curb cut as well as to have traffic safely coming out of the property. I don't think BTD also would appreciate us creating one parking spot of the site based again on podcast policy when it comes to actually parking. So although we would not align with the one additional parking space of your car, I believe that is the only item we would require. We found our new zoning. Again, I believe the current zoning violations would essentially be eliminated once the new zoning was adopted. The unit size is range from about 825 to 835 feet each. They're all too bad room too bad. This is intended for home ownership of the population. I will pause to see if there are any questions for the board that I may have to address. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I mean, I'm sure I do have a question. I think it's their basement unit. There's a basement unit. I believe we only have mechanical and storage in the basement level. Okay, let's be confusing a lot. All right. That's why I was just curious about the new and the relationship to the new C-Frog lights, but that doesn't seem to apply. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board, Malaviy Agamas with the Office of Neighborhood Services. All in us hosted in a butters meeting for this project on May 10, 2003, and a better act this meeting at 91 Bendington Street, express support for the design and share their support for more housing. The applicant also went out with the Maverick Central New Prohood Association in May and Maverick Central voted to support the project. At this time, our office would like to defer to the director to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board, Christian Seminali, Boston, and Robert Chalin. We have both three card letters from the applicant. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board, Sebastian Papram, Councilor Coletta's office, the Councilor would like to go and support this project. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Can we add a design review and the G-Cod? If you'd like to, sure, make a motion to approve of BKD design review and G-Cod accountability. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? No, because of the height. Ms. Lowell? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. Chair votes, yes, motion carries. Madam Chair, I believe there was building her with respect to access to proposed roof deck without a house. I know the policy in East Boston is to not have had a site. I don't know if you need a separate vote on that, but that was the companion case, I believe. Mr. Harvey? Madam Chair, you could do a quick motion about that as well. Okay. Mr. B, please say it. Got it. May I have a motion on the second piece? It's a stairwell instead of a headhouse. Correct. Correct. Actors. Make a motion to approve the access by hatch instead of a stairwell. That's how the headhouse is. Yes. Make a motion to approve by access. The hatch instead of a headhouse. The second? The second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Ms. Lowell? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Ms. Pannato? Yes. Chair also votes, yes, motion carries. Good welcome. Next, we have case of the way. One five three three two six zero with the address of 16 bonds avenue. It's the applicant and will they represent the person they're starting to vote for? Yes. Good afternoon. Good morning. Again, Mr. Stembridge and members of the board. Madam Chair, Richard Lane's 245 Summers Street on behalf of the petitioner, owner of one of six bonds avenue in this Boston. Madam Chair, this represents an existing condition that we are essentially seeking to lead to the next five years. The current funds. The premises have been used for a three unit dwelling since at least 2005. I know we've included records from the city of Boston. Tax assessor showing the use of the property and I fully understand that that was a process after recently at Barbering. It was informed by IST that this needed to be addressed by way of occupancy. So I can run through what the conditions are operating. If you want to jump out of the next slide to show some of the existing context, we can go over. So this is located in East Boston. We run it back south to the MBTA-oriented ice parking lot. As you can see in upper left corner photo, the lot size itself is under 5,000 square feet, 4,875 square feet to be exact. Again, the comparisons for the zoning districts, for current zoning, for all its proposed zoning, don't change much with respect to use. The dimensions of the property itself are probably the most significant to discuss. If you want to jump down to be a couple of slides further with existing conditions, these are tax bills. So again, showing that we do have evidence, not only of use, but assessments since 2005. That is what the city of Boston identifies as property as. So this is merely just to confirm that occupancy or not proposing any work to the premises, not extending anything with respect to the footmaid of property or the height that will simply continue as it's currently occupied. We want to jump down to the next slide please. Well, let me go one more slide into the floor plan. So, showing the conditions themselves, we do a full walk-up condition for the basement, seeing the rear elevation of the property. The property is oriented so that the back portion of the property has that small bump out window you can see in the floor plan. Each of the levels currently have two bedrooms and roughly are on 11 square feet inside. Let me jump down to the next slide please. We show here the elevation, showing the height from Barnes Avenue as it comes down towards the rear of the property. We have at least seven foot six inch clear ceiling height and lower levels so that level would comply with the state building code, respect to building height. Next slide please. I'm going to go one more slide. So, the building itself does occupy approximately 30% of the lot under the proposed new zoning. The maximum lot coverage would be 40%. So, we would be in compliance. As I said, we're not proposing any additions or adjustments of the footprint self. We would easily also meet the permeable surface. We could achieve that by showing the space in the rear portion of the yard in relationship to the amount of overall lot size as well as what we have in the front yard and the side yard as well. So, that would reach the 50% that's required out of the new zoning for permeable space. The maximum floor plate that's allowed in the new zoning district would be 18 hours per square feet. Our floor plate would be 1420 square feet and therefore be in compliance with proposed new zoning recommendations. As with the height of our building, which would be limited to two and a half stories, 35 feet. So, with respect to the new zoning that's being proposed for this section of East Boston, this building would be dimensionally compliant and could comply with all of the other requirements including lot coverage and permeability. The only issue would be the use. This zoning district would permit up to two units per dwelling. But as I mentioned, this has been a longstanding pre-existing condition that we're simply seeking to legalize based upon the past history of property. Stop there and answer any questions before it. Thank you. Can you confirm if there's basement living in New York? There is space at the lower level that full walk out condition I showed in the elevation. I know Miss A. Ian's previous question regarding the last proposal was. What's the problem about this one? Yes. Yeah, with the coastal flood resiliency lines. So at this time, coastal flood resiliency, I believe it's towards the rear of the property and the actual applicability of coastal flood resiliency overlay would not apply at present unless it's an article eating size project where we're adding 15,000 more square feet or I'm sorry, 20,000 more square feet or 15 more dwelling units. So, although again, this is a pre-existing condition. I do recognize the coastal flood question, but we feel the applicability is not, is not part of this purpose of this time. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Just a clarify, Miss A. Ian. So the city has been tagging this house as a three family since 2005, right? That's correct. Thank you. Yeah, through the chair. Actually, this is my clients. The third owner of this property. I'm not sure why it didn't come up previously. I don't believe anybody's telling me work to the property. But since two owners ago, that's how it's been taxed. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Very none may have public testimony. Hello, Madam Chair and members of the board, Malibu Agomos with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted in a butter's meeting for this project on September 7, 2023. No butter's represented on the call. The Oregon Heights Neighborhood Council met on July 17, 2023 to discuss and vote on members proposed about was presented. The Oregon Heights Neighborhood Council membership ultimately voted to oppose a project with one member in favor of 40 opposed at the one of state. The resident in opposition, residents in opposition of the project felt that the three family was not in line with the existing zoning, with the area or in mind with the current direction of Granny's Bastion. The brothers also raised concern over the existing condition and the upkeep of the property. ONS received a letter in opposition to the project that was forwarded to the board and state's concerns over the upkeep of the property. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Any other comments? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. The answer is from the Council of the Polaris Office. The Council appreciates that there are no changes to the footprint and no additions to tighter intensity. She recognized that this property has been taxed and assessed as a triple debtor for almost 20 years as well. She would like to call attention to the fact that this is also has been a intensive re-soning initiative that limits housing in this area through the EBR 2.5 zoning. But at maximum, two families. The neighborhood group voted overwhelmingly in opposition to this discrepancy as they set precedent to new projects in the future. She doesn't support the president being set, although we will defer to the expertise of the council of the board given that this is active in the Caledity and it's been a three family for years. Thank you. I'll respond just briefly, Madam Chair. No further comments? Does Scott have any other raised hands? Doesn't sound like it. As your comment thing, we're responding, Mr. Lins. Can you also, if you have any insight into any of the neighboring houses, are they generally ones to any threes? Thank you. Yes. There are three families located on Barnes Avenue. There are a mix of ones, two, and threes, directly across the street from this actually multi-family. So there are other types of uses similar in this area. I do appreciate the councilor's comments about precedent. I think I made the comment on the times of the past that the boards actions in this case do not send any precedent. Future cases, they're outbound by any decisions they make on one project as they make relate to other projects. I believe this project, this particular proposal is unique and we are sensitive to the concerns that we did here in New York. I think the council at the time of the property being in compliance with New Zoning. As I laid out, I believe the building itself would conform dimensionally to all New Zoning requirements under EBR 2.5. But the longstanding condition of this property is a pre-existing three family. I should be recognized as something that at least is not necessarily the fall of the current owner. I would also point out the board. This building is occupied. If the board were not to congratulate you, can I fully understand it's within the board. Of course, for you to do that, that would potentially result in displacement of one of the residential units. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none may have a motion. A motion to approve is just based on the taxes. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Luke. Yes. Mr. Aiken. I'm going to vote yes because this is pre-existing building and because of the concern of there being a tenant that might be displaced. Mr. Panato. Yes. Here also votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Have a great day. Thank you. And it looks like we are on break until 1 p.m.? Yes, Madam Chair. Okay, morning, staff. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.