 I'd like to offer out thanks to Bruce Vicka staff who has been on this board as a community representative for very many years. So he has recently resigned. I'd also like to welcome two new members, Joe Rujurio from East Boston. He's a community representative and the Dean Fallon who's a real estate representative. With that, let's proceed with the agenda. Thank you Madam Chair. The first order of business is the extensions calling BOA 0-0-913-175-GO straight. Name an address for the record please. The board is on task with Dr. Angon to scum and set up 15 broad streets with 610. Seeking extension for the final review and the issue as of the permit. Seeking a 6 month one year extension. And so the permit is still valid. Yes. They may have a motion please. Motion for one year extension. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Thank you. Calling your next case for G-Cod calling BOA 986 945 6 Mellrose Street. Is Mellrose Street here? I will hold that one off to the side. Calling the next case for G-Cod calling BOA 992 1986 86 Massachusetts Avenue. This is a change of the occupancy from the group care residents, general to group residents, limited increased residents from 24 to 28, installed a stormwater system in the groundwater, conservation overlay district, and installed a rooftop mechanical equipment. The violation of the Article 32 section 9, this is in the G-Cod. Name an address for the record please. John Griffith, 441 Santa Street, Jamaica Plane. I'm waiting for a representation. Hold on one second. Christian the violation, the Article is 329. Petika. My name is Chan members of the board. Christian is similarly busier. I want to trust. At this time we would support a whole for signature. The applicant has been very diligent and submitted their plans to bus and water and sewer, and they're just currently under review. Okay. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. To hold and hold. To hold and hold signature. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Good luck. Calling a nice case for building code. Calling VO8 990-144-142-Chandloosry. This is to construct a new roof deck and area stairways leading up to the roof deck. A new kitchen of bathroom. The violations. The 9th edition 7080 CMR 1011 stairways. Where a stairway is provided to roof access. The roof shall be provided to a penthouse, complying with section 15.2. Name and address for the record please. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm a board, Adam Braylor, principal belt tie and one international place in Boston. With me is Paul McGrane from EZ Architect for the project. We're here in connection with the proposal to develop a roof deck and access way at 142 KAMR street. It's within the south end neighborhood multifamily residential zoning district. As the as this is what you said. We conform with the bottom zoning regulations code. However, it's not applied with the state. So we expect to be to the proposed roof hatches that are penthouse. So it's questions you put forward to grant that. So you're requesting a roof hatch. That's correct. And how many units in the building? How many units are in the building? There are three units. Three units. And this would be only accessible to the top unit. Correct. Okay, this is the olex. I have the drawings to find and it shows the hatch. So do we have a motion please? Or should you prove? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Before I call the 930s, I'm going to, is Melrose, is 6 Melrose Street here? I'm going to see it. Come back to that. Okay. We're going to go right to the 930s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Address please? 81 Everdeen. Calling B-O-A, 928, 844, 81 Everdeen Street. There is a companion case, B-O-A 952066, 81 Everdeen Street. Name an address for the record please. Good morning. My name is Stuart Shryer. I'm an attorney with an office at 1005, Dorchester Avenue. The reason we're seeking in deferral is because we have had the neighborhood on-site meeting. We've actually met once with the neighborhood association clamp point, but they asked us to come back for a second time because they wanted some changes. The owner is making the changes and they don't meet again until October 21st. So how substantial are those changes? Phyllis substantial. There's an interior garage now in the house. They're removing the garage, moving the driveway to the left side of the house. There's a kitchen in the garage right now the way the house was designed. The house is meet a lot of changes. Any motion please? I'll give you a third. There are seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You said? What did you say? I took the 23rd. You took the last time. The 29th. The number because we did not have a code board. It was October 29th. October 29th. Correct. But this is, we're following that. Even for the 10th. Yes. We're going to go with a November 19th at 11.30. That's very kindly. Address? 11.13 Henry Street. Well the record calling BLA 97044613 Henry Street. The companion case BLA 97044811 Henry Street. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Matt Ecclele, I'm an attorney with Drego and Tuscano. With the business address of 15 Broad Street here in Boston. I'm seeking at this time to withdraw the appeals on both 11 and 13 Henry Street. Any have a motion please? Motion for denial without prejudice. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Madam Chair, we do have a couple here. I'm going to call the first case calling BLA 9802354 Waverly Street. We have a letter from the opponent. He's there withdrawing so I make a motion for denial without prejudice. There are a second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, at the third page, Bernie Street to Trumont. I'm going to call these in for the record. Calling BLA 8081369 Bernie Street. Case BLA 929679 Bernie Street. BLA 9296215108-1514 Trumont Street. BLA 9296551516-1518 Trumont Street. And BLA 9295551520 Trumont Street. This is being deferred to the October 29th meeting at 1130. I'm going to refuse the letter. I'm going to make a motion for deferral. Zero seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the first two cases for 930. Calling BLA 97041119 Ellis Street. There is a companion case BLA 9703917 Ellis Street. This is for 19. This is directly three family residential building which she had drive away in three parking spaces in the rear. Violations, Article 10, Section 1, limitation of OSP parking area. Article 69, Section 29, insufficient OSP parking in location. Article 69, Section 8. A three family use has forbidden. Article 69, Section 9. The lot of areas insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, the bill of height is excessive in stories. Article 69, Section 9, usable open spaces insufficient. This is for 17. 17 Ellis Street. This is directly three family residential building which she had drive away in three parking spaces in the rear. The Violations, Article 10, Section 1, limitation of OSP parking. Article 69, Section 29, OSP parking is insufficient in location. Article 69, Section 8, the three families forbidden. Article 69, Section 9, the lot of areas insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the lot of width is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the lot of frontages insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, the bill of height is excessive in stories. Article 69, Section 9, usable open spaces insufficient. And Article 69, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. One share of members of the board, my name is George Moran, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and Salt Boston. Madam Chair, members, the plans submitted to the board are in the form of five pages pertaining to 17 Ellis and then five pages pertaining to 19 Ellis Street. They're essentially the same building. What is occurring is there is an existing two family structure with an accessory garage on a 10,000 square foot lot. Those structures ought to be raised. The lot has already been approved for a subdivision pursuant to a separate ALT application. There will be two 5,000 square foot lots, 17 Ellis and 19 Ellis. On each lot would be built a new three-story family building with three parking spaces in the rear. The second page of the handout is the proposed site plan for 17 Ellis site believe in maybe 19 Ellis in your packet. But again, basically the same layouts on the site, the same buildings, a three-story building in the front, a shared driveway between and then three-off street parking spaces in the rear yard area. This is a two-way 5,000 zoning sub district in Hyde Park under Article 69. Therefore, there is of course a use violation since a three-family dwelling is being proposed in a two-family district. There are citations related to the off street parking. Three spaces are being provided for each three unit building that is insufficient under Article 69. At the same time, there is also a violation for limitation of area of accessory use because the off street parking is taking up more than 25% of the unpaid parking. So we are excited for having parking on the site but also excited for not having enough parking on the site. What is your deficit in parking? I believe it should be 4.5. I think it is 1.5. I am not positive. I think that is the case though. Right, so it will be rounded down to four. And each one is at three. There are citations here for insufficient lot area and insufficient lot width and frontage. The required width and frontage in the sub district is 50 feet. A 50 feet is provided for each building and each bot. The height violation owes only to the story height of the buildings. This is 2.5-story 35-foot district. These are three story buildings. But the maximum linear height of each building is only 32.5 feet. The citation for insufficient use of the open space. 1,750 square feet is required in the sub district. These lots do not meet that. But there is certainly, I would say, about an excess of 1,500 square feet total provided on each lot. There are side yard areas in rear yard areas. There are no decks at all. These are prototypical three decars as we see all over the city. And finally, there is a side yard insufficiency side of the required side yard. Here is 10 feet. The buildings actually meet those setback requirements on each side, outside side of each lot. There is one citation here for one of the buildings of for side yard insufficiency, which is occurring where the share driveway is. And that is a 12 foot share driveway. And so there will be easements for the... If the... as long as the lots remain in common ownership and easements not necessary if the buildings in the parcels fall out of common ownership, there would be a recording cross easement. The units are three bedroom units. There are 1100 square feet plus each. And they just straight floor through units on floors one, two, and three. So I am looking at 17 Alice. And it looks as though the driveway is 6.6 feet. No, that is the side yard setback. That is the portion of the 17 Alice lot that contains 6.5 feet of the 12 feet driveway. 8.3 feet... I am not sorry, 9.8.3. The remainder of the driveway, the greater portion of the driveway, is on the 19 Alice site. So it is a 12 foot driveway. There is an existing easement that runs along the side of 17 Alice Street, which will remain there. So the driveway becomes 12 feet. The majority of the driveway is on the 19 Alice Street site. That is my question is that with the caveat that as long as this for me it is in common ownership, that is a shared driveway. But should it not, then there is a deficit as far as accessing those three spaces at 17. That is correct. There is a disincentive to the owner selling one of the two buildings or the two buildings to third parties, and not recording an easement. Clearly that would occur. It is a legal nullity now. An easement cannot be recorded between two properties in common ownership. It is impossible to record an easement at the registry. If one or both of the buildings is sold, obviously my client, the property owner would want to preserve access for each building to the parking and the driveway, and would in fact at that time prior to sale record an easement. The question is the cross-pacess that is showing, so can there be any indication that I am assuming that the chemicals are eaten within each unit? Yes, that is my plan. Exactly. They are not. They are schematic designed drawings for zoning before a permit would issue construction drawings would need to detail the location of the mechanicals and utilities. Yes, by I believe that that is correct. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Brian Flimm with the May's Office of Naval Services, representing Hyde PAC, and if I was held regarding this project, there was no opposition from the community, so we do want to go on record and support of the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else representing elected officials who want to go on record? Anybody else who speak in support? Are you speaking in opposition? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? This is for Ellis Street, 19 Ellis. I am here. Put your name and address on the record until the switcher opposition is based on. My name is Cynthia Smith and I'm a home owner of 8 at 8 Ellis Street in Hyde Park, Masked. Okay. So tell us what your opposition is. My opposition is that the area is too small and it's too condensed to have to erect a three family or any additional units in that space. I am a home owner and owner of a three family residence on 8 Ellis Street on the opposite side of the street. I've been living there for over 25 years and I'm the last living home owner on that street originally. I'm the longest home owner there. I've been here for the last 20 years. I've spent cleaning the street myself, keeping the street clean and going to community meetings and hearings about the homes on that street that are not owner occupied. I've been here for a long history of violence, issues with tenants and other issues with trash and road ins going on on the street. I believe that adding this area to that home which the home owner I knew just moved away and the new owner that purchased that area, I think that it should be left as a two family. It actually is on that side of the street. It would look conducive to what is on that side of the street. There are just two families on that side of the street. On the opposite side there are some three families and a six family. And on the corner there is an additional six family. I have worked with the community and the police have been involved several years with properties on that street that are not owner occupied. Where there are tenants living there and we have issues ongoing. And I have spoken to and gone around and petitioned for residential permit parking on that street. And I have spoken personally to several homeowners and neighbors that live on that street and the surrounding streets that are opposed to this. Thank you. I think we get to be understand. Mr. Marancy, will these are these going to be rentals or condoms? I don't know. I honestly don't. In terms of the density, I mean this is currently at the 10,000 square foot lot. It is a- There is representation. There are other three families in addition to six families on the street as well. Thank you. May I have the motion please? Motion to approve the BVA design. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Thank you. Following an extra case is calling BLA-9608013B Rivers street. Is the river street here? Okay. There are two companion case BLA-9607A13A Rivers street and BLA-96077013 Rivers street. This is for 13 River Street. This is an addition to alterations to an existing structure at 13 River Street. And for 13A and 13B Rivers street, this is to separate the buildings in the rear of the lot. The violation of the Article 65 section 42, two more dwellings on the same lot. Article 65 section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building height number of stories is excessive. Article 65 section 9, usable open space is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. This is for 13A River Street. Directing new four story, two family dwelling on an existing 11,663 square foot lot. Parking will be located under the building. This will be one of three dwellings located on the same lot. The violation is Article 65 section 42, conformity with an existing building alignment. Article 65 section 42, two more dwellings on the same lot. Article 65 section 9, the main entrance to a dwelling shall face the front lot line. Article 65 section 9, the lot of areas is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the lot of frontages is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the building height number of stories is excessive. Article 65 section 9, usable open spaces is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 65 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. This is for 13B. The violations are the same. This is directly new four story. Two family dwelling and existing 11,663 square feet. This will be one of three dwellings on the same lot. Name and address for the record please. Welcome Madam Chair. And I remember it was 8 and 4, 16 Woodside Drive, Milton. This is interesting to me, so please explain what you're proposing to do. What we are proposing to do, there is an existing building right on the front of the lot. And we are now planning to remodel, keep that existing building. That is a single. That's a one family, okay? So we plan to split that in two and build off the rear and turn that one into two townhouses. And then in the rear the lot builds two separate buildings, each building to have two separate townhouses. So six in total. Six units in total. So keeping that one family, is that seven in total? No, we're converting the single up front into two. Okay. And adding two additional buildings. So how large is the slot? A lot of believers, just over 11,000 square feet. And what is the only district? I honestly don't know. I'm missing my architects there. He can't still be the last minutes all. You can't think so. Two of six thousand. So for all intents and purposes, you should be allowed to build four families on this lot. We are generally supportive of having two buildings on the same lot. We have built these on the same lot. Have you explored subdivision? We have, as I said, we've met with Dolor Mills Association. We've met with all the neighbors. We've had your brothers meeting. And everybody has been in support and improving. I honestly am asking you as box stops with us. So I need to find out from you. Have you explored any other options? Well, initially my first option was to take down the building in front. And just put up one building. But Dolor Mills Association was asking us to see if the building, because it's right on the street. Okay. And so you have a number of violations. Can you talk through them on 13B, River Street. Tell us what's required and what you're proposing. And honestly, I wish I could answer that question, but we don't. We have to take the read or not. You may have a motion put in front so we can have a full understanding of this project. There are seconds. All those in favor. All right. Any pose? The deep please. The religion you can get in is November 19th. November 19th. We have to have the architect come up with handouts so we can understand what is. Right. Okay. See you then. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B.O.A.947294265 Hancock Street. Madam Chairwoman, I'd like to use myself. Thank you. All this talent is recusing herself from this hearing. This is demolish an existing single family at 265 Hancock Street and construct a new six family at 265 and combined law with 259 Hancock Street and existing three family and an existing four family and turn 13 parking space as shown. The violations are at 65 section 41. The law should be parking requirement is insufficient. Article 65 section 8, a multifamily dwelling unit is forbidden use. Article 65 section 42, two of more dwellings on the same law. Article 65 section 9, the fluid air ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the height is excessive. Article 65 section 9, usable open space, is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the front yard setback is insufficient. Article 65 section 9, the side yard setback is insufficient. And Article 65 section 9, the rear yard setback is insufficient. Name and address further, echo please. Harold Raymond, 998 Metropolitan Avenue. Abraham Alvarez, 89th Avenue, Darjesta. And then, boy, 265 Hancock Street. Could you sound supposed to be proposed? Okay. What we are proposing is to combine the slam-ones all three of the locks that are there. And this is just the picture of, you know, one building we already completed. She came through the silver door of appeal. She owns this and that. So, what we're proposing is to build a six family, which is right here. You're going to demolish this existing building, which is here. This is a three family, this is a four family. We have 13 parking spaces, which covers all three of the units there. We have actually six for this building, which is there. The other thing is we have, you know, this is what the building looks like here, sort of right across within the eight-block area, sort of fits in with the overall development of hers here. Basically, the parking is underneath the building here for the six units. This is this building. This is what's being subdivided. This is all... So, please, backtrack. So, what's being subdivided? Basically, there's one big parcel property, which is about 10,000 square feet. We subdivided this parcel, which is about 6,000 square feet out of the site here. This has got a big legill and everything, so some of the site goes into that here. So, it doesn't create any violations with the subdivision of the two properties on your side? Oh, okay. So, we have to certainly do all this, just to clean it all up in that phase. So, this is from what I can see, a three family, 5,000 district, and you're proposing 6,000... So, this law is 6,000 square feet. Yeah, I don't have exact dimensions, but that's what I have. Yeah, but that's close enough. Okay, so this is a 6,000 square foot law. Zoning requires three out for 5,000 and you're proposing 6 units. And we've got support from the Hancock Center Association. Please, since you're here, you're the expert on this talk through the violations first. We can hear about process from the mayor's office. Okay, so we have our street parking requirements in sufficient. We do have the parking, which is here. So, you think that for the units, that for the 6 units, you're meeting the parking requirements. Okay. And we have the parking required and it's meant for the other two buildings. So, we have 13 parking spaces. Okay. It's a forbidden use. Two or more dwellings on the same lot. How about the FAR? The FAR is, you know, you need a variance to that, because it's a small... So, it's a warning required and what is being proposed there. The zoning in a 3 F5,000 area, the FAR is like, I think, 0.81. Okay. The other thing is that the building height is about... It's about 40 feet. So, it's about 40 feet here. So, it blends in with the two existing buildings on the site there. And this one through small project, would you? Small project. No, not yet. Not yet? Yeah. So, it's before us, before going through small project. Yeah, well, yeah. Well, we went before the community, but we still got to go through BRA, yet there, input and everything. Do I understand the process correctly, Jeff, that it goes through small project review? It's only a 6-fam. Okay, but so, does it need... It does a needs small project. I think there's some miscommunication. I think they may be thinking about design review after, if there's an award, a proofs. This doesn't know that it needs small projects. It might be in a neighborhood design overlay, but that it's not the same process. Okay. So, go ahead and help. Okay, so, open space requirement. So, we do have balconies, and we do have a large roof deck, and we do have a lot of this. This is like a ledge or mountain behind us, so we're incorporating this into the open space there. So, let me ask you, is the roof deck accessible to all the units, or just the top unit? It's accessible to all the units, because it's going to be rental housing owned by the same owner, this lamb. Tell us about the size, the number, the breakdown of the units, and the sizes. Okay, so, this building, we have two bedroom on the first floor, which is a handicap accessible there. What's the estimated size of that space? The estimated size of that unit is about 700 square feet. We also have a basement for mechanical storage, and the storage is up above. On the units up above, on the front end, we have a free bedroom, for the massive bedroom, and a deck. Behind here, we have actually two bedrooms, two bedrooms there, and a top floor. We have two three bedroom units. What are the wires just to arm it? The drawings are good. Let me question. The roof deck, as you said, is accessible to all the units. Is accessible through a head house? Yes, they can come up. Yes, there's a head house. So, the common stairwell building. Yes. Okay. There's an interesting design feature you have. It's a PVC screen on top. Which is quite high, actually. What's the purpose of that? Just give it a little identity in the area, because it's a crossbone, eight blocks, and just give it a little identity. Is it privacy for the deck as well, or not for the deck? No, it's just the architectural feature. It's a design feature. And what is the height of the top of the area? I would say the top here is about 10, and it goes down about 3. Okay, any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? More to Madam Chairmen, members of the Board of Christine Brindeo, Mayor's Office and Able Services. We had two of others meetings. We had no concerns. They also have gone to the Civic Association. They have no concerns as well. We would like to go and record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council of Frank Baker's Office, would also like to go and record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? I'll go to the room. And is that specific attention to the staff on the roof? You kind of like this for me. Yeah. Just take a look at it. I mean, it's unusual in the sense that it has high appearance and height for the overall building. So, yeah, I think we'll get it. Hold on. So, do you do a bureau board? There was a second. All those in favor? Yes. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're all set to mind. Thank you. Calling BOA 966-548-86 Roseter Street. This is to extend living space to the basement for Unit 1 on an existing three-family dwelling. The violation is Article 65, Section 9. Floor the Aratio is excessive. Name and address. For the record, please. Greg Manigat, nice look and world, Jerica Plain. I'll be back for a second. So, I'm Eric Bayard, or the owner of 86 Roseter Street, my true. Okay. So, tell us what's being proposed. So, what's been proposed is to extend the first floor into the basement to the basement from living space. Like, clients have some kids coming back from college and they've been having a hard time trying to find a place. Tell me what the space in the basement will be used for? Will it be bedrooms? Yes. Yes, some bedrooms. This one. One day. This one? What's the floor to ceiling height in there? We'll end up having seven foot six. Seven foot six, and how will you get that? Right now is the floor to ceiling by seven, too. So, we're going to take down a little bit of few inches just to... Because it's be family, we have to go down to seven six. How in the plans are stuff like that? Yeah, it shows the seven foot six, it shows the family room, pool table, and it works with the stairwell. It's all consistent with the phone car or itself. And, okay. Any other questions or any board? Does anybody get this? I'm just speaking support of this proposal. Morning, Madam Chairman. I'm a boy, Christine Rendale, Mayor's Office, unable to services. I'd like to go on a recon support. We had no butters meetings and the butters had no concerns of this kind. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? I mean, I'm motionally... Motion of proof. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second. Thank you. Calling the next case is calling BLA 832-253-36. Good deal, Road. Companion case is BLA 832-252. The 527 North Park Street. BLA 832-251-525 North Park Street. BLA 832-249-523 North Park Street. BLA 832-2619-Leston Street. BLA 832-259-13-Hosmer Street. And BLA 832-257-11-Hosmer Street. This is for 36 good deal. This is constructing new single-family dwelling. This is the City of Boston, able to homes initiative project. Violations, Article 60, Section 41. Conformity within existing building alignment. Article 60, Section 9. Lawy areas insufficient. Article 60, Section 9. Side yard is insufficient. This is for a 527 North Park Street. Deceptive by law and contracting new single-family. In the City of Boston, Naverhoge Home-Dinitio Project. The Violations, Article 60 Section 41. Conformity within existing building alignment. Article 60, Section 9. The Lawy areas insufficient. This is for 525 North Park Street. This is for subdivide. This is for subdivide. Is the subdivide? Are those handouts for us? No, no. I'm thinking that's already. You dealt with plans. I need another plan. The chair was asked if my hand does progress in the work. Oh. This is Stubdivide Law and Constructing New Single Family. This is the City of Boston, neighborhood of home to nation of. Violations atical 60 section 41, conformity with existing billing alignment, atical 60 section 9, a lot of areas insufficient, atical 60 section 9, usable open spaces and sufficient. This is for 523 North Park. This is the Stubdivide Law who construct new two family dwelling. Violation atical 60 section 41, conformity with existing building alignment, atical 60 section 9, a lot of areas insufficient, atical 60 section 9, a lot of width is insufficient, atical 60 section 9, a lot of frontages insufficient, atical 60 section 9, the fluid area ratio is excessive, atical 60 section 9, the side yard is insufficient. This is for 9, a lesson, constructing a single family dwelling for the City of Boston neighborhood and home to nation of project. The Violation atical 60 section 9, a lot of areas insufficient, atical 60 section 9, front yard is insufficient. This is for 13 Haasma. This is the Stubdivide Law who construct a new single family, semi-attached dwelling, the Violation atical 60 section 41, conformity with existing building alignment, atical 60 section 9, a lot of areas insufficient. And this is for 11 Haasma, Stubdivide Law, construct a new single family dwelling, atical 60 section 41, conformity with existing building alignment. Amen, address, full the record please. I've skyred Fed Architect for the project, four five four low, live and new mass. Eric Burke, developer, 77 pondav, Brookline Mass. Thomas was being proposed. Sorry. Tell us what's being proposed. Yes, this started good, 36 good del is, we're proposing to get three families, sorry, a single family dwelling. So all together there are eight families that have been proposed. There are eight individual addresses, yes. Okay. They're different, they're how are they scattered sites throughout Mattapan? But there are in the general area of each other. 36 good del is being proposed. In fact, all of these projects are being proposed on existing locks. Some locks have been subdivided. In the case of 36 good del, that is an existing lot in which we're putting a single family home on that line. In the case of 25, 27 Northport, 527 Northport and 523 Northport, and 527 Northport, 525 Northport, and 523 Northport is being built on a larger lot, that is being subdivided into three lot, in order to the first lot, subdivision lot is 523 Northport, which we're proposing a two family structure on that lot. The other lot is being, the other second portion is, that lot is 525 and 527. Now 525 and 527 are actually, there are single family homes there are being done on a similar lot, but the lot is being subdivided. The difference is that there is a party wall between 525 and 527. That's a good natural house. I'm sorry? Yes, okay. In the case of next lot, I believe it's a nine less than street. Nine less than street also has been subdivided as a middle subdivision in that we are giving a piece of that lot to the butter because he needs a adjacent, he needs additional loss base in order that he could accomplish his driveway. Less than street we're proposing a single family home or three family home on less than street, as on less than street. House of the street is being done, started from initially it was one large lot. That lot is being subdivided into two lots, in order to accomplish 11, 13, there would be a party wall between the two structures, Asperg Code, but there are separate addresses. All of these logs will have a driveway and have parking in the rear. Most of these homes that we're proposing really is part of the D&D's home, this is program which what they have done is is provided to us an actual design for each of those laws, each housing types, which we're citing on each of those properties. I'm just on. And your office is. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of these proposals? Good morning Madam Chairman, the board, good morning Madam Chairman, the board who needs to lesson with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Here's speaking in support of this project. They've gone out to the neighborhood and we've also had one last butters meeting to invite neighbors to discuss. We support the home ownership aspect and brings to the neighborhood. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, Christopher Rooney, Department of Neighborhood Development. These are part of D&D's neighborhood homes initiative, all the sites, all the sites include D&D land and funding and D&D is strong support of all of all the. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion to approve? Motion to approve. Second, is that the R&D design meeting? No, we don't need it. We'll just say approval. Okay, there is second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all. Thank you. Questions to cases calling BOA 9800824R Judson Street. It's companion case BOA 9800124 Judson Street. This is for 24 area. This is directly one car garage with violations atical 50 section 44. The garage needs to be at least four feet from all lot lines. This is for 24 Judson Street. This is directly new three family dwelling. This new triple deck will have a front porch, rear deck and roof deck to propose to attach one car garage. The violations atical 50 section 29, additional light areas and sufficient. Atical 50 section 29, the fluenia ratio is excessive. Atical 50 section 29, the usable open space is insufficient. Atical 50 section 29, the front yard is insufficient. Atical 50 section 29, the rear yard is insufficient. And atical 50 section 144, special provisions for corner lights and step back on Dean Street is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. My name is Danny Ware. I'm an architect. So I'm going to take this two thousand and one in three in three. What's the name of the record? Here are any handouts for the board. Okay. So what do you be speaking to? Your name and address? My name is Carl Ruyne. I'm just a 20 Judson Street. I'm the owner of this 24. Okay. So tell us what's being proposed. I'd like to just briefly start by introducing the owner because it's important to the case. The owner is a life-throw resident. Please get to the case and tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing to direct the new three family residents on this block which is a typical decor of what the positional design. We have a few listed before a few violations we were cited for. The initial water area is what we do of that. We assess where they are. The point eight is allowed before passing point five. In the local space we are short, nine week two square feet, a broken space. And then the fountain. We're the weekly person. It's part of the hand out. We've been present at the ground that shows our proposed development as compared to the existing properties on this block. This block, I'm sorry. And their relationship to the model, the model 7x from both Johnson Street and Westwood. Let me ask you a question. It looks like you're using both co-cuts, right? The co-consisting. Yes. And so what's the garage going to be used for? It's a single car. It's a single car. So that's how you meet your parking requirement. How are the plans, Mr. Arleck? I've heard you're fine. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chairman. I'm Elizabeth Boyk, Christine Brindale. Mayor's office and neighborhood services. We'd like to go on record and support. We held no butters meeting. They had full butters support. Thank you. Good morning, Ken DeDouble, one of the homeowners, a long time resident of the area, know the family, and we're in support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion to approve the 50 days on the view. Second. All over the favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set to block. We'll have the last case tonight. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Third. Redonductor is the guardian. iic? Saying Lucifer added a turn to finish, one satys recruit who would request the delivery foraction29.La ofth backend. In the stage of denkling TorRP. Dr. So we are proposing a third floor unit and it's not. The first floor unit. This is my family home. We live there. I was born there at the home. My mother owns the property and my whole family resides in the property. It does say for a full unit. Yes, oh, okay, sorry. And in the past, when I was younger, we split the talk floor units into two. So tell us about this unit. Now, what are the proposed sizes of each of the units? So we are proposing to split the unit and I have the contractor here just to help me with anything that is specific sizing. But we are proposing to split the unit just like the other floors as my mother is a senior and she doesn't need that much living space. Do you know the square footage? I would remember the same, this square footage, what it is right now. So it's a 5-per-minute, it's at 14 hundred square feet. You don't know basically both ways, so the FEO is not changing on it. No, so I just ask one question. So the current size of that unit is 1400 and you're splitting it in half essentially. All right, going to 791 square feet on one side. Okay. And going to 875 square feet on the other side. Okay, and how is parking being accommodated on the site? So we actually own the plot next door and we utilize that for parking. So 53a Dail Street, I have a small screen shot of what that, what it looks like. But the property, the plot for 55 Dail Street, it can hold four vehicles in the back end of the plot of 55 Dail Street. We own 53a which could hold an additional 10 vehicles on that plot of land which is already paved and you access it through the same driveway. So you come in and you either go straight or turn into parking. Oh, I was drawing for that. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and we'd like to go on record to support. We held in a butters meeting on August 1st, 2019 and we received 34 signatures of support from director butters. Some butters also felt like this parking was adequate. There's more than enough space for parking on the side lot. It was originally a five bedroom and they felt like splitting it up to small apartments would also help with some of the people that are looking to move into the area. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. My name is Weldon Bajor from Councillor Jayne's office. Councillor Jayne will like to go on record and support this project. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the board. Karen Foley, Councillor Osabi, George's office. We'd like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair and Members of the board, Paul Sullivan. That's the Councillor Michael Flair, the Councillor to go on record support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion or proof? Is there a second? Again. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, I'm going to go back to the G-Cut this morning. Let's see if Melrose places here. We do have the letter. I'm going to call it for the record. Calling BOA 986-9456 Melrose Street. There's Melrose Street, yeah. Christian, you want to go on the record? Sure. Madam Chair, Members of the board. Christian, similarly, bus garter trust. We also have the approval letter from bus to water and sewer. Councillor Osabi, a letter, Madam Chair. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for approval. Is there a second? Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The board will take a five-minute break and we convene at 10.30. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You This is for Tuesday, September 17th. Just a reminder, if you have a cell phone, please make sure it's off. If you need to have a conversation, please take it outside of the room. In conformance With the open meeting law, I'm informing you that this meeting is being live streamed. I see a number of new faces here. If you're here to speak and support our opposition to Project, put your name and address on the record and tell us why you're in support or an Opposition. If your concern has already been raised, are the reason For your support has already been raised, put your name and address on the record. We're Interested in fact finding, so use your chance at the mic to give us new information. Thank you Madam Chair. I want to call the 1030 hearings. Any deferrals with Drawls? House of the Address, please. 67, we'll call any avenue. For the record calling, POA 892-898-267-0-ColonYAB, name and address For the record. We're answering the attorney for the business address of 350 West Crog White in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, this is an article 80 small project that has been approved by the BBDA. However, we do need to present to Andrew Square a civic association at their October 9th meeting. Therefore, respectfully request a Dimmeral. May I have a motion, please? Motion for deferral. Is there a second? Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? They have a date of November 19th at 1130. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals with Drawls with 1030? Hearing none. I'll call the first case. Calling, POA 966-578-111-13H street. His H street here. Okay. This is a change of lockings from my five family in store with A to a five family in liquor store. No work to be done. The violation is article 68, section 7. liquor store use is conditional. Name and address for the record, please? Good morning. My name is Rashi Manglick with the Dermacol T and Miller at 28th State Street in Boston. This is my client, Indervaaghan Patel. He is the officer of Shri Kano Incorporated, which owns a store at 113H street. Jamie's variety. He's here today seeking your approval to add a conditional use permit for a liquor store to be added to the premises. There's no construction to be done. The applicant has owned the store for a couple of years now and would like to add beer and wine to the premises. He has several supporters in the area as well. These are petition. Please tell us about the project itself. So the store with takeout will continue to exist. Yes. But a portion of the store will be used to sell liquor. Yes. He'll maintain several grocery items in the store and just add a couple coolers and a couple shelves of beer and wine. It's an essential accessory use to the menus. Yes. It's not converting to a full-scale liquor store. Correct. Okay. And what are the hours of operation? Six to nine thirty. Everyday? Yes. Of course liquor sales on Sunday will start at 8 a.m. Okay. Sorry. I'm 10. 10 a.m. I'm sorry. Okay. How are the plans of the outlet? I don't know. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Chair and members of the board. I don't know what the plan is. The plan is to make sure that we have a lot of support. But we wouldn't support it if something were to change. I also want to recognize that we have 108 letters of support that people have reached out to me. I also want to recognize that we have two letters of opposition of direct-a-butters. But in what we determine is that it's more of a quality of life issue than something against these two coolers of alcohol. Thank you. I'm members of the board. My name is Jay Lansing. I live with my wife and three kids at 422 East Feth Street, which is just up the block from Jamie's variety. We've lived in our house now for nine years and for two years prior to that. I live just two blocks down. So we've been in the neighborhood a long time. The guys that run the store are true. It's a true neighborhood store. They're nice to everyone who comes in. They know everybody by name. They know what everybody buys. They're kind to the kids. You really couldn't ask for better neighbors. I really can't see any reason to be opposed to giving them a chance. Some of the reasons that my neighbors have cited in opposition is trash, which couldn't be further from a problem. I took a picture of the other morning when I was walking this, my car in the morning. Their trash is without exception every single week. It's stacked neatly in boxes. It looks a lot better than most of my neighbors. Excuse me. So go ahead. Okay, please. Thank you. It's just not an issue at all with these guys. Thank you. Thank you. They clean the sidewalk. They're great neighbors. They just want to have a chance to run a small business, some a small business owner. They should have a chance. And if there's other establishments around the people want to go, they can go. It's a free market. I don't see that as a reason to. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here? You're speaking in support, too? Good morning. I'm Josephine Stack, 552 Rees Ford Street. And I just want to reiterate everything that Jay said. The young people who are running this store are wonderful people. They're young immigrants, like I was myself one time. And they deserve a chance just like everybody else. And I am here to support it. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Representatives of elected officials first, please. Managode, the chair members of the board and a caledon from Councillor Flink's office. The Councillor would like to go and record in opposition to his proposal at the borders meeting. The meeting didn't go well. And the neighbors and our borders have concerns of quality of live issues. And the gate of heaven and everything with association is also in opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm on board Paul Sullivan. I'll be out of the city council lodge. My full clarity and council don't record in opposition. Due to the plethora of liquor stores in the area, the council does not feel that another store selling alcohol is appropriate at this location. I'd like to go and record in opposition. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Karen Foley from City Council and Lisa Asabi George's office. I attended the about his meeting. We were told that there would only be one cooler in the store. That's what they said. Everybody was surprised they were saying how can you make money from one cooler of beer and wine. But that's what the people were told. So we'd like to go and record in opposition to this project. There's enough beer and wine in South Boston. Thank you. Put your name and address on the records, sir. And give us bullet points about why you're in opposition. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Jack Cherry. I'm going to buy out the lifelong resident of South Boston. Come up to me in South Boston is 18 liquor stores. Okay. Can you tell me about this one place? This one, that's going to propose that. Well, the two colors. The problem is that we're inundated with liquor stores and we don't need them. And another point I'd like to make what I think is important. This gentleman here does not own the building. When we're at the butter's meeting, I brought this up. It's a change of occupancy. He is not the owner of the building. Okay. So I don't know how he can sit there and try to get a change of occupancy when he's not the owner. I don't know where the owner is. At the last of the butter's meeting, the owner did not show up. So they said, let's have another butter's meeting. I couldn't attend it. When I asked this lady, who are you representing? Are you representing the owner of the building or the liquor store? Now, I don't know how this works, but on a change of occupancy, I would assume that the owner would be the person. This gentleman is a store-wentra. Okay. And I think it's a very important point. So your opposition is based on the number of stores in the neighborhood. There's five within a third of a mile. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Council of Flint, Florida, and Georgia against it. Okay. There's a lot of people that couldn't make it today. He has all these signatures. He put them on the store for people to sign. Okay. So I hope you go with the council. Can I see somebody else in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record and tell us what your opposition is based on. I'm Christina Dutty. I live at 434 East 5th Street. I believe that either four or five doors up from the store. I don't have anything against this gentleman. He's a perfectly nice gentleman. It's a great thing to have a corner store. I do think it is a quality of life issue. I personally don't think I want to live four doors up from a liquor store. And I have seen one other store that changed from a convenience store, a local community convenience store that's at the corner of East 5th and K. And it expanded and expanded. And if you go there now, it's all booze. They have one shelf of stuff you might want at a convenience store. But nobody's going in there for that. Number one. Number two, I don't understand why South Boston has to have more liquor stores than any other neighborhood. I mean, I go to other neighborhoods. I'm in South Boston. I've lived in the back bay. I've lived in South Boston for 26 years. But before that, I've lived in the back bay. I've lived in the south end. You don't have a liquor store or beer and wine store in every corner. We live in a residential area. I moved there because it was a residential area. Otherwise, I would have lived on Broadway. There are 11 liquor stores within or beer and wine stores within five or ten minutes from this store. And this gentleman, I'm not trying to prevent him from being in business. This is not his only business. There are other businesses as well. So I'm not trying to prevent him from being in business. I hope he stays as a convenience store. I hope that store continues to exist. I think it's an excellent place. But I'm not in favor of it. In addition, we have a lot of millennials moving into South Boston. And they're wonderful. They're great tenants. They're also much bigger, excuse me, drinkers than we are. We've had to go out twice in the last month to speak to young neighbors that were imbibing a lot of booze in the middle of the night. That were really, really loud. We have old people. We have young people. This is a neighborhood with families on it. This isn't just a place with 25, 26, and 30-year-olds on it. And I really don't see any reason to make it even easier for them to get alcohol when they can go out to Broadway or wherever else. They can go to the clubs. There are clubs everywhere. I basically can't, I don't feel like there's anywhere we can go if you're my age, which I'm in my 60s, to have a meal or a drink that's not really loud and really alcohol-infused. So I have nothing against millennials. I like our neighbors. But I don't think we need to make alcohol any more accessible to the folks in our area. Thank you. Thanks very much. It's so clarification. Yes. It sounds like there is a sense that is it one color or two colors? Two doors. So it's one color with two doors? So it's just one color. Yes. Okay. And the rest of your store will stay as a variety store, correct? And you sell foods and all kinds of everything else in that store. Convenience items, some toiletries, yes. Okay. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? Did you want to speak? Okay, please. I have a roll call. No. No, please hustle, please. And to put your name and address on the record and tell us if you're in support or opposition. I'm opposed to it. My name is David Martin. I do a 440 East Fist Street. Two doors up. Okay. Okay, you're opposed. Thank you. Now, they give all, I understand. So give us new information that we haven't heard from the other two people who spoke. Very enough. Okay. Very enough. Now, I know they give all of the license. And the idea is to build up self-hosted in the communities to have more people commanded and make it more accessible and more lively. But this is a corner store, not a nightclub, not a lynching, whatever. This is just a corner store. And my daughter lives there. Now, when you bring a liquor store, or sorry, what do you call liquor store, in, you also bring the traffic in. Yeah. That doubles and triples because there's the one down the street, as they mentioned, that it's congested. But the only is, it's a knife street, there's an old folks on there. And there's plenty of off, if you want to dump back in area that you can go. But this is a residential area. So my point is, I know you give out licenses to people. But this is a corner store, not, and here's, and there's been a history of a corner store bringing in. I just want to sell a couple of six packs of beer to change you more. So that's all I want to say. Thank you. If I may address a couple of the points that were brought out. Yes. I did reach out to the Gate of Heaven Association. They never got back to me. And so, you know, we were happy to discuss any concerns they had. But I had never heard from them. Additionally, as you know, I filed a landlord authorization letter. So the change of occupancy is authorized. Can I ask a question, Madam Chair? Yes. There seems to be some concern about whether this would gradually morph from a convenience store into a full-blown liquor store. Is there any way that you can provide assurances that it is this one cooler with two doors? And that's it, and that there won't be further encroachment onto the convenience store which seems to be. I'm sorry. We can put that on the provide list. Well, I want to first ask the proponent. Sure. I'm sure my client can provide an affidavit. Once we, if we are approved and go to licensing, then we can make some condition with them as well. We're happy to work with you all to make those assurances. They have a motion, please. I make a motion to approve with the proviso that the approval be limited to one cooler of the R1. And to this petitioner only? And to this petitioner only. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. The next case, calling BOA 982, 8449 Douglas Street. This is to add a 12 by 12 roof deck and conjunction. I'm sorry. The violation of the Article 68 section 29, the roof structure restricted to district, access must be through a roof hatch only. Article 68 section 8. Really setback with client. It's insufficient. The legal steer to be at least 15 feet minimum away from the law line. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm members of the board, Attorney John Pogini, 10, 4, 0, the entry. Whitney is Antonio Ferraro, who's the owner of this project. So this came before this board back in October. At that point, there was some concern we had to direct a butter. Could you take your conversations outside, please? Thank you. May I proceed? Go ahead. So this came before this board back in October. At that point, there was a direct butter, who was opposed, who was some confusion. He was opposed at the time to some balconies. We met with him after that point. He'd swayed to him because the project had approved. We met with him and we had eliminated the roof decks at that time. He played a total of the bloods and roof decks. So we went to Shadow's studies and things like that and worked with him. He was the only person who opposed it. He was the package that you will have before you explain. There is a support letter, Brendan Donacue, who's the direct butter. I think it was for the reason in terms of the work. And now, please go to the full screen. So the proposed roof deck is only accessible to the top unit? That is correct. Okay. Is it visible from the street or is it not? No, it's in the back window. Because the proposed front elevation seems to show it as very, well, I suppose it's for or not. That was a plan, Mr. Ellic. Thank you very much. Questions from the board. Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? I have them, Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon, the Airsoft and the Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go and record and support. We have an invite us meeting on August 8th and all the letters for in support. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? The BRA is proposing that this be approved with the provides of the design review, but you're going through design review anyway on the rest of the project. Well, there was no design. I would do a design review specifically, building itself that we know exterior change. So may I have a motion please? Thank you. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. All you need to do is take the following VOA 984 269 416 to 418 West Broadway. This is Otto's pizza, a change of octave from commercial retail to restaurant. Violation to Article 27S, Section 5. This is in the South Boston iPod. And Article 68, Section 7, the restaurant use is conditional. Name and address full of record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Welcome, new members of the board. Attorney Nick Sizzula, McDermott, Quilty and Miller, 28 State Street, Suite 802 here in Boston. With me today, Sean Ryan, who is the Chief Operating Officer of Eastern Point Hospitality, LLC, DBA, Otto Pizza. Just passed around a brief packet to familiarize you with the proposal. Otto Pizza is proposing to open a new location at 416 West Broadway in one of the lower level suites right behind Cafe Nero. It's the first floor of an existing commercial building to the corner of West Broadway and F Street. There are numerous other commercial uses in that building, including Cafe Nero, Verizon, Beton Fitness, Carve Nails Lawn on the upper floor. We're proposing again a first class pizza restaurant with 33 seats. Space is approximately 1500 square feet on the ground floor, 538 square feet of storage space in the basement. There's no alcohol service or liquor license proposal as part of this pizza restaurant. This is just for the change of use to the restaurant note takeout. Yes, this is a restaurant use. They will not cross the 75% threshold in the ISD commissioners bulletin. Is the space handicapped accessible? It is. How are the customers to all of them? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? This is the board, Heli Bell, Meers App, and the neighbors services. I'd like to go and support. We held the butter's meeting on August 21st. Everybody was in support. All their questions were answered. I also want to point out that they held one of the most thorough and detailed butter's meetings we've ever had. Thank you. Managul De Chien, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go and record and support the meeting when fine. And the same Vincent Snagoho association is also in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Saby George's office. We'd like to go and record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you so much. Following BOA 9-8-9-3-4-2-171 K-Stree. This is to extend a third-story addition over an existing second floor, extend roof deck and headhouse, pull renovations to an existing single-family dwelling. The violation of Article 27S, Section 5. This is in the south-west and iPod. Article 68, Section 29, roof structure restrictions. Article 68, Section 8, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the front yard is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the side yard is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address, further racket, please. Good morning, I'm Chairman. The floor is passed and passed last. I'm going to put the end of the state in Boston. I'm going to turn the cockpit to my right as an active general, to be the owner of this existing single-family dwelling. The proposal is to cut right away from existing single-family and to have an addition above the second floor of the garage, which has an existing living area. You see on the existing floor plans, there is an area of the garage on the second floor. This proposal is to extend the third floor, which will out partially include 34 feet of living area, to this single-family home, with a graduation include substantial reconfiguration of the interior of the home, and rebuilding of the existing living deck to make it more attractive. There's an existing headhouse, which will be raised slightly, to increase the head height access to get out. It's very short and squatting out and you can't get out very handily. But it remains at below 40 feet, which is the maximum height for this subject. The zoning issues are iPod permits, because it includes substantial renovation of 1000 and more square feet. I can actually use permits for the roof structure, and dimensional variance is first being FAR increase, which will go from 2.0 to 2.9. And we were cited for front side and rear yard insufficiency, those are existing conditions. The new box on top of the second floor doesn't expand footprint for increase the degree of those non-conquiries, but nevertheless, it's cited by ISD, because the policy expansion of the existing structure. This project before this board in their recent past? No. There was a different non-chair. There was 175 case features that adjacent to this, there were two senior family structures directed there on a properly-versed scale. This is an entirely different project. How are the plans for this to all of you? I want to ask you a question about the headfirst of all, who is the roof deck accessible to? It's an existing, it's the same family house, the occupants. That's going to stay. You said that the height of the headhouse is being increased because it's not adequate headroom. It's either less than 6.8. When you go up, there are some stairs. It's less than 6.8. It is. You have to duck to get out of the headhouse. So there's the expanding and so on. Okay, I mean 6.8 is much required in terms of stairway and curve ahead. So the architect designed any compliance with the code? How long has that headhouse been in existence? Did that roof deck and headhouse come off on this floor? Because roof structure restrictions are supposed to come here, right? It's very old. Yeah? The condition of existing deck and the condition of that headhouse, it's in the old house and those conditions are quite poor. So the single family, was there any thought given to using a hatch, placing the old headhouse with a hatch? The existing headhouse being there, the solution was to just make it. No, I understand that. I understand that's solution to some of the drawings. I'm asking if there was another solution considered. Given the thoughts of this board, was any consideration given to that? I think you've been before. Have you been before us? No. No? Okay. Any thought given to that? It was decided that the expansion existing headhouse was the solution. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go and record and support health and meeting on August 12th and all the others concerns were addressed and everybody was in support of the meeting. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillon from Councillor Freenc's Office. The Councillor would like to go and record and support the others meeting well. We have her knowledge of concerns coming from the neighbors or our voters. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, I have a motion to approve the VPD design review but I'm given that it's a single family at home and their voters not a code requirement to have a headhouse. I'm asked that the designer view... Eliminate the headhouse? Look at possibility of eliminating the headhouse or replacing with a hat. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling an XK, calling BOA 970669-7988B-E3rd Street. This is to construct a rare edition and one story vertical edition on an attached single family dwelling and extend living space to the basement. The violation is Article 27S, Section 5. This is in the self-post and iPod. Article 68, Section 20 and the root structure restrictions and Article 68, Section 8. Side yatch is insufficient. Name an address for the record police. All right, Marry 7988B-E3rd Street. Is there a question? We have a one-year question. I'll leave it to you. What's your proposal to give? Well, we would like to just mention that we'd like to request a referral at the time and we placed our appeal. We got the support and had that for the last year and a half of one of the direct contact with others. We've learned in the past month that concerns of the board and opposition has come forward from that. We'd like to ask for the referrals to try and mark them. And maybe we'll leave my guide with the minimum concern that has not been responsive to us and try to talk to her about it. You may have a motion, please. Motion to be found. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? We can get you in November 12th. We have a box on information today. We can get that to none. I'll go on to them. Okay. Okay. See you in November 12th at 11.30. Thank you. Calling your ex-case. Calling B-O-A-983-06028-Fenway. This is a change of ox from a grooming house to a grooming house with two residential dwelling units. Change to increase a grooming house to 42 rooms. Construct a fifth and six-story vertical addition and roof deck on an existing footprint. The removal of the fire escape balcony in Stayoway. Would you like to ask the local case? No problem. Call it back in. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-962-962-01860 South Street. This is an improvement to the office builder phase one. It's a reconfiguration of the restroom. Close two to seven. Phase two is an extension of egress Stayoway to the roof from levels 11 and 12. And it added stop. And for one elevated to roof level, build a roof deck for tenants. Phase three. Building a lobby addition and door and while reconfiguration. The violation is out of the 44th, section six. The new roof deck is proposed. I'm sure this will be for the record. Good morning. Good morning. We have so many requirements for working on having us with the transformable line. We have the possibility to be in close contact with the floor. So here, I did just notice that I was looking at the notice that this was for a variant. It should be, I believe, for conditional use of permanent safety sections 44 to 6. For a roof top deck, this is within the ladder. Call us about that roof deck. This is a roof deck that will be added. This is going to be financial. And it will be added. It will be the roof. The tenants are building only. And Mr. Kappelman, I don't actually just tell you a few more of the roof. I'll just add it. So Jason came from the restroom. We have deck. It's about 45th anniversary. We have a roof deck. We're only used for tenants in the building. It's not a finished public. I think the service operations are from the KAM morning to the 6th morning. We're also close on our temporary first to the end of the year. Summer and the boys in the spring and May are here with the failure of the weather. We put it in our packet. Some pictures for you. We also have a board that shows that you know we are coming to surround the area. It's the deck visible from the street. We might include the district and the other association. There are pooled areas. There are pooled areas. We also are contributing pretty kind of dollars. We need to include the district for their parking place. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. We're not interested in that. Any good, Danny? Any good clear? Any good clear? Any good Sahyun Richmond? Any con ellosiami? Any questions from the board? can anybody hear just speaking sweetread the proposal? Please put your name and address on the record? Good afternoon, our good mordid board. Good afternoon, our good mordid board, please. Anything in the top, please? Boston Mass, or 211-2840. And I do face, my unit face is the applicant's building. I am in support of the applicant's proposal, but I did discuss with them my concerns of anything ever getting blown off the roof deck. They short me they have large heavy furniture that will get stored during storms, no litter, no excessive noise. We live in a noise-prone neighborhood, so no, you know, booming music, no laser light shows, and I'm hoping since it's probably relatively protected airspace, no drones or flying cars. OK. Otherwise, I'm in support. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Sharon Members of the Board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support. We have from the leather district neighborhood association, and they are also in support of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a speaking in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair members of the Board. My name is Feesie Shrewd with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We are not speaking in opposition, but we would like to ask for a short deferral, so we can have a conversation with the applicants. Thank you. Based on additional community support, potentially. Prof. Sorry. Thank you. So could that happen after today's meeting? Should there be approval on something pretty, pretty low-key? It's specifically related to the roof deck, so if the board is able to consider them coming up for the next hearing, I know that it is pretty tight, but we should be able to resolve any concerns within that time. Thank you. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion for the federal base on the request of the airs office. May I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. May I have a pose? Motion carries. The date next meeting. Yeah. Yeah, it would be October 8th at 1130. Thank you. Calling mixed case. We're going to be going to this. Calling BOA. 946103464 Sumner Street. This is the change of oxygen from a three-family to a four-family, also to renovate the building, including the rear and four-story addition. The violation is Article 2070, Section 5. This is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 56. Last pre-facke loading, none is proposed. Article 53, Section 8, the use is forbidden. Article 53, Section 9. Additional, insufficient additional order here for a dwelling unit. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. Article 53, Section 9, the maximum number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, the maximum allowed height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side-yard setback. Article 53, Section 54, screening and buffering required. And Article 53, Section 52, root structure restrictions. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, turning left, we're trading this kind of an address of 15 broad street. So we have the address, that's out of the last minute. And Josh Pederman from City Realty, the owner of the developer of the property. Before you show them the plan, I just want to note we've made modifications of a little change on the project that you have, the plans that show that. But seeking still to change the occupancy from the three-family residential running to a four-family residential dwelling, I want to move to our original proposal at a fourth unit on the top of the building, that sends some work in the community, come off into fourth unit and basement garden level. There's a love grade. We'll also renovate the building and then be fully spread there. It's a basement unit in the east-baston iPod of Fabenius. I'm sorry? Not this area. It is of Fabenius. Yeah, I'm sorry. It does mention iPod of public of Italy. It is. And for Benius. I just want to make sure it's in. OK. The unit breakdown in the lower level would be a 772 square foot, one bedroom, one and a half bath. That would be the garden level unit. All of the other units are existing, three bed, two bath, with a rear addition on the building. So there would be a 16-foot addition in the rear that would make those units a little bit larger. We've worked with the community to eliminate and modify this project, which was eliminating the fourth floor and doing so, have taken away those violations for height and stories, height and feet, and front yard with no fourth-story addition on the budget. I will go over the violations, Madam Chair. Use is a violation, so it's a three-family and we're proposing four. Lot area for additional dwelling, 1,000 required, we're at 500. FAR, 1.0, we're at 1.29 currently, would be increasing to 1.8. The psi yard is a preexisting violation. The structure would not change. There would be no change in the psi yard. Open space, 300 square feet for dwelling unit, which would equal 1,200 square feet, or a 255 per dwelling unit at 1,021, and one parking space would be required for the new dwelling unit. We're not able to provide that. And what's the total square footage of the addition? The total row square foot is 162 square feet for floor, that is 648, total. And there's no roof deck. And there's no roof deck. OK. How would the plans, Mr. Olin? Roger, I put the elevation shows from the basement floor to floor 7 foot, what's the ceiling height of the intermoves ceiling height? That's 666, now. 666? Yes. And all utilities will be in each unit. Are there any other jewels? Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this? Mr. Stone? Yes. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lena Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. During the community process, they'll develop or address the concern of the abutters, and also got the strong support from Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. Mr. Councillor, would also like to go on record and support. So, anybody here to speak in opposition? Yes. Just a question. Do you, are these supposed to be rentals? Or, you know, we've seen your projects all over the city. Do they generally go for sale or are they rentals? So this president would be condos for sale? This will be condos. OK. And it's very full of board furniture, some condos, some rental. OK. May I have a motion, please? The motion to approve. I don't think we need any design to do. Is there a second? All those in favor? Bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. I'm going to call the Fenway Caseback, calling B-O-A-983-06028 Fenway. This is a change of arc from a rooming house to rooming house for two residential dwelling units, change to increased rooming house to 42 rooms, constructed fifth and sixth-story vertical addition, with roof deck on an existing footprint. The removal of the fire escape balcony and stairway. The violation of Article 29, this is in the G-Pod applicability, Article 32 Section 4. This is in the G-Pod applicability, an Article 66 Section 38 roof structure and building height, Article 66 Section 9, the fluidity ratio is excessive, Article 66 Section 9, the building height is excessive, and Article 66 Section 9, the ray god, is insufficient. Name and address, filler, acutely. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Attorney John Pogini, 10-4 of Zerode and Gratry, with me is the architect Adam Grassi. So the proposal before you is to add two stories that will be two units above an existing 42 unit rooming house. That's currently 42 units. Correct, and it has been used such for over 100 years. This was a rooming house. It's owned by the church, by the cat, the sisters of. It was previously owned by a holding company for a fraternity related to MIT. It is currently owned by a type of developer, some owners and projects, some other and frantic partners. So, as far as violations go, we have G-Pod, we are working with the parks department on that. G-Cod, we have an approval for that. Roof structure, building height in the statehood, any increase in height, triggers that variance as well as the building height is excessive. FAR, we are actually under FAR. FAR is a floor. We are at 3.37 and raryod, its efficiency is pre-existing. Can you please hold on for a minute? Absolutely. Because the mics, I guess, are not working. Can you guys aren't having? No. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. This one, eh? Okay, ready to go. Sorry. Thank you. I'll just go through that quickly again, the violations. G-Pod parks, we are working with them right now. G-Cod, we have approval from groundwater trust, roof structure and building height. Every time there is an increase in the size of the building in the statehood, it triggers that. FAR, we are actually below FAR. We are at 3.37, raryod's insufficient. We have a lot of things outside the building of lobsters, that's all extending, pre-existing, non-conforming. The ones who are a community process, I provided the... Dr. Colton, tell us about the residential dwelling units. What are their sizes? So the two new units will be approximately 2,800 square feet each, and the three bedroom units. And those units actually will be for the two owners of the building. They are actually moving in on-site. What was about the 42 rooms? Who are the general occupants of those rooms? The 42 rooms are... That was an existing occupancy, and it will be operated as a temporary lodging house by the owners and the new residents of the upper units. Will they be affordable? Or, I mean, what's a lodging house today? I don't know, is that an Airbnb? I don't know what it is today. It can be that. It's covered by a variety of resources to discover the units, but it's typically out of towners. My clients, the owners, run several of these throughout Boston, and the typical occupant is perhaps a visiting medical student in town for two months for a training seminar or something like that. So it is a temporary use. So they are roughly 253-hundred square foot units. They feature... And so, tell me, do they all have individual bathrooms? They do have individual baths. And just to be clear, this was permitted under a separate permitting process by right. So currently we're applying for the expansion on the roof. Yes. Madam Chair, could I just address one quick thing? Through the community process, you guys have a letter of non-opposition from the Fenway CDC, and you'll see this MOU attached to that. One of the requirements throughout the community process with this was not to be rented out to students. And the owner has agreed to that as part of the member of the understanding. Undergrads, a grad student is being here at the end. Here at the end. Okay. How about the roof deck? The roof deck is private use for the two units on the top two floor. And just, it will not be accessible by the occupants at the lower stories of the building. And how will it be accessed? It will be accessed through a head house. Okay. How are the plans for staff? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Christian Simonelli, Boston Groundwater Trust. This case was actually before you in February. It was G-Card only at the time. The board approved it at that time. The Water and Super Approval Letter has not changed because those calculations are just based on the area of the building and that that hasn't changed. Thank you. We do have a lot of Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, my name is Shinnees Pementel with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant completed a successful community process in which they received full support from the immediate butters. The applicant's met with the Fenway Civic Association and the Fenway Community Development Corporation. I attended the F-C-D-C meeting on September 4th to make sure I cleared up any concerns regarding the community process. Both the F-C-D-C express concerns. And we appreciate the applicant's willingness to accommodate the community's requests. However, I would like to make it explicitly clear that many of the concerns expressed were not regarding the proposal nor the variance is requested. In fact, the support was expressed towards the architectural design and historical integrity. And we asked applicants continue working, continue developing a neighborly relationship with the community. And given this information, the Mayor's Office would like to go on record and support of the proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak at opposition? May I have a motion, please? It's much too approved. There are seconds. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Calling VOA934885199 Trenton Street. This is a recondition with Roof Deck, extend living space into the basement and change the document from a two to four unit. The violation of the article 9, Section 1, reconstruction extension of a non-conforming building. Article 27T, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 56, insufficient parking design. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient additional, a lot of area or unit. Article 53, Section 8, Section 9. Insufficient open space dwelling unit. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side yet setback. Article 53, Section 9 excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 54 screening and buffer and required. And Article 53, Section 52, Roof Structure Restriction. Name and address full of record play. We now have Chair, three to the members. Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street East Boston on behalf of the petitioner. Brekkle. Now, Chair, this is a proposal for the complete rehabilitation of existing two family dwelling. As you can see from the packet of materials that I provided the board. This building is in condemnable condition and it's located in the Eagle Hill Square section of East Boston. Our proposal would be for a complete rehabilitation and renovation along with a vertical addition that would result in a change of occupancy from a two to a four foot. Family dwelling. Each of these units would be reprogrammed. The lower units would be duplexed style with living space located in the basement with main living space located in the first level. Units 3 and 4 be located, or located at a second third level and designed as flats. Of course, because of the extent of the renovations that are being proposed, this building would have a complete upgrade to the life safety which doesn't presently exist. We are able to include two plus parking spaces in the rear of the property. There is a proposed roof deck as well that would be exclusive to Unit 4. And that roof deck would be accessed by Hatch. No head houses proposed based upon commentary that we heard from the Eagle Hill Civic Association during the community process. Upon completion, this is intended for home ownership and would be owned as individual condominium units. We have a good opportunity to present this extensively to both the Eagle Civic Association as well as the Abutters. And we do have a favorable letter of support from Eagle Hill. With respect to the unit breakdown, these are generous sized two bedroom and three bedroom units. The lower levels range between 1,000 almost 1100 square feet up to about 1,700 square feet for two bedrooms. And the unit 3 and unit 4 are around 11 to 14 hertz square feet for three bedrooms on the upper levels. And with respect to the relief that's necessary, the secretary correctly identified what is contained in the public notices is this would be a reconstruction extensive and non-conforming building because of the existing 3 F 2000 sub district and the zoning dimensional regulations that are applicable under Article 53. With respect to screening buffering, we obviously can address that through the BPD design review process of this board where the grant relief. And then with respect to the additional items, they're all triggered basically based upon the proposed renovation and addition and fit out of the building. As you can see from the design that we've incorporated based upon the architects concept for this is consistent and size and scope of what is adjoining on each side of the property. This would have the feel of a traditional triple decker in the Eagle Hill neighborhood based upon the comments that we did here through the community process. Eagle Hill anticipates or expects that the BPD design review process would take into account the traditional design elements that are usual and customary for the Eagle neighborhood. I'm happy to answer any questions. The roof deck is only accessible to the top unit. Number four. Number four for that. And what's the size? The house is accessed by hatch. And the floor ceiling height in the basement? In excess of at least 8 feet. How are the plots installed? Any crossings from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? The roof deck is 12 by 12. Good morning, Madame Chair and members of the board. Lina, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, I would like to go on the recording support. During the community process, the developer addressed many of the concerns of the abatters. Also, there was a strong support of this project during the abatters meeting and Eagle Hill civic association boarded in support of this project. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair and members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council or Lidia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I'll show you a proof of VPD and his interview. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. This is a restaurant out to a seating for 22 with food and alcohol service, the Violet Statical 9 section 1, extension of a restaurant used within a residential sub district. Aimanadjou is further actually. The morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Richard Lane, the people of the people of the country on behalf of the petitioner. We feel friterally the owner and operator in our tavern. Madame Chair, we anticipated proceeding this morning with respect to the proposal before the board. We're informed before the hearing that the mayor's office neighbor's service has received some additional concerns or comments from a butters. As this is not a time sensitive petition, the outdoor seating is seasonal and likely to not ramp up until next April. We're happy if the board is so inclined to take a short deferral to try to work on additional items that come up with the butters. We have a motion. Motion to the court. Is there a second? Second. All those in thirded. Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. We can do December 3rd or December 17th. We'll do December 3rd. Thank you very much. December 3rd, 1130. Following the next case, calling B.O.A. 956105-200-William McClellan Highway. This is a change of oxygen to an auto body shot and billed a 45 by 25 foot addition to the garage. The violation of the vehicle 27T-5. This is in the east Boston iPod and Article 53 Section 15. Our repair garage is forbidden. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. I'm Albert Farron and I represent the owner, Steven D. Simone Trustee. With me is Carlos Pereira. He is the Lese Eduardo Sadovati of the property and question in Mr. Hal Abrams as well. What is the current use? I'm sorry. What's the current use? Well, since 1979, the property has been used as an auto body shot. There's a dispute between the ISD and Mr. D. Simone the owner about whether or not permits were properly issued for an auto body shot. But there is absolutely no question about that for almost 40 years, thousands and thousands of cars have been prepared. They are stored, they are painted, they are. The city has taxed the property based on this use. The city officials, including from the fire department and from the ISD, have continuously over the last 40 years come to the property and approved of its use and the safe use of paints and other flammables. Okay, so given that background, tell us about the proposed addition? Sure. The proposed addition is to the garage. I have, obviously, but it might be easier just to pass them out. Yeah, if you want to show it. I think the best one is to show them. I think as we showed on this. Please focus through this. Yeah, sure. So the first page shows where the property is located, McCullen Highway, Route 1A, Southbound heading into, heading into Boston. I'm sure you all know the area. It's filled with commercial uses. There is an auto body shot at the corner of Ashford Street and McCullen Highway that's been there for several years. And in 2017, this board approved a medical marijuana facility on the abutting property at 220 McCullen Highway. The first page shows the plot plan and it shows the existing building end to the side of it, it shows the garage. And the garage, as it currently exists, is about 415 square feet. The proposal is to enlarge the garage to something on the order of 1170 square feet. And it's that proposal that triggers the iPod relief. And tell us about the couple of that effect parking or anything else. It doesn't appear that it will. Respectfully it won't. In fact, it will allow fewer cars to be parked outside and more cars to be parked inside and worked on. That's the whole purpose of adding to the garage. Okay. Follow the plan, Mr. Oleg. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair and members of the board, in a tremorly with the mayor's office of neighborhood services, I would like to go on the recurring support during the community process that were not concerns about the proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair and members of the board, Ricardo Patrón from the Office of City Council, or Lady Edwards, the council would also like to go on record and support. I'm going to get to speak in our position. We have a motion, please. Can we have screening and buffering across along the MacLean Highway? Okay. The designer, please. That's up to you. Yes. It's the answer a second. Thank you. All those in favour? Bye. Any opposed? Motion carries. And I'm assuming since you're abiding the creek, you know that you have other processes. Yes. We do. Thank you very much. Thank you. Following the last case for 10-30, calling B-8954-504-30 Orleans Street. This proposal involves constructing a new two-family residential with parking for 1,008 square feet in the rail. The violation of Article 25, Section 5. This is in the flood hazard district applicability. Article 53, Section 9. The large size directed to a family dwelling unit is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The minimum amount with requirement is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The minimum amount of frontage is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The flow-de-air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The minimum usable open space is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The minimum front-yard setback is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The minimum side-yard setback is insufficient. Article 23, Section 9. The minimum rear-yard setback is insufficient. Article 27, Section 5. This is in the East Boston High Park. Name and address further accurately. Is it turning out the goal group 183 State Street, Boston, now? Is it shooting? Can I have a witty today? I have a witty today. Mr. O'Biggly-O, who is the father of the developer, who are father and son-in-team. So tell us what you proposed. We're proposing to build a two-family house. If you may, we know the drawings you have are kind of small. I tried to magnify a class that could lead the unit size of my main. Mr. Talkers through it. Because what I'll tell you the bottom line concern I have is that this is in a flood hazard district. And I'm assuming there's no living space in the basement. There's no basement. There is no basement. There is no living basement. This is a rendering of the proposed building. So it's on the slide? No, it's going to be 14 feet up in the edge. It's going to be a two-carriage. I'm talking a two-carriage. A two-year-its, a legal plant, showed that certainly this shows the map. The name is comprained, but I'll leave it to you. So if you look on this one, which is large, it clearly shows the HVAC systems are installed using modern technology. 14 feet above ground level, about units. And the Canadian Board Association, and I don't want you to receive the letter because it was only just said, but the Canadian Board Association. I have the question. The Canadian Board Association wrote it. The community appreciates the design and the building, which is in keeping with the neighbors, makes good use of this very small thousand eight square foot block, which otherwise is a vacant lot. And what they can do is track and see how can we reach and reach your own imagination. I'm sure, but if the property owner is diligent, I'm sure they would maintain the property well. Right, but in the meantime, let me, Jeff, I have a question for you. Since the violation is flood has a district, what does that mean? Are they asking for a lease from the flood has a district? Yes. Okay. But we think we've avoided that issue, but you don't have any residential units, no mechanical structures, nothing there. It's just a flood hell elevation and that location. Do you know if it's having feet in this? I think I do. Yes. We're looking at the load. That's what I'm saying. Will you be on there? Yes. I'm on the line. Is there a drawing? Okay. Any questions? Any more? Thank you. I feel like I have tried to see more of the proposal. There was a building there. If you did, it's a problem. Okay. This is a series of multiple clients. It should be a nice one. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in support of this? This first floor elevation is 24 feet above board. Selected officials for us, please. Representative, elected officials, please. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Lina Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And I would like to go on the recording support. During the community process, this has a strong support from the abares, as well from the Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association, that has a strong support of the design. Thank you. Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia, words to the councilor, I'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? This is not for us. There's no resident in support. The resident who is in support, this speaks to Sillian Slay, and he needs to be for himself. Hold on. Hold on. I'm trying to figure out who's chair of this meeting here. What? Okay. Thank you. Are you speaking in opposition? Okay. Please go ahead in opposition. Thomas Garvey of 137 Webster Street, East Boston. I don't believe this lot size is credible as a two-family residence. My feeling, and the word on the street, is that's going to be Arabic and Bees. So I would hope that we could get a little discovery here and understand that this is intended as an owner, and that's a kind of occupied residence, if it's intended as a rental, or what exactly the intent is of this very tiny lot in which you're claiming you can squeeze two-family residences. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else in opposition? And we want to recognize one resident who is here in support, but it's not fluent in English. What says addressed, do you have it? I mean, the power of Graziano has support for the people of the radio. Thank you. Thank you. So are these rentals or... Yes, they're rentals. Okay. Okay, so looks like these are one-bedrooms. Five. What's the... Five-bedroom-shipping. Five-room-shipping. You need the blow-off. No, good. Thanks. And motion, please. Motion took proof. BB is under view. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye. Your opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Mr. Henry. I need better carry on. Take a break, or you want to continue? Just ask for the proposal. I'm going to call the 1130s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Deferrals and withdrawals only. Are you deferring, sir? Are you withdrawing? Address, please. For the record calling DOA 94076164, a name and address for the record, please. Tom, Thomas Piet, 34th Century Lane Milton. And what's the recent pay-out request? We were originally scheduled back in July, and it was deferred because they wanted some more, they wanted me to meet with a group called Bellnell, who the mayor's office was not familiar with. So we had trouble meeting with them because somebody's sister died. Somebody was on vacation, so we met just before the, just before I went away on vacation. There just hasn't been a lot of time to... You haven't been able to connect, okay? May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date for... We can squeeze you in on the November 12 meeting at 1130. Thank you. Address, please. 181 cold-rored street. He's Boston. For the record calling DOA 892077181-183-Colored Street. A name and address for the record, please. 181 monahan. 18 Rock Island Road. Quincy. And what are you requesting at defer? We're requesting at defer. We had our... It's a BPDA public hearing on September 10th last week, in the comment period, in December 24th. For the public hearing. We'd like to defer to the next available date if possible. This is for 19 residential units. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Motion to the board. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Jeff, when you anticipate this, we'll go to the board. Party went to. It's already at the board. Okay? So if it's gone to the board, why do we need a deferral? Just wanted to be here on the record for deferring, because we had a date scheduled for today. I'm sorry? We had a ZBA date scheduled for today, so we just wanted to be on the record. But you've been approved by the BPDA, so why do you need a deferral? I'm not going to approve by the BPDA. I thought you were saying you went so time to time. We had the public hearing to time pretend with the neighborhood. Okay, okay. Okay, so there's a motion. There's a second of all those in favor? Aye. And the date, please? The earliest we're going to get you in is 1112. Here are 1112 at 1130. Thank you very much. Okay? Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Okay. The board will take a five minute break, and we'll resume at 1145. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You For us case for 1130, calling B-O-A-95925671 Stanton Street. Okay. This is new construction of a three family in a vacant lot. Violation, article 65, section 9, the lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, section 9, additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 65, section 9, a lot withers insufficient. Article 65, section 9, a lot frontages insufficient. Article 65, section 9, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 65, section 9, the building height is excessive and stories. Article 65, section 9, usable open spaces insufficient. Article 65, section 9, the building height is excessive and feet. Article 65, section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 65, section 9, side yard is insufficient. Name and address, full of record please. Alex Edwards and his 71stanton Street. The Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management, Department of Management and Management, Department of Management, Point Deals, свои 봐요, reviewed at the Rock Nibhud Association in the Covenants Square Council. We did hold in the buttons for this proposal. Why we do understand their quality of life concerns from the rights side of butter, because of the side yard that was flag for the architect who did say he looked into fixing that. But at this time, we do not find any reasons to oppose this three family going into this 3F lot. The Rock Group in the Covenants Square Council both gave us letters of support for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Bourd, Dustin Gardner, and behalf of City Council President on the right-cambals office. We'd also like to go and record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Please put your name and address on the records, sir. And tell us why you're in opposition. I am one chair. My name is Sheldon Brothley. I live at 69 Stanton Street. Go just there right next to the proposal. Some of the things we are hearing now, they never proposed it to the group. So tell us what your opposition is based on? My opposition is based on all the violation and insufficient spacing. And as the gentleman just said, the planning of the deck, that was never, we never know they changed the deck. They never came back to us and tell us anything about changing of the design of the property. It sounds like homework was represented. The design didn't change. They just removed the deck. So that's what I understand. We had a meeting on May 9th. And after May 9th, there has never been another community meeting, another meeting on this issue. So it's kind of a new to my concerns about all the violations they already have. And the efficient spacing that's located with the property and the parking issue. We had a only... What is your parking concern? They're proposing a three family house and the street itself has 80% of it is multifamily. I'm only single family resident there. So the parking is insufficient parking for the property. Okay, thank you. Thank you. It also has three churches on the street already. Thank you, sir. So the parking that you're proposing for this building, for these three units, you're proposing four parking spaces in the rear of the building. And that means the parking requirement. It does. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion please? Yeah, so let me just be clear about... You said there's an update instead of plans that... Yep. ...and I have to move back. Yep, it's very... I would prefer to stand to accurate plans as opposed to what I have in front of me. I have a set of plans without the bus deck Okay, why don't we do this? I don't make a motion to move with the standard view but hold the signature. Yeah, because we'll just hold it for a couple minutes until we give Mr. Olixta. So there's a motion on the table. Is there a second? Certainly. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried with that proviso? And I call the next case calling B.O.A. Mr. Ackman, Mr. Ackman, would you be walking with your butter to make sure that this construction works into everybody's comfort? Yes. Okay, thank you. Calling the next case, calling B.O.A. 8800-056-249-251-3. This is the demolition existing building and erecting new three-story nine-unit residential building with side roofed decks and 14 parking spaces in garage. The violations, Article 65, Section 8, a multi-family dwelling is forbidden use. Article 65, Section 9, the fluide ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building has excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the building has excessive in feet. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 65, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address, fill the right to place. Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is James Rudser, and I represent the applicant for the board. I believe we have painted out two of the members of the board. The most updated set of plans that Mr. Erlich has been provided during the break with the ISD stamp copies. As a result of our thorough participation in the community process, what was originally the subject of this appeal was a nine-unit, where we're restoring building with underground parking underneath it. The most recent plans call for a six-unit building that is substantially smaller than mass than also on lot coverage. So does it change the violations in any way? It increases the proposed violations. It doesn't increase. So your front yard, sorry, the yard stays the same. Does your height change? No. And your FAR probably has increased. The FAR has increased from what was originally going to the 1.3 down to 0.09. The violation, the use of the still forbid. That's correct. OK. OK. So tell us what's being followed. I could defer to the architect and to the board's questions. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is a site bounded on three sides by road or private way. There's a 20-foot grade difference from the rear to the front. Initially, you put the garage into the hill with residential units above through extensive community outreach and negotiations. We reduced the unit count from nine to six units, removed the garage, and put the parking in the rear of the property. It's still a three-story building, but now it's a six-unit building with eight parking spaces down from a nine-unit building with 15 parking spaces. So parking is not a violation. I know you. Is one parking? No violation, ma'am. Tell us about the size of the units. Yes, Madam Chair. The first floor units are duplexes, our townhouse units, three bedroom, three bath units, 1850 square feet. The second floor units are two bedroom, two bath units, a 1,200 square feet. And the top floor, the third floor units are two bedroom, two bath, and 1,300 square feet. I know they're roof decks. There are roof decks accessed by bulkheads. Sorry. There are roof decks accessed by bulkheads. At this, my bulkhead said it's only to the top units. It's dedicated to the top units only, Madam Chair. Let's see what your violations are. Find the size. Okay. Help the plans of your service. I'll join the training. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support a press proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board, Patrick Van L. Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. This went through an extensive community process, including a presentation to the Ashmont Adam Civic Association's and five on-site of butters meetings. The applicant has worked extensively with a community to accommodate their concerns. On a unit count and design, the parking and the site conditions, including if it was a time to dumps or on site to accommodate the traction concerns. We'd like to go on our own and support this project. There are butters on record with the board, and I believe the applicant has more of a submit as well. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Can you explain how the parking is supposed to work? Of course, Madam Chair. As I mentioned earlier, the site is bounded on three sides by roads. It fronts the public way, which is Minot Street, but it's bounded on the right side in the rear by Minot Park Road. So the occupant would access a Minot Park via Park Street, drive up to Small Hill, the 20-foot grade change, and park in the rear of the building. And then would step down to the rear staircase for entrance to the building. And... Then how would they exit? Same way? They'd exit the same way, yes, Madam Chair. So what's across Minot Park and the rear of the building? Is there... Across Minot Park, Madam Chair, is a single-family house on the corner of Minot Park and Minot Street. But across on Minot Park are two or three relatively new townhouses. Okay. And you're not proposing... I guess it's because of the grade change. There's no possibility of screening and bar prints and actics here. Okay. Just talking about... So, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve if you do a designer deal. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion parents or all? Thank you, Madam Chair. Case calling BLA-945356185 London Street. This is a complete renovation and living space addition to change the maximum of three families or four families. The violation is Article 25, Section 5. This is the flood hazard district, Article 53, Section 8. The four-family dwelling unit is a forbidden use. Article 53, Section 9, the lottery for additional dwelling units insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the flow area ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The height is excessive in stories. Article 53, Section 9, the height is excessive in feet. Article 53, Section 9, the front yard setback is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the side yard setback is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 56, our free parking requirement is insufficient. May we now address for the record, please? Morning, Madam Chair. Members on board, Attorney Derek Small. Business stress at 51 dogs in the room, great to you, nice. Madam Chair, we're here today. Today's city will be changed to legal occupancy of the building from a three-family to a four-family to a wreck to one-story addition. And a small rear addition off the back. Is this a construction underway? No, it's not. Zoning subdued check is a 3F 2000. Our lot size is 2,500 square feet. Zoning violations are as follows. Four families for bidding use. FAR, required FAR is 1.0. We're proposing 1.4. Building height, the requirement is three stories at 35 feet. We're proposing four stories at 40 feet, five inches. Front yard setback, requirement is five feet. We're doing a modal frontage. Side yard is 2.5, required. We have 2.8 and 2.2. So we're on one side, we're a little bit short on the side. Off-shake parking requirement is four. We have zero. Madam Chair, the handout that I showed you, I just wanted to illustrate what is going on on that street. The first page. Right, Derek, is this a butter to the project, the same developer as on this, on this, that's correct. So if you look at the second page, the building that's under construction now is number 187 London Street. Directly to the right is 185, which is a not started yet. 187 was approved by the school last year and is currently under construction. We are just simply seeking to do the same thing at 185. It's the same owner and same developer as 187. And that's the data set, where's Jack on this? No, there's not. And the top floor is pushed back and recessed eight feet from the front as is the 187, which is illustrated on the second page of the handout. And the fourth unit would be the addition. That's correct. Okay. How would the plans Mr. Allen? Drawing an effort. Any questions from the board? Also, Madam Chair, we have a petition with some of the abundant signatures. And we have a letter from the owner at one, 187 to 40 spot. Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the record of opposition for this project at this time. This project didn't get any support from the community. The abares have many concerns about the proposal and also Maverick Central Neighborhood Association for it against this proposal. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lidia, towards the council. I'd also like to go on the record and opposition to this proposal. Would you support of 187? That project went through the process before the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association was in existence. I don't know the exact date of when that project was approved, but I don't recall it going through the community process. I would like to appeal it, should I? Because it looks like it would have very much the same violations as this. Madam Chair, is this exactly the same? Okay. Do you want to speak in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record. Thank you. Michael Wayne-Juzi, 193 London Street. I'm about three houses to the left of it of that project. The 187, like you said, is very similar to it. Unfortunately, by some unknown accident, none of the opposing abutters were notified about it until after that 187 was already passed. But on this one here, the lot size is insufficient. There's already, they're doing a fourth story, the same owners on 187. There's another couple of houses that are going to fourth stories. There's not enough parking. There's already no parking left on the street. And people are coming down from upper end of the street, lower end of the street, trying to find parking spots. So adding another story to it. It is a 3F 2000 lot. And by the size of it, it's going to be about almost 4,000 square feet because they're planning on adding probably part of the basement. You've got four stories now. That's a pretty good size building. Everybody's going to be driving with cars. So there's not going to be enough parking over there on it. They're making it a lot bigger from the size it is. It's more than double the size of the building that's currently there, even without the fourth story. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor. Madame Chair, they have four units approximately 685 square feet. That would be added to the car bill. Okay, may I have a motion, please? I'll make motion to deny. Given that there's no second, I need another motion. Five people. You seconded denial. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Sorry, this has been denied. Madame Chair, can we request that that be denied while prejudice? I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Calling next case. Calling BOA 952103658 to 666 East Broadway. Madame Chair, I'd like to recuse myself. This is a renovation of an existing building at 658 East Broadway. So include an addition in the rear yard and additional floor to combine a lot of 654, 656, 656R and 658, 666 East Broadway Street and demolished the existing building at 654 East Broadway Street. Change options from a restaurant, offices and three units to restaurant, offices and eight units. The violation of Article 68, Section 8, Affleudier Ratio is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, the height is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, the usable open space is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, Bostrick Parking is insufficient. Article 27, Section 5, this is in the south-boss and iPod. Article 68, Section 29, roof structure restricted district. Name and address, board the record please. Good afternoon, Madame Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Paulgini, Tenforbs, Roden Breintrieg, with me this afternoon is Travis Blake and Susa Architecture, together with Joe Akari, who is the owner developer. The record I'd just like to note that Miss Fallet has refused to sell from this proposal. Go ahead. So if Mr. Fortune read out Madame Chair, this proposal is basically you have the one restaurant with the playwright and then you have two buildings behind it. Those two buildings are raised, combined with five residential units and then we're renovating in existing three units and adding a floor. Net is going to be eight units, eight units so that we know additional units and currently what's existing on the property. The- Just walk us through the building then, so the first floor would be the restaurant. The restaurant and retail. Do we know what the restaurant is with the restaurant uses? So currently the restaurant is a playwright and that will be expanded into that space. At another date that is a licensing issue in fire department issue that we'd have to go through. Okay, then the second floor is office. That's correct. And tell us the breakdown on the residential units. There are seven two bedroom, two baths. Those average a thousand to 1400 square feet. And there's one three bedroom, two and a half baths at 1,530 square feet. Is there a rooftop? There is not. Through the community process we eliminated. Let's see. Is there an issue with parking? Is there a violation? No, I guess all street parking is insufficient. Yeah, there's currently no parking on site the way it's set up because it's basically a row house. It's attached to all other buildings on the street. How are the plans Mr. Oloh? Any questions from the board? So anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Members of the board, Hailey Dillon Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We like to unrecognise support. We have no butters meeting on June 5th. Some concerns were raised and the owner gave his number to work out those concerns. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, child 11 from Councilor Ed Flynn's office. We'd like to unrecognise opposition. There was a subsequent community meeting after the butters meeting in which civic groups and residents relate concerns about quality life issues. The applicant then deferred here at the ZBA and met with the neighbors recently again on these issues. It looked like both sides worked in negotiating good faith and make a compromise but unfortunately they couldn't come to a consensus. We'd like to see everyone come back to the table and try to work out these outstanding issues. Please tell me is the quality of life related to this project or is it general quality of life? General quality of life. People excited, concerns about noise, etc. General noise of noise from this particular project. They're talking about this project. My understanding. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. We have Mr. Conglodge, Michael Flaherty, to the communal efforts that went into drafting Article 68. The council does not support this project as proposed. He does know that the proponent worked with the neighborhood but there are still many concerns from Director Butters and do that fact that council does not support the project. We would have to know Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councilor Savi, Georgia's office. We oppose this project but we would also like to see the both sides come together and continue speaking. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Board, my name is Luanne O'Connor and I represent the City Point Neighborhood Association, Vice Chair, as well as speaking for the Gate of Heaven, Neighborhood Association as well, working in conjunction. We oppose this project for several reasons and what we're asking the board to consider today is to actually uphold the legal zoning of Article 68. What's your opposition based on? The opposition is that a bar or a bar with live entertainment are forbidden under Article 68 and that bar is slash LS. We also oppose to that and that goes back to Article 68-7. Most of the attempts to work with the neighborhood are operational issues versus you ask for quality of life, the quality of life. There's somebody had mentioned quality of life so I was just trying to understand whether the quality of life was related to quality in life in general in the neighborhood or for this particular project. It would definitely be for this particular project, Madam Chair. That would mean. Is Broadway is under Article 68 with an FAR of 1.5 and a height of 35 feet. The proponent is asking to triple, I mean I'm sorry to double the FAR to 2.99 and to ask for an additional 10 feet. So Broadway, East Broadway has not been zoned for that. So with that, the quality of life issues that are bringing forth with this project are the expansion of the playwright. We cannot get into capacity, he won't come through with that. He owns another bar and I do use bar versus restaurant. On Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday nights, this particular project, you can't utilize the sidewalk. There are crowds of young millennials out there smoking, vaping, drinking and it's right abouting to the public library, the South Boston Public Library, which is open in the evenings, you know, certain days during the week. Mondays and Thursdays, thank you. So it's not something that we want to subject our children to or our senior citizens because we are still in neighborhood. So the issue is with the current restaurant and their control of their patrons. Absolutely, and the size of blowing out the back and expanding it. So what we're asking for is there are so many variances here. It's a forbidden usage. So we're asking to please just uphold the zoning that is currently in place. Tell us about the residential uses because there are eight units proposed. Are you looking at that too? I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. The residential uses, there's eight units proposed. Are you seeing that as impacting the quality of life? That's where we'd like for Mr. O'Cari and his attorney to come back to the table. We would like for him to have a discussion about height and density. If we can reach somewhere in the middle with height and density, then I think that we can both be happy. But with this current height, it's going to be too tall, too dense, no parking, too everything. Okay, thank you. Thank you Madam Chair and Board. Madam, could you give us additional information? Yes. Because I think the buzzer who just talked was pretty comprehensive. Yes. So Mary-Mayalari, Director Bada, 651 East Broadway, South Boston, Mass. I live directly across the street from it and I have some pictures of what the lines look like at 1030 at night. It's very, very loud and the patrons, there's also a package store right beside the playwright and they sometimes go when they buy some nips and stuff and they stop their drinking while they're in line. They also use the library parking lot as their urinal and I have some pictures of that as well. I have a letter here from the Gate of Heaven, Ablehood Association, Opposing the Project as well. It's just like, it's just too much, there's no parking at all. It's just a very, very difficult place to live and I've lived on this block my whole life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor? Sure. If I could just address, as you noticed, everybody, even those who oppose from the political side of this room, all stated that the developer in Good Faith met with this community member. So we actually met, we deferred last night. I think the question for you today is, is a good faith, is future conversation in Good Faith going to be productive? That's a very good point because if we go back to when we initially appeared before you guys, we asked for a deferral at that point. At that point, I had submitted a letter which you all have up there and there were several issues that Ed Flynn, myself, Joey Akari and Charlie from Ed's office, we sat down, we talked about it, they said these are the issues and those were sound proof in the building, the balcony is juliet balcony, crowd control closing, bands move to the rear of the building, closing. Sorry, so the sound proofing juliet balcony is crowd parking. Crowd control closing. Bands move to the back of the building, closing the windows at 830, adding cameras and lights around the building because to address the issue that Miss Mel and Ari brought up with respect to it, if there was anybody doing that, then that would have been positive. So we had a meeting, not this past Friday the Friday before, we walked out and we all those situations, all their requests that were on the sheet were met and that letter which you guys have was sent to Ed Flynn and we agreed to everything they requested. Now at the 11th hour, this comes up regarding a licensing issue, not a zoning issue with respect to the capacity of the playwright bar which is being redone. That's the issue that they're getting stuck on right now. That's something that has to go to the fire department as you all know and to license it. The question to us though is that what's not actually listed here, I'm assuming that in fact that the way this appeal is set up, where is the expansion of capacity at the bar? What is the violation number? Is that 6829? You don't have a violation. You don't have a violation. But then your intention then is under this scenario is to expand the space but not increase the capacity. That will be an issue that Mr. Akira will have to deal with licensing in the fire department. My understanding is that generally increasing capacity for establishments like this come to this board first before going to licensing. So this sounds to me that you're proposing the same capacity more space. And if that's not true, then maybe you need to get a new rejection letter, request the parole, get a new rejection letter or I mean it's a decision for you to make. So that's not true because I'm not going to mislead anybody on this board. The intention is to expand the use of that bar and that was several things that came into that, a vestibule, soundproofing and all the other things that go along with it. So if that's the board's suggestion, then we would get an update and refuse the letter that would address that and come back before the board. Okay, so in the meantime then that's a request for a deferral then. Absolutely. Okay, may I have a motion? All right. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? The date please? Well, we are probably squeezing November 29th. I mean, I'm sorry, November 12th. November 12th at 1130. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, next date. Calling BLA947223, 163 Mary and St. This is a change of walking from a three family into a two family, then extend living space into the basinal level and adding new roof deck to be accessed by a hatch. The violations article 27T-5, this is in the e-spawns and iPod, article 53, section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, section 9, the number of allowed stories has been exceeded. And Article 53, section 52, roof structure restrictions, name and address for the record please. Good afternoon. I have a chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245, Sumner Street, e-spawns, on behalf of the petitioner, Richard Jeffrey. He was intending to be here as a doctor's appointment. He could not make it here at the last meeting. The deferred and chair at the last meeting for two reasons. One, I believe the updated set of plans needed to get to the board. I don't believe they were available at the last hearing. In addition, there was a request to consider locating the utilities at each of the units. This proposal, just to recap, involves a change of occupancy, rarely seen from a three family or two or two family, actually reduced the number of units in the building. This will be intended to be oner occupied, the reprogramming of the building will result in two new flex units. So there will be extension of living space into the basement. There is a proposed roof that also doesn't go to the head house. The original petition didn't have hatch. There wasn't update for the plan that was filed. I believe that's the plan that you have. And that was also presented to the neighborhood at the Eagle Pacific Association, which did approve this unanimously. The question that typically arises, and we know that the Eagle Hill is sensitive to the head house issue, is the view and the proximity of other buildings in the area. The Eagle Hill Square seems to be the more sensitive area for head houses. This is located well outside the Eagle Hill Square. And there was no specific objection to the head house proposal for access to the building. Okay, so let's start with the basement extension into the basement. Tell us what's the use of the basement space. So it will be living area that's pertinent to the first unit. So unit one will occupy the basement the first level. The background is on the basement. We'll leave the plan those show you better. We're going to have to make use of this through reading these plans. Yes, there is a better way. Is there a bedroom there? There is one. Okay. And what's the floor to ceiling, right? The access of seven and a half feet all intended to comply with the building code. Okay. What's the unit size of each one? Each unit is about 1200 square feet with the combined space in the basement for the first and then the two levels being incorporated to one and the second and third level. Okay. And tell us about the roof deck. The roof deck would be the upper unit only and again, access by head house, Mr. Jeffrey, looking at the design of the hatch. So it was not comfortable. He intends to occupy this with his family and the safety issues that go along with access in the roof deck were considered in one of the reasons why the head house was proposed. So this is not an existing head house? It is not. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Oleg? I will. Okay. From the first time. The head house is toward the rear half of the building. It was safety concerns specifically. Because you do have a stair wall. Would be access from the stair wall within the building. And you simply have a hatch. Throw out the access from the stair wall. Yes. No, I know some are access from the rear deck. This one is about five feet. There's no locking system for the kids. I think it's the safety coming back into the hatch versus having a entry way with the head house. We approve that. All they want. No one says anyone safe. I understand. I understand. I understand you have to reflect the views of your client. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Linda Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support during the community process. The developer addresses all the concerns of the abaters and also got strong support from the abaters and from the EqualHealth Civic Association. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council, Liddy Edwards. The council would also like to go on the record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I've got to make a motion to approve the 58 design approval, but I'm going to ask the designer if you'd include a review of that out in the possible place of the past. Second. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Calling the last case of the day, calling BLA92247569-71 Maverick Square. This is a change of architecture from a dry cleaning store with accessory storage to six apartments in a registered marijuana dispensary. The violation of Article 53, Section 11. The Canada's establishment is a conditionally used name and address for the record police. Name and address for the record police. Thank you, sir. I'm James Smith. I'm an attorney representing the petitioner. We're at 50 Congress Street in Boston. The petition has been firmed to Smith, the Sullivan Cropett. With me to my left is George Merenci, who is working with us in the zoning component. We do a lot of cannabis and our firm. To my right is Steve Basko. Steve is part of the ownership group. He resides in 21 Barnes Avenue in East Boston. As you heard, this is 6971 Maverick Square. We have a host community agreement signed by the city in February. Our firm and our focus for a few moments on the cannabis portion of our presentation. We do a number of cannabis clients across the Commonwealth. Now close to four dozen. We focus a lot on the application at the CCC levels, but a lot of time at that particular location. Security is always the foremost issue. We hear in communities. It's also in here. So may I hear from Mr. Marancy, please? Absolutely. Can you speak about, so this is going from a dry cleaning and storage to a six family and dispensary. What's the zoning district that this is in? The George Marancy I've been introduced. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney for the business address at 350 West Broadway in South Boston. In terms of the federal history, this matter was before the board in March of 2019. There were two cannabis cases in succession, direct succession at the hearing. This was the second after the first was approved. The question at the time was because of the one half mile buffer zone that is in the code, whether this board could in fact approve under a conditional use standard, which is the standard in this. This is a commercially-zoned district. In the neighborhood shopping? In As I believe. In the case. In the case. In the neighborhood shopping district. Otherwise would be forbidden use in any residential district. So the question was whether the board could not only consecutively, but could approve two uses within a half mile distance of each other. So we get it now. I just wanted to just get everything clear on this particular project. I just want to look at it. This application is simply for a conditional use permit. That is the sole violation that is before the board. It's not a barren standard. At the March hearing, the matter was substantially put on record in terms of appropriate facilities being established and maintained. Mr. Hunt can go. Mr. Smith can go through that again for the board. I realize that some members sitting today were not here in March. The reason why we are here today for seat. I think there were three or four members. It might be for us. So I will obviously speak to Zelline again if there is that recurring question on how the board may approve this on a conditional use standard. Right now, Attorney Smith can, and I think it would benefit the record. Ian, the members of the board who are not sitting in March just to have the particulars of the actual operation and the proposed use put on the record. Okay, so tell us we generally have questions that are very specific. One, tell us what the square footage is of this facility. Madam Chair, the square footage is a frontage of about 22 feet, the front and back, and the length of the space is roughly 43, 44 feet. And the retail component will be what percentage of that space? Because I know you probably need storage in the back. We have storage in the back. We also have the basement available to us. And under the regulations which are really strict in terms of storage will be actually involved. The product that's on this locked at all times until there's an opportunity for a sale and which case of product is then delivered and the transaction then takes place. But that is typically, that is always off the floor. That is always off the retail center. Okay. So we use the basement. And what are your proposed hours of operation? We would like to go 9 to 9 if we could. We are flexible and would obviously respect the wishes of the city and the neighborhood. And 9 to 9, 7 days a week. 12 to 9 on Sunday, excuse me. And 12 to 9 on Sundays. Okay. How do you anticipate controlling the lines? There's a couple of things in play with lines. Certainly we have all very familiar with the first two openings when cars came from pretty much the entire Northeastern part of the United States. There are 22 stores of open since then. Lines have not really been an issue. There's been a number of ways that happens as more stores open. Clearly the impact is spread throughout. We get that. But the fact of the matter is a periodically driving route 9 and those lines haven't debated. Right. So clearly right now there's one, within 128 there's actually two stores open, a third as a appointment only. If there are lines, there are any issues at all. We've prepared a dual appointment only. I understand that. But you're not talking right now. So you have no plan for crowd control. No, there's always, we have security at all times. Live security on arm clearly at all times for crowd control. If lines do develop, we will have some room inside our store. We would move to appointment only. We don't want lines. We want to enhance the square, not harm the square. Goals to make America square, the kind of square that I think all of us hope it in things it can be. You're not starting on a point that only faces. Well, I will tell you based on the CCC process, we probably can't open this store until the middle of 2020 optimistically. By that time we might be the hundredth store opened. I don't think there's probably more economic, more store, more. No customers at a dumping donuts than they'll be here. If there are any issues at all, we know one lines in the square. We know one lines at our door. We will have our security at all times. That's a moment we're opened. And if we need to do something to control the lines, we could do appointment only. That's the method that has typically been used in other stores where that is essential. So it sounds to me that people that stores generally start with the line scenario and after they've built up a base, go to appointments. But in that time, there is an impact on the community. What is your plan for that? That has not been the experience I think of the folks who've come before us. We'll gladly accept appointment only initially. That's not a problem for us. We don't think that that is worked in a number of stores across the Commonwealth. Typically, what happens is it's a appointment only. And then after a period of time, when business normalizes, that process kind of moves on. And sometimes it's a matter of a week or two. Sometimes it could be a month or two. In Brookline, which is an extraordinary store given it's, again, within 128, it's the only store right now. And it has no appointments and is a very popular store. But as I say, we'll be about the hundredth, I would estimate there'll be at least a hundred stores in front of us. But we'll gladly go open only initially. We have to look at both cases scenario, thinking that you might be the only store at Austin. Madam Chair, members, I think testimony has been presented that this store would likely not open until mid 2020, yet the board is being asked to approve this today. So as the Chair and as other members have pointed out whether or not there's a line queuing in Maverick Square, is it today issue? I think my clients would be happy if it were the desire of the board to approve this with the proviso that it be by appointment only certainly at the outset of operations. By the time that this were to open, I think it could be better a judge to whether that would be necessary. It certainly could and would open that way if it were the desire of the board and then that could be modified in terms of input from the mayor's office and neighborhood services and the local looking what that officials. And the police station is right nearby. We'd be glad to work with the local police. So at any time they feel that we'll open appointment only and when the police say this is fine, we can move on. But that's again, this process. And not the security word. When product is delivered, what is the security mechanism? The product is delivered randomly, probably not much more than twice a week. It's a very small product. It's obviously very valuable. And it's pre-packaged. It's pre- everything is totally pre-packaged, sealed, cannot be opened by anybody in our store and our employee. So how is the layout of your store? Are you having a display section in the front? Because we have seen plans from other stores that propose that and then purchase in a separate section of that store. There'll be a security vestibule when people enter. Prior to entering the store, you can't open the door yet through that first door without having a government issued ID that shows you at least 21 years of age. That's done by a camera or a wire, a life security person. And you get inside our store and there is one of those machines that actually tests to make sure that what you have is a legitimate government ID. That's the second point where we visually and we determine that you are the appropriate age and legal to do business with. The third point is when you actually make a purchase, we've checked the ID a third time. And at that point, this is the purchase. You will have a product that is sealed that cannot be opened in the store. It's against regulations and against the law, frankly. You can't open it in the store. And the child approved seal, which has been approved by the CCC, isn't an incredibly aggressive seal. I know for a hand of that, I've seen a number of these. They're very challenging to open. And nobody is allowed to open it. Obviously, on premises, we have security off premises. We have tremendous amount of cameras, which I require by the CCC. We want to go beyond the CCC requirements on security cameras, but only go up and down our side of the square, but across the square because of our unique location. But just not on the street, we actually have a square. At no point in time, can that probably be opened? You will be on camera. And our security, its job is to make certain. As is the law. That part can't be opened in any public area at all. That's me looking. How are the plans Mr. O'Reilly? The goals are a bit of a bind. Any questions from the board? So, yeah, I wouldn't like to. Mr. Ramsey raised the issue of what happened back in March. I mean, we still have to have a mild issue. I guess I am asking you. I would suggest how would you suggest we consider that? So, without going too long and being overly pedantic, but it does require a somewhat specific legal explanation. Our position from the beginning, and I was not here in March, but since I have been brought on board at that time, I think the applicant's position has been that with respect to what is in the zoning code, with respect to the half mile buffer zone, existing means existing. For anyone unfamiliar with the language, it's contained in both Article 2 and Article 2 way of the code. It's done that this half mile buffer zone, as it's being called, was imposed by means of a definitional amendment to the code. Hence, it's in Article 2 and Article 2 way, zoning code definitions and neighborhood zoning code definitions. And what the definition of cannabis establishment says is that as a use, it is conditional in commercial sub-districts. It is forbidden in residential sub-districts. There is an asterisk or two asterisk, I believe, after both conditional and forbidden as indications of the status of the uses. And then that asterisk information, essentially a footnote says, that provided that no cannabis establishment shall be within one half mile of another existing establishment. This is what I think struggled with the definition of what the interpretation of what that meant. What does existing mean? These cases, this case in the case that came immediately before it, in March, brought that issue into stark consideration. We just approved one. How can we approve another one within a half mile? And it hinges on the fact that existing means it's existing in terms of statutory construction. Now there is an acknowledgement, I would suggest, on the part of the city, between then and between each time that we have deferred until today when we're going forward. The City Council has addressed the issue, working with the mayor's office. The City Council has drafted a proposal that would be submitted to the Zelling Commission. It's not been acted upon. I don't know if the mayor has officially signed off on it, but what the City Council has said in its proposed amendment to be submitted to the Zelling Commission is that existing handsforth will mean anything that is in existence in use or any establishment that has received any approval whatsoever from the City of Boston, including Zelling approval. That's what it will say. It is not what it says now. And the fact that the City Council has drafted something to be sent to the Zelling Commission, saying that that is what it is going to mean henceforth means to my eyes that that is not what it means now. Okay, so I don't think it's, I think we should be operating on common sense and not legal, not angels on the head of a pen. At the time that that was raised, what that for me was why there were two host agreements drafted one in an obvious situation where there was a conflict. And let's say it takes six months from approval to building the project. This picks the monitoring on the right. So you've proved one defer the second, and now if we potentially approve that one, the other one has a few months that start. At a certain point it will become existing. Does that mean then that approval is no longer accurate because it is no longer applicable? So it will become after the fact. I guess, let me finish about it, Chair. I just think that there is a problem with making the common sense is you have a buffer zone, you have a buffer zone. And I sort of feel like we're evading the intent of the... With your... Sorry. Let's stop the conversation right there because I just need us to just take a step back and look at this because current... current zoning talks about existing as existing operational wind pommens, whatever existing means. So let's stop right there. Let me ask, is there anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. In a family with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, the Mayor's Office would like to go on the recurring support. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support of this proposal. Thank you. Madame Chair, members of the board, all solving. We have City Council on Jamaica Flarety. First off, acknowledging that the council had been the lead sponsor of the buffer zone regulation that went into effect, the council would like to go on record and support of this particular proposal. The only difference here being that the difference between the buffer zone regulation of half mile in the proposal here, there's a very small difference between what's being proposed here and between the other proposal that was recently allowed by this board. The council also would like to point out that he feels that there's a compelling interest to get an equity and veteran owned business open under the new legislation, but also would like to emphasize that this would be a stringent exception and not the rule to the half mile buffer zone regulation. So due to that, you're on the membership of the council of the board. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Please, as I asked before, give us new information as each of you come up, okay? Mr. Thomas Garvey, 137 Webster Street in East Boston. I don't know, there's new information to your knob, but it was to me. I called the state cannabis commission yesterday. And the dispensary at 253 Meridae in Street that we're discussing does have provisional approval. It's in their pipeline moving towards final approval. So I think we can expect it to be one of those 100 new dispensaries that council to my left reference, which will put it 1.4 miles from the Maverick Square state. And I just want to thank you for bringing up the huge lines at the Brookline Village dispensary. And in my opinion, and the opinion of many people in East Boston, Maverick Square cannot accommodate that kind of line. And also thank you for bringing up the apparent fact that the applicants don't really have a plan to deal with that and don't really have the space to deal with it. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Frances McEwan, Deacon for Most Holy Redeemer Parish in East Boston. Most Holy Redeemer Parish in our school, East Boston, Central Catholic are located very close to Maverick Square. We have over 2,000 parishioners in our school, serve students who are 3 years old through the eighth grade. Approximately 150 students use the team to get to the school. Maverick Square is the heart of East Boston in no place for a pot shop. The location is too close to schools such as ours in the McKay School in 122 Cottage Street in the Dantel, Allegory Montessori School at 37 Gove Street. The coordinates counseling LLC at 154 Maverick in Addiction Specialist is only 230 feet from a proposed blue location. Clean slate centers located nearby at 82 Parish Street is an addiction and recovery center for alcohol and opiate addiction. Maverick Square is a congested area with heavy traffic and little parking for business. The pot shop at 69 to 71 Maverick Street with its long lines on the street. The potential for her related crime does not serve the community of East Boston. It serves only to reduce the quality of life and the neighborhood of Maverick Square. As we know, business involves taking risks. Sometimes the risks pay off. Sometimes they don't. The bloom took the risk of proposing a pot shop less than one half mile from the pot shop proposed by Brookshire Roots located at 251 to 253 Meridian Street. Brookshire Roots took the same risk and for them it paid off. The board approved the Brookshire Roots proposal. Bloom assumed the risk of building too close to Brookshire Roots. Bloom's risk did not pay off. That's the cost of doing business. Excuse me, Deacon. What additional issues do you have? You talked about the recovery facilities in proximity. You talked about the lines. This is the last issue. Okay, and just speak to us. Don't read to us please. All right. Bloom assumed the risk of building too close to Brookshire Roots. The risk did not pay off. That's the cost of business. In the future perhaps they'll proceed in their ventures with greater caution. Thank you. You have the hard spot. Give us new information. Yes, good afternoon. My name is Denise McEw and I live right around the corner from the Central Squee of Facility. What's your address? 56 Princeton Street. He's lost in. I believe the law is meant to implement and not to seek advantage and change it around for advantage. So I would like the law of being too close to the other facility for the law to be for us to be law abiding and to not just fiddle faddle with the law and to just impose the law as the law stands instead of reinventing the law. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may, members. In rebuttal on the issue again, not to go into too long of a conversation. All law and purposes will need to sit here for as long as that would take. Right now we are in a situation where there is in arguably ambiguity with the zoning code regulation of cannabis establishments with respect to existing facilities. This in Berkshire Roots signed host community agreements the same day. They appeared at the Board of Appeals in March on the same day. They appeared in succession to one another. Those facts painted in bright light the fact that the zoning code amendment as written created the potential for ambiguity and conflict with respect to the half mile buffer zone. That issue is being addressed. This issue should not come up in the future on subsequent cases. It came up here, but to say simply that whoever was first in line literally at the hearing should be able to proceed and open an establishment and the other should not be because the former may or may not open is unfair quite frankly. This is a zoning approval. Right now that zoning approval requires that this Board as a conditional use matter only approve a facility that is not located within half mile of an existing facility. There is no such existing facility. I just added a closing point on and I wanted to make this point our ownership group to my right is Steve Basko. Steve and his father are on 50% they are not fronts. They are on 50% of our businesses of the business. There are four owners in their entirety. All four reside in East Boston. You just heard the name of the other entity Berkshire Roots. They are from Berkshire County which is an appropriate name. Steve is spending years in the military, he is a veteran. Half of our ownership is Latino which is what the council and the CCC frankly, all of us frankly are trying to encourage in this business. It is a very unique situation. We are from the square. We own the building. Almost everybody who comes before you will come as a tenant who wants to represent space. We own this space and we own the building next store. In the business next store we run that business. We run that business. We have a number of years and we have gotten it is a very well run business. Steve has a child who can treat you very briefly of all the businesses in Maverick Square that is a port. Thank you. Let's stop it right there. Thank you. Given all this information may I have a motion please. I am going to make a motion to approve. We have a design review. I don't really think that you can do this. It has changed to six apartments and registered marijuana facility. No, it does not matter. It is almost all interior renovations. I do want to make a comment which is that I am doing this because on the merits of this particular case and having a marriage. I have a very good story. This board should have been put in this position in the first place. I continue to feel that way and maybe it is going to get corrected. The real issue was the negotiation of the host agreements on the same day. It was knowingly in violation of the buffer zone. I am having a sense of fairness. I will make a motion. All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Aye. There have been the motion carries. Chair votes with the motion. Thank you. The meeting is now adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned.