 Good evening. The City of Boston zoning board for PL subcommittee for May 19, 2020 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15, 2022. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep the video on when presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time of commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to ink a comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Click yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand and star six to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their names and address first and then provide the comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know the call on you at the time at the appropriate time. Just quickly, I see Mr. Fortune as Secretary and Mr. Oleg here as architect. You need the amount of time. Good evening. So let's go ahead, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call any deferrals or withdrawals for tonight's meeting. If you give me the address, if you are deferring or withdrawing. Hearing now, I'll call the first case calling case B O A 126 6216 134 word word street. This is adding more room. This adding more room. The violation is Article 27G. This is an e-spost in iPod. Article 53 Section 9, the four day ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9, side yad is insufficient. Article 53 Section 9, the rear yad is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good evening. My name is Diane Miller and I am with Miller Design. I have the architect. My address is 80 Clark Street Belmont. Also here with me tonight are Chris and Dana Griswald. Would you like them to introduce themselves at this point? No, please go ahead and tell us what it's proposed. Okay, wonderful. Thank you. So they own a small single family home. It is at the corner of Wordsworth and Horace. Their home has currently a footprint of only 532 square feet on the basement level. If you scroll back up, there we go. So this is the existing basement level. They often enter through that mechanical storage room because this is where their main living spaces are. So they've got their living room and their kitchen and the only bathroom on this level. Although this is the basement level. And then one story up from here, if you scroll to the next sheet, this is the first floor has a living room and a bedroom. And then on the next sheet, you see the attic space which has two small rooms under the eaves. The interior stair to get from the basement to the first floor and also up to the attic space is rather treacherous. So that's one of the things that we are looking to correct. So basically what we would like to do is to build a side addition on the right side of this. So if you want to keep going to the next, I think the next sheet shows the elevations. You can see the basement door there and then the stairs up to that first level living room door. So we are going to be putting a side addition on the right of that. And if you look at the next sheet, that has the proposed basement floor plan. So with the new addition, we would like to correct the entry so that when they walk into the main living area, which is on this floor, that they have a little foyer instead of walking in through the mechanical storage space, which is an unfinished space. And then they also would like to add that playroom there. They have three young children. And so they need a little bit more living space for their family. And also a little bit more of a connection to their yard, which is something that's very important to them to be able to be in the kitchen and or in the playroom and to be able to look out and see the kids playing in the yard. We are also proposing that stair on the back of the playroom that would meet code. So that would become the primary stair up to the second floor. We would be leaving the current stair because it also provides access up to the attic. So we're just going to leave that one in place, but add this new one that would meet code. So we are here tonight for three reasons. One is the FAR second is the site. I'm sorry. How can you please tell us so it's a one story addition. It's not a it doesn't go up to the up to fours then. The addition is the on the basement level and on the first level, it does not include the attic level. Okay, can we see what the first level looks like, please? Sure, that is the what you were just looking at was the basement level. Do you want to look at the elevations or the plants? No, please go to the next page so we can see what that looks like. Okay, there we go. So that's the first floor that has currently a living room and a bedroom on the left side. And then up here we are proposing an additional bedroom and a bathroom. So that would be the second bath for the health. Okay, okay. And so the total new square footage is about 600 square feet. Correct. It's 291 square feet on the basement level and 337 square feet on this level. Okay, and what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? Oh, that is a shame I need to check on that. Because I don't remember it is three in the basement. Okay, how are the plants Mr. Arleic? I'm plans to find the the basement level is in fact a garden level. It's not it's not mostly below grade. So no issues there. It would have been nice if the drawings had had a plot plan because a little hard given that there's rear yard and side yard setbacks. It would have been nice to have seen them how they laid out and a lot. But this is relatively straightforward proposal. So can you please tell us what the rear and side yard, especially side yard, what's required and what impact this proposal will have, Miss Miller? Of course, so the side yard in terms of orientation on this plan that we're looking at right now is at the top of the drawing. So between the stair and that dashed line. And currently there is two and a half. I'm sorry, the setback is requirement is 2.5. Currently they have 1.8 and the intention is to just align with the existing. So we would be maintaining that 1.8 that is the current condition. And then in terms of the rear yard, that would be on the right side. So the distance from the playroom to the far right portion of that grass patch pattern. And so currently the house has 23.2 feet from the house to that property line. And we are proposing a 9 foot addition. And so with that extra 9 feet, that would bring our rear yards up back to 14.2. I do think it's worth noting that that hatch shows and there's a label on there at the minimum usable open space of 300 square feet. And we actually have about 500 square feet if you include all the space. Yeah, thank you. So the question then becomes, with that side yard, if you are 1.8, 1 foot 8, what's the distance between your property line and the about a buying property owner's wall or windows or whatever is on that side? That I do not have that information. I have a plot plan here that I was not aware that that wasn't part of your package. But the plot plan does not show the neighboring property. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office selected to defer a judgment to the board. Some background information on the community process. Our office hosting a butters meeting for this project on March 3rd. Noah butters attended the meeting. The applicant went on to present to the Harborview Neighborhood Association where they received full support. Proposal was very well received by the civic that was excited. Family staying in the neighborhood. With that, we turn it back to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have that letter that Connor Newman spoke of the Harborview. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, Jessica. Sorry, I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve BPD A to sign your view. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Have a good evening. Following the next case, calling B O A 13 10017 223, Connor Walt Avenue. This is a change of art from a five unit dwelling unit to a one unit to include 870 square foot roof deck garage for two proposed vehicles and complete interior renovation. A proposed Austria parking in the rear. Gray Yad is under a separate permit. The violation of Article 16 Section 8 restricted roof structure district. Name and address for the record please. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. I'm a business address officer. One doubt some road, we're entry masks. I'm sure we're here today seeking relief. We're changing the legal occupancy of the building. My five residential unit building to a one family dwelling. A zoning sub district is H 365. A lot size is 3,238 square feet. And our violation is restricted roof structure structure. So before we proceed, Councillor, has this property already been sold or is it an ownership already? It is an ownership already. So it's going to be proposed to be owner occupied. Owner occupied one family dwelling. That's correct. Okay. I know that this is just essentially a roof deck, but there was no groundwater protection overlay district excited on this. Not at all. Okay. Okay. So go ahead. Tell us what's being proposed. Okay. So again, if I could, Madam Chair, I think there's an issue here because the restricted article I looked it up. I'm actually looking at it now. Section 16, 8 restricted roof structure only applies to the south end and the back and north end and does not apply to the back bay. So I'm not sure whether this was incorrectly cited. No, we've seen a lot of roof decks in the back bay. I'm looking at it. I don't know what it's cited on her. So okay. Sorry. I'm just, as we proceed, just wanted everybody to know that we do have a letter in the file from the back bay architectural commission. You went before them and they approved the project. And we also went to suprindo and nav the architecture committee and they supported the project this way. So it's not visible from the street? No. In fact, I'm chair. It is set back 17 feet from the front and 16 feet from the back. So since center of the of the building, yeah, it's 800, 70 square feet. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Alec? Well, it's a very it's a very ambitious renovation and initially called for a swimming pool on the roof. That's, I guess, been eliminated. There is a large head house, which presumably is not visible from the roof, but again, this is this is an architectural, this is for the back bay folks that aside, I think the head house is too big, but I don't really think that's in the purview of the, the, the are, are bored to be honest with you. And again, I think it was cited incorrectly. And I checked with a BPDDA on that and they agreed. So is that an existing head house or a proposed head house counselor? Proposed head house. And there's also an elevator, an internal elevator. So there's an elevator over right on top of the roof as well. Okay. Again, all of that was approved by the I know it's in the father letters of file. Let it matter, Chair, I'm sorry, I haven't video problems on my end just so we know. No, I know I noticed that you had changed your look. Yeah. We're working on that, but we do have the letter that council is talking about. Okay. You know, it's interesting that the BPDDA recommendation, Mr. Ulrich, lists the violation as G-Cod applicability. That's why I checked on this and I spoke to Mr. Hampton and he said that it was he thinks it was cited in error because the restricted roof structure district only applies to the south end of the north end. So that's so he just he made the assumption that there must be a G-Cod violation. But if Mr. Small says there isn't, I don't know if we have any roles in this case because I think it goes for the architectural commission. Okay. Madam Chair. Madam Chair, Mr. Demiko has spoken this as well. I don't know if you want his comments right now or do you want to continue? Please go ahead. So regarding 223 Commonwealth is okay, but he would like to see the width of the parking. Very increased from seven feet to 10 feet to improve the access and the egress. He also says it should be an audio and visual alarm to want pedestrians upon coming vehicles. Okay. So Councillor, the the okay. So for me, it feels like there are a lot of odd and odd and end species because you know, we usually like to see a complete project because it looks like it looks like the application says proposed off street parking in rear yard is under separate permit. Is that a permit that's that the applicant is supposed to come to this board for? No, that's a use of premises. The use of premises? Yeah, there's a parking in the rear proposing parking in the rear of the property. Yes. And that in that's a but's public alley 426. Okay. The rear. Okay. So let's get testimonies. Anybody here to speak in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Molly Griffin from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, our office would like to defer to the board's judgment. We did host no butters meeting on March 8th of this year where the applicant was able to answer some questions by a few neighbors who attended and they did meet with the neighborhood association of back base architectural committee and receive their support. Again, we'd like to defer to the board's judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Okay, so given that information, may I have a motion, please? Yeah, again, I'll make a motion to approve even though I don't think we really have a role in this. I would like to see the headhouse smaller, but I think we would be overridden by the architectural commission. So I'll just make a motion to approve. Okay. Are you in support? I'll go to second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all second. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, how do you do? You too. Calling the next case. Calling VOA 12806379, Denison Street. This is a change of arc from existing one family dwelling to a two family dwelling. The violations atical 50 section 43, Osprey Parking and Loading is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Is there anybody on for nine Denison Street? Maybe on let me just pull up the agenda again. There were two people who didn't check in. Stephanie, I don't see the name of the applicant. We can come back. We can come back to it. Thank you. Go to the next case. Calling POA 1270602, 10 Johnston Road. This is a finished portion of the basement, a commonate and office and recreational space for unit 2. The violations atical 60 section 9, the Floyd A ratio is excessive and atical 60 section 9. The number of habitable stories has been exceeded. Name and address for the record please. Hi, this applicant is on. Trevor, you can unmute yourself. I try to listen to requests to unmute you. Okay. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi. This is Trevor Blake representing Alexey Martin. He has this two family house on Johnston Street. He has a large family and young children and of course it's a very busy street on 10 Johnston Road. He'd like to create a space in the basement to allow his kids to play and for him also to have an office so that he can oversee his kids while he's there. It will not cause any harm to the neighborhood. It will add a little bit of recreational space for his family and I wish the board to approve his request. So can you tell us what page we should be looking at to see how the second unit is directly connected to the basement space and also we need to figure out if the utilities are separate and what the floor to ceiling height is in the basement. The floor to ceiling height in the basement is 8 feet 2 inches. There's a back stairs. Let me see if I can locate that. I'm having a little bit of difficulty. Madam Chair, the back stairs bypass the first floor. They go directly from the site unit 2 to the basement. So the plans that are up there now it's a set of stairs on the right hand side. Okay, okay. And what is the square footage of that basement space? I'm one moment. I'll tell you. I miss Ellen. Miss Ellen. Miss Ellen, there's kind of a G shape structure in the middle of the drawing or a C shape structure. What is that? That's for the petitions. I see. Okay. We're trying to partition the area so that the utility and the storage space in the basement is excluded from the recreational and office area. Yeah, the electrical panel and the gas mirrors are shown at the bottom of the floor plan. Okay, and then right next to finish basement, there's a C shaped structure and that those are petitions. I assume that's a closet of some kind, but yes, I mean, it doesn't say what it is. Their petition. Okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi, I've met a lot of people here. May I ask the neighborhood services for the evening Madam Chair, members of the board? Again, not to say people see if an emergency is also neighborhood services. The applicant had an abundance meeting room by the mayor's office on February 16th, where the questions and concerns were satisfactory, really addressed and support was shown. There was also one of butter as well as another butter that was a representative for the neighborhood association in the area, which is the Harvard Blue Circle neighborhood association. They show support as well as saw the proposal okay to move forward without coming before the association for the monthly meeting. The applicant also sent in a support petition that should be on file with the board with about 12 names with the butters who aren't supported the proposal at this time. With that, for me, some mayors office would like to go to defer to the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you so much. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. So it sounds to me like we usually approve projects that are directly connected, like floor to floor, whereas this one has a second floor unit to the basement. But I do think this has merit, but the proviso that may be suitable is that there be no bedrooms in the basement that it doesn't involve, evolve into sleeping space down there. Are you sure you it will not? Yes, but you know our relief goes with the building and not with the applicant. So we do need to make sure that our proviso is very clear, you know, to include that. So Mr. Oli, is that okay with you? Yeah, no, that makes sense. You want me to make a motion? Yes. Okay, motion to approve with the proviso that the basement unit not included bedroom. I'll second that motion. I do, I'm in support, so you're all set with that. Provides a good luck. Thank you very much. Calling the next case, calling BOA 1279 421 16 Hopkins Street. This is a good word, current one, fail me to a two family. The violations, article 60 section 40, obstreet packing is insufficient. Article 60 section 9, the number of habitable stories has been exceeded. Maybe now just for the record, please. Male is on as well. One second. Camille, I sent a request to unmute you. Can he hear us? Yes. Okay. Okay, Camille, you're on mute again. Okay, is it unmuted? Yeah, you're also going. Okay, perfect. Our architect Charles Bradley is actually on the phone. Please, can you put your name and address on the record and whoever's going to speak to describe the project, please also put your name and address on the project on the record, okay? Yep, my name is Camille Perry and I'm here with my husband Shane Reed, we're both owners of the property. Property address is 16 Hopkins Street and Dorchester Mass and Charles Bradley is our architect and he is also on the phone that will be representing us for the hearing. Mr. Bradley, do you want to put your name and address on the record and then tell us what's being proposed? Okay, he's on his, I think he's on mute, but go up Mr. Bradley, can you hear us? You're on mute. Okay, there you go. All right. Yes, I'm really going basically, excuse me, it's converted to a two family. What's the difference? Mr. Bradley, a couple of things, if you could put your address on the record and you're breaking up, so I don't know if there's something, if there's an issue with your audio. Okay, where am I supposed to put my name, is that? Just for the record, so verbally, which I'm going to address on the record, because this is the date. Okay, can you hear me now? Yes, go ahead. So my name is Charles Bradley and I'm the architect for 16 Hopkins Street and Dorchester. Okay, the phone name is the arch-professional group before we. Okay, so you propose the proposal is to is it to add a story to help create that second unit? No, no, we're not doing what I'm adding any story, which is going to be one unit one. So the first one will be unit one and the existing second floor is the attic, existing attic will be unit two. Okay, so just so that you know, this board is not keen on having livable springs in the basement, no bedrooms in the basement. So can you tell us, you know, what the floor to ceiling height is? Is it basement or is it a garden unit? Talk us through it. Okay. And we have family rooms down in the bathroom in a laundry room. We'll be heading back and we'll sound in that basement. No bedrooms in the basement? No. Okay, so tell us what happens on the first floor. So on the first floor, the first floor, you come to the best of your as soon as you come in, and that's the new best floor you walk through that door that will take you into unit one, which is the one of the floors that in the basement will be unit one. And you take the second floor, which will take you to unit two. And what's the square footage of the second unit? I don't have that number. I don't have that number. And what, sorry, did you tell us the floor to ceiling height in the basement? And did you tell us if the utilities are separate? The separate ceiling height is 7.44 feet in the basement. Okay. So I want to lower the floor. They want to lower the floor as well. Mr. Ola, can you help with this, please? Yeah, the living room in the basement is shown 7.44 as the architect says, and the room next to it, which is unspecified, but I gather as the playroom or the family room or whatever is 7.315. So, and a two family, it has to be minimum seven feet, so that's okay. The utilities are separate. And the house is somewhat elevated so that the bottom floor is not underground. Much of it is above grade, so that's not really an issue. And I think as long as there's a provider about no bedrooms in the basement, I think we're okay. Okay. Any sense in what the size of that proposed second unit is? Yeah, I was trying to get that answer for you. The plans don't have those, they'll show those dimensions. And, um, yeah, I mean, they're sufficiently silenced, but these are not, it's not a micro unit. That's what it's that way. Okay. Okay. Mr. Bradley, anything you want to add? No, just basically we made a point of trying to not anything to the building. I mean, the first basic was there's what's there. Just adding a new entrance, which is basically lining up with existing porch to the basement. Right now it's a bulk day. We're making an actual door to enter. Okay. And the public is going to step up the side to the other unit. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes. Good evening Madam Chair. Members of the board, Dr. People from the Marys office of neighborhood services. The applicant member with the, with the redefining our community neighborhood association on February 17th and having a butters meeting, one by the Marys office neighborhood services on March 23rd, 2022. We're questions and concerns where satisfactory we addressed and support was shown. At this time, the Marys office would like to defer to the board for your judgment on this matter. Thank you. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Yeah, I'm going to make a motion. I'm going to make a motion for a simpler approval. The BPDA recommendation is for design review, but there's really virtually nothing on, I mean, just a new entrance. So I'm going to make a motion for simple approval. Can we have no bedrooms in the basement? Yes, I'm going to provide. Yes, thank you. And it provides with no bedrooms in the basement. I'll second that motion. I tune M in support to your all second look. Thank you. Following your next case, calling B O A 1 2 A 0 4 9 4 38 summer street. This is to build up the back of the house two levels first floor and second floor kitchen bathroom and two bedrooms. New electric, new plumbing. One family they like to convert it to a two family. The violation is article 69 section 9, insufficient side. That setback second floor staff platform. Article 69 section 8, two family dwelling. It's a bit name and address for the record, please. May I have your on for this call? Can you raise your hand? This person didn't check in with me earlier, so I'm not sure who. We can come back, Jessica. I'll come back. I'll go back. Following your next case, calling B O A 1 2 6 3 2 1 7 9 96 to 9 98 river street. This is a cop a cop with cement slab, the violation. Article 68 section 8, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. We can move on. Lincoln is sent a request to unmute you. Can you hear us? Lincoln, can you unmute yourself? Yes, thank you. Lick the route, 996 river street, rear, a pro, a pro's in a car port and a car port slab. So it's not a garage, it's just a slab that you're proposing? Yes, and it is a company is going to come in and put up the car port. But we have to have the foundation, so we have that all by the architect, Richard, Richard, a smith. I'm having video problems for some reason. I cannot see the screen. And so I'm kind of a little bit blind on this. So let's see, is there any sense in what the siding is or the way the car port is proposed to look? I'm hold on, Mr. Oleg. No, all we have are two block plans, one without the car port and one with the car port. There's no rendering of what the car port looks like. We submit it. We submit all that to the city. You're supposed to be 30 by 24. Yes, so. Can you, to the applicant, can you just, since we don't have the, the drawing the renderer, and can you just tell us what is it like this for columns with a roof or I mean, what, what does it look like? Well, it's a slab with a slab with a roof, metal metal metal top, metal siding and on the door, on a garage door, a side door on a garage door. Okay, so it's in so it's in closed. It's not open air. It's not open now. And is it connected to the, will it be connected to the house in any way? No, man, no, it's effort. What would the violations, Mr. Olic or Mr. Ford? The violations are weird and insufficient. I mean, it's 16 feet from, from the family back, a lot line. Okay, and, and, and is so I'm assuming that this car port is pre-fabbed then? Yes, it is. Okay. I do have one question for the applicant. You seem to have plenty of room alongside the house for the, about 12 feet for the cars to go by except for one area where there's a stairwell on the side of the house. Do you know what the width of the driveway is at that point? It fits. It's a nine feet. All right, so it'll just barely get by but the rest of it is 12 feet so that's fine. The reason why we want is because the street is getting too busy and we want to take some of the car off of the street because my car got hit there a couple of times and I'm, people hit the car and break off the mirror and keep going. So I'm trying to avoid that. Yeah, so how many cars will be parked in the car port? You're two and so I'll have two extra space so, for the tenant and if I have a guest combined it will have a spot also. Okay, and you already, this drawings don't show it. Do you already have a curb cut? Yes, I do. It's an existing one. Yes, yes sir. Okay. Okay, and have you been, okay, okay, got it. Okay. What was the BPDAs recommendation on this? Johnston Hopkins approval with provisor. Okay. No, this is River Street. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening Madam Chair. This is and members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. I hosted in a butter's meeting for this on December 8th. And the applicant's completed the entire community process, notifying a butter's. They also were informed to notify the East River Street and neighborhood association. We have no letters of support or opposition for this proposal. So we'd like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, you have no raised hands. Thank you. May I have a motion place? Yeah, I'm going to make a motion to approve. And I guess, um, I guess design if you're just because we can't see it. So exactly. That's a good idea. I would second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set with that proviso. Thank you very. Calling your next case. Calling B.O. 1-2-8-1-3-8-2-27-Witmore Street. This is construction of a sunroom addition. The violation of Article 56 Section A. Dimensional regulation. A excessive FAR. Name and address for the record, please. Hi, good evening. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board for entertaining this proposal. My name is Maia Shaman. To Jordan. I'm the owner of 27-Witmore Street. My husband, Larry, Jordan, Jr. is also on the line. To tell us which proposal to do. Yes, ma'am. The proposed project is to add a sunroom to the side of our home. It's approximately 400 square feet. And we are adding that sermon in order to add additional daylight into our home. We have a beautiful old Victorian that doesn't get very much sunlight. I'm also have been working at home since the pandemic. So we like to have this as a workspace for myself. And we have put the proposal forward with the West Rocksbury neighborhood council. And did receive a unanimous vote in support of that. We also had a number of our neighbors participate in that. Meeting, particularly the principal of butter who avoids the vigorous support for our project. How are the plans? Your offices in Charlestown, right? My employer's office is in Charlestown. We've not been in the office since the pandemic. So I am effectively working from home at the present time. Mr. Olyck, how are the plans? It's a very nice addition. It's a sunroof with a lot of glass and light. Don't know how much work you'll get from home if there's a wet bar in it. But that's your call. It's very nice. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? You've named Madam Chair members of the board. This is Jake Lacey from the Office of Neighborhood Services. As the applicant Maisha mentioned, on March 15th, the applicant went in front of the West Roxbury neighborhood council and received a unanimous vote of support. And as also mentioned, the directive butters at 23 with a more street also provided their full support as well. We received no letters of opposition and at this time we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no waste hands. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I do them in support. So you're all set. Good luck with that. Thank you so much. Thank you. Following your next case, calling B O A 1 2 8 5 6 7 5 15 Montfield Street. This is at an additional parking space to the existing driveway and why the existing curb. The violation. Article 67 Section 9. This idea is insufficient. Amen. Address for the record, please. I tell, um, live at 15 Browns and Tarris and Jamaica Plain. I'm here on behalf of the owner of the house. Morgan Wells. And we're looking for one variance here. This is an existing driveway. I'm sorry, existing curb cut. Morgan will speak to what he wants to do in this, what she wants to do in a second. But I'm here as a favor. Morgan and I have known each other for 25 years. You know, we we love that. You're here in support. But please can we hear about the proposal if you don't mind? Yes. Well, I'll let Morgan tell you a little bit about herself and then what she wants to do. One, two, three. So Morgan, can you please go ahead and tell us what you're proposing? Yes. I have a two family house. I've lived there for 33 years. And I have one parking space in a curb cut. And I need a second parking space for my tenants. So this is, um, so you're at the corner of Montvale and Iona. Um, this, did this one just get a rehab? It's been in process. The rehab is not, or is it the inside of the house, not on the outside of the house? There was a property right next to mine at 19 Iona and that was a major rehab. So let me ask you, um, where is the proposed driveway? Is it on Montvale or Iona? It's on Iona. It's on Iona. Yes. That's perfect. I see. Okay. So you're proposing them as side by side? Yes. That's correct. Is there parking on that side of the street on Iona? Well, there's a curb cut at present time. It's always been there. And so no one can park there anyway. And there is a legal parking on all of Iona Street. Yes. Okay. So you will. So you are proposing to maintain the curb cut at 76 and not extend. No, it's proposing to extend it so that the second car can get entrance and exit from the space without going over the curb. Okay, but that that might create a problem because that eliminates another spot from the street. Well, actually, the the curb cut only has to be widened by about, I think it's approximately like five or five feet. And. Exactly. So that's about the little more than that. And you're you have another sparking spot. So because I'm just actually looking at it on Google maps here. It's actually not going to take away any of the existing. Okay. Okay. Mr. Oh, like how the plans. Well, so this is unfortunate. This is a corner lot, which complicates because it's obviously not front parking since he addresses Montfail and side parking. But if you were looking at it from the Iona perspective, it is front yard parking. You know, so I don't know how what we think about that. But I don't think there's any need to increase the curb cut to 14 feet. It's now I gather at seven foot sick. Well, I'm not sure what the existing is. Mr. Arlech, I'm madder chair. Mr. Demiko is spoken. That's like the foot is. Yeah. But what is what does Bob have to say about this? So regarding 15 Montfail, would 20 is okay since the parking is not in the front yard. There is ample space from the new ability from a BPD perspective. So he's he's saying there's ample space with the existing curb cut or with the expanded curb cut. From what I'm gathering on this comments, it sounds like there's there is ample space for maneuverability from the from his perspective. Yeah, I think he's talking about the parking spaces versus the curb cut. Yeah, he doesn't mention anything about curb cuts. Yeah, I would want to see the curb cut reduce from not be 14. Kind of the conventional 10 to 12. If it's centered, both cars should be able to get up. Yeah, exactly. And that streets of fairly busy street. I mean, it's fairly frequently occupied for on street parking. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office like to defer a judgment to the board. It's about the information in the community process. Through the OLS led process, we heard from a number of neighbors. Most neighbors were in favor of this project. Some have raised concerns regarding runoff from driveway as it pitches towards the street. And also other concerns about potential noise from the pavers. Another neighbor expressed that they wanted to see a proviso for offense installed. And then lastly, we received one letter of support for this proposal. And the applicant reached out to the LANA neighbor association. Thank you. They reached out to Lana. Interesting. So let me just see if I if I can think of anything. Okay. And sorry, Mr. Newman, when they tapped about offense, did they talk? Was that I assume it's for the rear or side yard? I believe it's the side yard. The applicant might be able to speak to that. Okay. Let's make a note of it. Yes, the fence. I agree to put up a fence between the 19th, I own a street property, which would be the side of their property, which would be the rear of my 15 month street property. Okay. Gary, the Gary, are you the applicant on this? No, it's Morgan owns the house and she's on the house for 30, 3 years. I'm sorry, Gary, because I was having technical difficulty. So got it. Okay. Okay. Okay. We heard from anybody else to speak on this matter. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make a motion to approve with a proviso that the curb got not exceed the standard 10 to 12 feet. And that we need BTD and BPDA review to make sure that happens. Sure. I'll second that motion. I too am in support to your all set, but that provides a good look. I'm going to next case calling B O A 126 1958 59 done boy street. This is extension of living space for innovation of a two family, or an addition and extended living space into the attic, the violation of the article nine section one extension of an on-conforming use. Article 51 section nine, insufficient side-led setback, name and address for the record, please. Good evening. My name is Andrew Falcansdine, and my address by office address is seven Kent Street in Brooklyn. So are you the do you live in this property? No, I'm the applicant for and the and the architect of record. So is this owner occupied? This is not an owner occupied. It currently it previously was owner occupied. This property is being renovated and the intent is to sell demos condominiums. Okay. I just like to have those kind of vacant properties heard at the full board so that there is sunshine on projects like this. Okay. So may I have a motion for the for all to the full board? So moved. I'll second that motion. I'm in support. What date? How far do we want to go for this one? Madam Chair, how far would you like to go out with this one? It doesn't matter to me. I guess we could here. I can see right if we do the poll here next Tuesday. We can do this. We can go for that. Yep. What's the date on that? May 24th. We can do May 24th at 1130. If you could just let me check my calendar for one second. Sure. May 24th. At what time is that? 1130. So you're probably looking at if we're if we're on a schedule or looking probably at one o'clock or one 30 but don't hold me to that but make sure you're on by 1130 if you are able to do that. Okay. Sure. I can do that. Okay. So we'll do the 23rd which is next Tuesday at 1130. 24th. I'm sorry. 24. Yes. Yes. Sure. Okay. Call in the next case. Calling B O A 1 2 7 7 2 1 3 43 P S 3. This is a change of our from a one family to a two family with new addition. The violations at a call 69 section nine usable open spaces and sufficient at a call 69 section nine the side. Yeah. It's a patient. And even that dress for the record please. Hi. Good afternoon everyone. My name is Joleen Collins. I'm the license contractor and I'm representing Bishop Glenn Prosper as well as Mrs. Pauline Prosper and 30 who are located at 43 Pier Street High Park, Massachusetts. We're coming up before the board. Seeking relief for two violations that are referenced in B O A 1 2 7 7 2 1 3. The two violations that we have actually have come from five that we had in our revise after revising the proposed plans. Excuse me. So we worked with the clients as well as the architect to revise these proposed drawings that you see in front of you today. And we also submitted it to the ISD office zoning board of appeal where they were able to essentially reduce the amount of violations to two violations. So that's good news. So tell us how describe to us how this is going to change from a 1 to a 2. So if we look at and I'm sorry if you can scroll to let me actually open it here so I can actually scroll. If you scroll to page 6 and 7 you're going to see the proposed basement floor plan and up to the proposed attic level. And what we decided to do in order to reduce especially the rear yard setback as we were revising was we decided to actually take a portion of the current home and add it into unit 2 so that we could create a separate space. So this is reflected on the first floor plan of the revised proposed drawings where you see the bedroom, the master bedroom with the bathroom. That is actually a part of the existing home. So we are just going to be taking some of the space from the existing home and then building out 45 foot addition from the home. Excuse me. And is it a two story edition? This is going to be a two story edition with an attic available for utilities and additional storage should they want to use the pull down. Okay so let's see so the height so the side yard so tell us what the rear yard is. What is required and what's being proposed? Okay so right now for the rear yard setback we have rear yard depth. The minimum is 40 feet and we actually are excuse me. So we have 56.6 feet in the rear so we have more than that 20 foot setback which I believe is the is the minimum setback. Okay how are the plans Mr. Oleg? On the plans we're okay this is a pretty decent size edition. My only question for the architect is the basement unit to the floor plan, the home floor plan. What is that space intended for? It just says basement on it. Yeah so that is actually going to be an unfinished space right now. So that's going to just be storage or whenever they'd like. That's fine. It does have the water heater down there as well. Yeah the plans are okay. Um so like this is reduced from a far far bigger proposal, a far longer proposal. That's why it's a rediscussion. Yes. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good evening Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. I held in a butters meeting for this proposal on February 3rd. They received support from a butters and they also received a letter of support from the high park central river and neighborhood group which has been sent to the board. They also have signatures of support at this time we'd like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary here we have those letters as well. Thank you. We may have a motion please. Motion to approve BPD A design review. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. You're all set but that provides them. Thank you so much board and Madam Chairman. Have a great night. Thank you. Good luck. Thanks. Madam Chair, I'm going to go back to two cases I called earlier. Is Dennis in street on? Or is is summer street on? Good evening. Yes, I'm here. Which you address, ma'am. Okay, hold on for a second. I'm going to call it back into the record. Well the record calling BOA 128049 438, summer street. This is the build up the back of the house two levels. First floor, second floor, kitchen bathroom, two bedrooms. Now is now one challenge they would like to convert you with two family. The violation article 69 section nine and sufficient side yet second set back, second floor, stair platform, and article 69 section eight, two family dwelling is the bid name and address for the record please. My name is Vittorina Eruzari and it's 38th summer street. High part is able to 1 3 6. So tell us what you're proposing to do. Hi, yes, so we're here. We were looking to get a relief on the board. Basically, I want I'm converting the house to two family because I'm going to have my daughter and my granddaughters move in and I realized that I have this space and we'll just see if we had a meeting with the neighborhood. And please, while you have and while we have the drawings up, explain to us what what you're proposing to do. Okay, so we can understand and tell us what drawings we should be looking at so we can understand. Okay, so I wasn't familiar. So I'm going to try my best because I wasn't sure if I was going to have to speak that I wasn't communicated, but I'll try to do my best. I think so what you have do you have the drawing that has the plan of what what let me see what drawing you have up because I don't I don't have the same one in front of me. Do you have any other drawings? So the two, okay, so the two bedrooms are for my two granddaughters and the other bedroom is for their mom, my my my daughter. Do you see that in the drawings? Okay. Um, you know, the drawings are okay in terms of the issues that we are concerned about. Um, there doesn't appear to be any living space in the basement. Is that correct? No, the basement just has like the water, heaters and just storage. And Mr. Oliq, second means of egress and how big are each units, each of the units? They're not dimension. So I can't answer that, but again, they don't look like my they're not micro units. That's for sure. And there appears to be the appropriate yes, there's there's two means of egress. I don't think there are any code issues. I don't think this is this is not a very complicated. And it looks like there's a rear addition going in. Yeah. Yeah, two floor addition. Okay. Okay. Dimensional regulations. Does that mean real yard? You probably mean to read some of street side yard setback. Okay. So you're comfortable with it with it, Mr. Oliq. Yeah, the drawings are not great, but again, it's just not an extremely complicated project. So it's okay. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good evening, Madam Chair, members of the board, Danielle Fonseca, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicants for 38th summer street completed the community process. They notified all the butters and I hosted the community meeting on March 8th. In addition, they also attended the Group Park Neighborhood Association meeting on April 4th, where there were no members of the association who were opposed to the proposal. They received letters of support, which have also been sent to the board. And at this time, we'd like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay, given that information, may I have a motion? I'm going to make a motion to approve the BPD80s under view. Okay. I'll second that motion as well. I too am in support. So you're all set with that proviso. Madam Ambassador, is Dennis in street on? Do you see the name? I do not. Any of the liaisons on that are familiar with who that my no jasons on? Jisun, do you know the applicant is here for that, Jasun? I don't have any raised hands. Okay, I'm going to call it into the record madam chair calling B.O.A. 128. 06379, Dennis in street. I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. I'll second that. I too am in support. So the motion carries. Meeting is now a june. We'll see everybody on Tuesday. Have a great weekend.