 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Recording in progress. Morning. The city of Boston zoning board for PO for July 26, 2022 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual meetings until March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom Leaven Air Event Platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, www.bottombe.com. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants, and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation material when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep their video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. They will be presented with a number of people who are represented officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints require. To that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public and the public. If you want to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom Webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be seated. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, for those of you connected by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand and star 6 to unmute yourself. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address us and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called. All the meeting hosts will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated periodically throughout the meeting. Just a reminder, if somebody has already stated either the concerns related to your support or your opposition, please put your name and address on the record and just state that your in support or in opposition. This is your opportunity to give us new information, so please use your time wisely. Okay, let's go to the roll call. Thank you, Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Oleg. Here. Ms. Dong. Morning, Madam Chair. Morning, Mr. Regiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Betr. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Fortune, the floor is yours. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first order of business is the approval of the hearing minutes of June 16, 2022 and June 21, 2022. Need a motion. Motion will approve the minutes. It's there a second. Second. Oleg. Oleg. Fortune. Hi. Dong. Hi. Regiro. Hi. Arrajo also I motion carries. On the first extension, calling BLA104-4130-218-220-0 colony out. Name and address for the record. Madam Chair, members of the Board of the Church of Marancy, I'm going to turn him into business address at 315 West Broadway and Salesforce to thank you, Mr. Marancy. We got in 218-220-0 colony row. The Board originally granted this relief on July 21, 2020 and it expired on July 21, 2022. COVID-19 does not apply to this relief because it was granted after the start of the state of emergency. This is the applicant's first request for an extension. I recommend the Board grant that extension. The Board signed it appropriate under the circumstances. Madam Chair, members, sorry I'm here at 315. So Mr. Marancy, this is a request for an extension for a 1-year extension until 721-23. Yes, but I do need to point out for the record. This matter was approved by the Board July 21, 2020. The date of entry of the decision was August 21, 2020. So my understanding is that the decision is valid for a period of 24 months from the date of entry. So I do not hold the date of entry expired. I see. God, I'd Mr. Broom, any comment? That's correct. So it's 821-23. Okay. I'll make a motion for a 1-year extension from the date of expiration. May I have a second? Fortune? Aye. Alec? Aye. Dong? Aye. Mr. Giro? Aye. A row, better? Aye. A row, Giro. Also in support. Motion carries. Expiration. 821-23. Thank you. Following the next case, your extension following the OA 770-654-1271-1275-Hoyles. Amen. Address for the record, please. My name is Brian Judge. I'm with the law firm. I'm a bullsman. The store is located at 400 Atlantic Ave in Boston. Thank you, Mr. Judge. Regarding 1271-1275-Hoyles from Street, this is a request to extend the board provider that sunset prior relief to the burn hotel related to the use of the parking lot. COVID-tolling applies to the sunset provider because it exists at Friar to the COVID state of emergency. The original expiration of the sunset provider is April 10, 2023, but the new toll expiration date from July 15, 2024. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that this is the new expiration date for that sunset provider. Mr. Wong-Wai, why is this parking lot? Why is there an extension on this? I'm out of here. This is the, I think, the question they have. If they sit at the hotel, requesting the board, send the sunset provider to the parking lot. It's a little bit out of the ordinary sunset provider and traditional extension of the road. So this would be something that makes it a little bit of a self-inspired route. It's got two years to make some plans. It does exist a trial to start the state emergency, a layaway to get the toll. Okay. So the date is, what is the date again? July 15, 2024. Okay. I want to make sure that, you know, for sunset clauses like this, that we could give some extra thought about the toll because I totally understand about the relief, but if for something like this, anyway, so is there a motion for an extension? I'll make a motion and confirm that the proviso is in effect until those at the July 15, the 2014, 2024 was the year. July 15, it's that's 2024. I'll second that motion, Secretary. Fortune? I. I like. I. I. I. Rigiro. I. Better. I. Arajo Alston support motion carries. Called a lot of extension calling the only 578 7665 Jackson Avenue. Amen. Add those for the record. I. Mike Delaruso, I'm here to represent Charlie Kim for 5 Jackson. Thank you, Mr. Delarosa, regarding five Jackson Avenue. The board originally granted this relief on July 29, 2016, but it was appailed to superior court in case was not dismissed until January 30, 2020, with litigation tolling this relief would not have expired until January 30, 2022. However, the applicant returned to the board of 2021 and received an extension of their relief until April 27, 2022. The extension was unnecessary because of the litigation tolling. Covetalling also applies to this relief. The COVID-covetalling has relief did not expire until May 7, 2023. I recommend the board for the record that May 7, 2023, is the new expiration date of this relief. That date encompasses both litigation and COVID-covetalling. Yeah, but can we turn on that date to request their first necessary extension? I'd like to make a motion to confirm the date of expiration of this inclusive of all tolling is May 7, 2023. There are two. Motion. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Dom. Aye. Grigiro. Aye. Better? Aye. Harajou also, aye. Motion carries. Following the board, final auditor, calling case BLA 831-064, 7, Madeline Street. David Address for the record, please. David Tollman, 17 Madeline Street, right, Mass. Tollman, good to see you. Can you please tell us why I hear for both final auditor? So that I could go up to extend that we're I got an extension previously to raise the roof of the back of the garage. And when my wife and I looked at it, it made more sense just to go up and make a smaller bedroom upstairs larger. Because it's actually a two bedroom cape. And they have that small one. So in the builder also said that it makes more sense. If you're going to change the roof, you should go right up and make the second small bit, a smaller bedroom larger. OK. OK, hold on a minute. I miss better. Have you had a chance to review the plans? Yes, I have Madam Chair. And you can sounds? No, not at all. May I have a motion, please? I'd like to. Motion to. Second. We'll continue VPD design review. Sure. OK. A fortune. Hi. Alec. Hi. Dong. Hi. With zero. Hi. Better. Hi. Arrive Joe also. I some motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Hongan XK is calling the LA103347510 high gauge street. They've been addressed with the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. And this is board attorney Jeff Drago with Drago. It's a scoundrel with a business address of 11 Beacon Street here and behalf of the applicant for board final arbiters. The realty, Josh Federman. And I also have Dan R. Teaches from in BART, the architects. The reason we were requesting board final arbitrar was back to the approved project from February 4, 2020. At that hearing, we were approved for a height of six stories, 71 feet. As the plans progressed, it became apparent that the existing conditions measurement was not accurate. And as a result, the building was actually 18 inches higher in its existing condition on the measurement. So nothing else structurally in the building would change. But we are seeking relief for that additional height. Oh, if it's not 71 feet, what is it? It would be 72 feet, six inches, Madam Chair. 72 feet, six inches. Miss, better you had a chance to review the plan. Madam Chair, I have, I don't see any issues. May I have a motion, please? Motion, no, no, no. We'll continue to define review. Jack, is there a second? Okay. Okay, for watching? Aye. Oleg? Aye. Don? Aye. Rijiro? Aye. Better? Aye. Arouge, O'olson, support, some motion carries. But thank you. The moment you're talking about review. Madam Chair, it's Jeff. Yes. I had a question about the extensions. Yes. Yes? These, is this the board's process now that anything with the sunset clause is just going to be an extension? Because there are several of them down for parking lots and even cannabis establishments. Exactly. And that is why I kind of had an issue with that because I do believe that they have to stick to their sunset clause and I do believe that they have to put a rationale on the racket for an extension. Yeah, I just wanted to make clear whether or not the agency should not be looking forward to seeing any more of these parking lot or parking garage extensions or if they're going to be dealt with purely through the board of appeal through their own extension process. Now, we need to go through process. This one, as you could tell, took me a little bit by surprise. But we will need it to go through process so that every kind of evaluation that we put in place. We didn't, we didn't extend anything. We just confirmed the date based on the 12th. No, no, we did extend it for one year because it expired for it expires 71523 and we extended it to 71524 and this is on 1271 to 1275 boils to. I don't know if that's Tom. We, I don't know if that's actually expired to April of 23, with the polling and the performance if you could pay. No, I got it. I got it. But if there is a, this is not, if there is, we should talk about this offline by, but Jeff, Ms. Sam tonight, completely agree with you. Let's just move on with our cases, but thank you for raising it in the public realm. Following your next case for groundwater case, BLA13188982, and the car industry. This is a change of our through three apartments, one store to three apartments. This is a group that private public loan unit accessed by a head house, the violation of the medical 32, section 32, that's the law. Damon, add the bill right away. Greg McKinsey for it. 82, I'm going straight. Thank you. Is Mrs. Seminella there? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Christian Seminella, Boston, groundwater Trust, and we have both letters from the applicant. Madam Chair, we have the letters as well. May I have a motion, please? Motion approved. Okay. Okay. Fortune. I. I like. I. I. Dong. I. Rosero. I. Better. I. Around you. Also approval motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. I call the 930 here. For any deferral who withdrawals, this is for the 930 here. Only any deferral who withdrawals, give me the address first, please. Thank you. They're in. There's a raise. Can you. Do you mean to raise your hand? Talking about my never all set. Sorry about that. I was calling. The first case, BoA 1271035 62 put them straight. This is a change of. I'm a single-failing. Hall. Do a 2 family home, also do. exterior renovation, including a rest of the IRL stair, and extended living spaces to the basement of the unit one, but to propose addition to the right side of the dwelling. The violation of Article 32 Section 4 is because Article 53 Section 56, Office for Rehpiking and Consubiscion Article 53 Section 9, Insubiscion and Additional Lotterian for Unit Article 53 Section 9, process of FAR Article 53 Section 9, Insubiscion and Additional Lotterian for Unit Article 53 Section 9, Insubiscion and Additional Lotterian for Subback, naming address for the record label. Thank you, Madam Chair, members, board attorney Jeff Drego with Drego in Tuscata with the business address of 11 Beacon Street, here on behalf of the owner developer, and architect, Philip Seema. I just wanted to clarify the record because the description still is incorrect from what we now have, but it's better when have the proposal now is to change the occupancy from a one family to a two family home. So that's been reduced from four. So does that change any of the violations? It does, Madam Chair, if I could just finish also because something else changed, it's gonna change those violations as well. There is no longer a third story addition, it's just to infill the second floor. And as you mentioned in doing all this, we do eliminate height violation, lot area violation, youth violation, and G-COT is not applicable in this area that was actually removed and are host updated, a refusal of the system to give an energy caught area. So yeah, okay. So this is article, I don't see G-COT, I see iPod, but let's go ahead, tell us about the proposed size of the units. Sure. So the building will remain in tax, it's an existing structure. How did you get Mr. Drago, and you're into a few for two seconds there. What I read off was the updated July 20th, 2022 letter, has that changed sense you're saying? There was, it was just an accidental, we had emailed and spoke to Frank Demado, the plans examiner who removed the G-COT violation. So it's just not applicable. Okay, because I read into the record for single mailing onto a two-mailing on it. But correct, but on the agenda, Mr. Secretary, it's still set for, so I just wanted to make sure that that was clarified if the mailing went out or went out on the agenda. Yeah, I think there's advertised, let's go ahead, Mr. Drago. Okay, sure. So the garden level, I'm not sure, the significant rate change on the building as it exists, unit one would have a lower level and an upper level, as you can see, that's the existing structure right there. The total square footage would be 1,410 square feet for that by level unit. It would have two bedrooms, two baths with nine foot ceiling height and the lower level, and then it would have one bedroom, one bath kitchen living area and the upper level with a rear patio. The second unit, this is the two unit building, is 837 square foot, two bedroom, one bath with kitchen and then a rear patio as well. It also has green space in the back that would be shared by the two condo owners of the building. Yeah, and I'm assuming that it's impossible to provide parking. It is not a chair, correct? Yeah, I'm not thinking. How would the plans miss better? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board and it's all you need, so if the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services are office-posted to a budget meeting for this project, one in March 22nd and the other one in April 27th. This project was originally proposed as four units, came down to three and then two. So what is very pleased with the two units, the design and characteristics of the college presented, the applicant also met with the Eagles Eagle Health City Association in March and May of this year. It wrote it to support the project 1422. Our office also received six letters of support and the applicant has worked with the community all throughout the process by lowering the density, maintaining the character and the original features of the house like color scheme and wood design. At this moment, our office relates to the core management support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. I'm sorry, there is a Sebastian. I'm sorry, Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have seven support letters. Sebastian, are you looking to give testimony here? It's open, you state your name and address for the director, please. Yeah, for sure. My name is Sebastian, and I'm the boss and liaison for Concert Colleta. I'm here again in support for this project on behalf of Concert Colleta. We have also received multiple letters on support from the community. Thank you, welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hampton, the BPDA recommends design review when it was posed as a four family. Is it necessary now that it's a two family? No, the only reason, I don't think so. My role in Concert was the rear yard setback, but I mean, we don't need design review for that. No. Okay, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Very second. Second. Fortune. Hi. Oleg. Oleg. Donald. Hi. Regiro. Hi. Better. Hi. Arroujo Alpsman supports a motion carries. Thank you, members. Love. Thank you very much. Following the next case, Colleta BLA 13202-117 Concert Street. This is the confirmed opportunity of the one family. So it's both gotten renovation, interior, extension of the living space to the basement. It constructs the rear stack of the story edition. New ground, fundraising, shed dormant, and existing third floor, and a new first floor open air rear deck. Violation dot at the 62nd section, 25, roof structure restriction, naming address for the record. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Patrick Swing. I'm a trainee with Marisi Swing, 261 Main Street, child's down here today representing Alice in Michael Webber, the owners of property. Madam Chair, members of the board, the Webber family is looking to extend, it's being this marginal, I believe it's 377 additional square feet that will be added. The issues that were raised in public meetings, that were- Okay, I'll ask you, Mrs. Swing. Yes. So this, tell us about the living space in the basement. The living space in the basement will be a family room, your honor, they have young children. Okay, got it. And since their violation is roof structure restrictions, tell us about what's going on up there? Yes, Madam Chair, roof structure violations, the change in profile, they're having dormers on the front and on the rear. Those were brought to the attention of the applicant by a couple of abuters. They have shrunk down both of those dormers and at this point in time, we have letters of support from the abut around the left and the abut around the right. Hold on, please, Mr. Swing. No? Lions must better. Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. I just wanted confirmation on the height of the ceiling at the basement and at their level at the dormers. Madam Chair, I would ask, Jim Pinguiri is on as a panelist. Jim, can you answer that? I knew yourself. Chair, just, just by wrong. Let me keep on. Mr. Pinguiri, come on. I'll mute yourself and tell us about the floor of the ceiling height as in the basement. While he's doing that, any other questions from the board? Yeah, also, in addition to Florida ceiling height, it would be helpful to know the floor at a grade height. It looks like most of the basement is below grade. OK, so while Mr. Pinguiri is looking it up, let's get testimony. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, I'm members of the board. Connor? Yep. Madam Chair, I'm members of the board. Connor with the Mayor's Office and Ablehood Services. At this time, we're off-site to defer judgment to the board. We held them in butter's meeting on May 2nd. Concernings regarding the height, size, and dormant were addressed by the applicant and the development team. The applicant has worked closely with the neighborhood and so far, I'll receive no letters of support or opposition, although at the butter's meeting, one butter did verbally indicate their support. That would defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have four support letters. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Miss Ambassador, anybody else? Which I have no additional raise gains. OK, Mr. Pinguiri, you have a few questions to answer. Let's go. 84 inches clear in both the basement and on the third floor. And we can't. And the next floor. Board of Board. Sorry? Floor to grade in the basement. OK. It is 3 foot 9. The drawing looks like it's more. OK. Mr. Hamilton, what was the VPD's recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair, Madam Chair. Board, we recommended approval with design review. It's in the neighborhood design overlay district. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion approval with the land review. It's our second. Second. Fortune. Aye. All in. All in. Don. Aye. Regiro. Aye. Better. Aye. A row, Joe, aye. Motion carries. And also to inform all participants, we have a six member board. And you need five members in support for your case to be approved. Also, if given that fact, you would like to request an administrative deferral, you are welcome to do so. OK. Let's move to the next case. On the next case, calling the OAA 1346292101 to 117 Atlantic Avenue. This is a chain of art, 5,577 square feet, the former ground floor restaurant, the living room, to KinderCare Daycare Center, renovating Connection and adjacent, existing 1,548 square foot daycare center. The violation of the 54 and Section 12, the daycare center is conditionally used. Name and address for the record, please. The lighting volume is rolled, and the cooking is lowered 28 stage three, that we have to be recorded. I had Mr. Ferrelo. Good morning, Madam Chairman, is the board. We are before you're asking to convert space in the mercantile rough building, which is so the rough and waterfront of the granite block, that area. And this space, as indicated, has been a full-shore and the thrust drive. KinderCare operates that smaller space to the right of it, partly the KinderCare 20 years now, additionally, that have other space in the building that far end. This would allow them to join the space, create a larger space, and actually be able to add 26 more shoulder gear rolls. I'm sorry, Mr. Ferrelo, what is the total number of kids then? I'm totally the bring it to 6. Yeah, it is currently quiet too. Okay, 42 to 68 kids, okay? And we know that this needs approval from the state as a daycare facility. I'm assuming it meets chapter 99 requirements as a public space, space of public accommodation. Let's see, how are the plans, Ms. Benner? Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. I did have a question regarding accessibility. Do you currently have any accessibility to the daycare center? Yes, the main building has a central entrance, which is fully having access to both of you, like the outside. So you see the atrium on the right of that picture. You'd be able to access to the at-gate. Okay, thank you. I just didn't see any accessible entrances in the expansion. So thanks for answering that. But I do think that's important in case of an emergency. Is there other accessible spaces? If you have children who need that? As far as the rest of the exits, the rest of the exits involved stay in it. But there's not all available to the atrium. If you look at the plan, you'll see the multiple ways of exiting the space into the atrium that may probably be in the outing exit entrance. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to either speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman, with the Mayor's Office and the Board Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office likes to defer judgment to the board. Our office held in a butter's meeting on June 6th of my understanding, no concerns for raised. New Reload with the AF active civic association that area felt that the applicant did not need to come and present to their board. They wish some the best and offer their support as well. With that, we defer to the board. Thank you. The Mayor, Chair, I have no raised hands. Mayor, have a motion. Sorry, Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have one letter of support. There was just some concern about island vehicles from their applicant. I mean, I'm not the applicant, the person who wrote the letter of support. I don't know if that's being addressed with the community. Okay, let's get a motion. Motion. Okay. Is there a second? Hi. I do. Go ahead, Madam Chair. I do want to recommend that the applicant does reach out to the neighbors because I did read that in the letter, some concerns regarding delivery of vehicles and engines being on for a period of time. Okay, so we have a motion for a approval. Is there a second? All those in favor? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I keep going back into my bad habit. Mr. Fortune? Hi. All right. All right. Dawn? Aye. Rizzero? Aye. Better? Aye. A rowge will also support some motion carries with a strong recommendation to reach out to neighbors and to address all traffic and drop off issues. Good luck. Thank you. Long and next case, following the OAA 132-8776-121 St. Patal Street. This is the renovated top floor of Unit 4 to relocate kitchen, recapture formerly in terrorist space, in a area where you can refinish the existing deck area. The violation of the Article 41, Section 5, the FAR proposed exceeds two addition proposed, proposed exceeds 45 feet in height, and Article 41, Section 6, group five, additions, the addition proposed exceeds 45 feet height. Name and address for the right. Hi, my name is Derek Tyler. I'm the Chief Operating Officer of Sleeping Dog Properties, located at 1745 Washington Street in the south end. Tell us with some being proposed here. The unit number four is split between two floors, level four and level five. The level five, they have a roof deck, and they face the rear alleyway, where the level five actually faces St. Patal Street. So in the back, we are looking to add on 217 square feet, basically to the left side of the building. You can see where we are proposing to include a kitchen, and that basically the small corner in the bottom there is the proposed addition. The, and speaking with, you saw back up. Yes, so this is, the addition would be in perhaps somebody after kitchen? That's correct. The line going horizontal where it shows the window, that's the current, the rising wall, and the whole back is existing roof deck. So we're proposing to include the livable space for our kitchen. Okay, how would the plans be better? The adventure, the adventure adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor of South St. Patal Services. Ward knows we've had a lot of turnover with staff. We don't have a lot of information on the community process. I can say that in our office, it's not received any of the letters of the board or opposition. We are not aware of any concerns at this time. I would that would refer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I could, if I could add, we did have a number of. Please, please. I just want to hear from Ms. Thomas, from Mr. Alper. Madam Chair, I'm raised with the chance. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Hampton, what's the BPD's recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. We recommended approval. I think this falls under jurisdiction of landmarks, so we'll kick it to them. Okay, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Thank you. Let's just see fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Dong. Aye. Rijiro. Aye. Better. Aye. Also, aye. Samosha. Carries. Good luck. Great. Thank you. Following the next case, following BLA-115-2699, 18 Greenwich Street. This is a repair, replaced, three red decks, and extended rooms. The violation of the client section 1, reconstructed an extension of an on-conforming building. Article 5565, section 9, insufficient side-gen setback. Name and address, further records. I follow the rules. I follow the rules. I follow the rules. I follow the rules. Hello. Yes. Yes. Yes. It's go ahead, put your name and address on the record, and tell us what's being proposed. Aye. So many of them, so I would like to ask one more room for my two daughter, and I would like to replace three red decks. So I would like to add a two-room, two check for my ten and two. So this is a two-family, and that's three-family. So it's a three-family, a two-family district. You want to add an additional room and replace the decks. It's better. How are the plans? Better to choose a plan or add a bit. You know, I had a quick glance at the parking. Is that a plan? Yes, that it. And it's any issues? Okay. Any question to the board? Is anybody here to speak? You therein' support or an opposition of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Kevin Jen here from the Mayor's Office of the Magistrate Services. We have no butters meeting on May 23, 2022. We receive no concern from the community, and a few-spotor-centric-association is in support for this matter. At this point, our office would like to defer a definite to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Let's see, Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair. We recommended approval. We don't believe we need to design review on this unless this better feels otherwise. No, I don't think so. So do I have a motion? Good morning, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, this is Joe McGathey. This is Joe McGathey with City Council of Frank Baker's Office. We'd like to go and reckon and support the applicant. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put a motion for approval. So, second, fortune. Thank you. Aye. All right. All right. Don. Aye. Rizero. Aye. Better. Aye. A round, Joe, also, in support, so motion carries the lovely. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. I'm going to ask, please. Thank you for putting it in contact because my concern was about this full family in a two family zoning district. But Mr. Lee, please go ahead and very quickly talk through all the violations. Yes, this is Ms. Al Benjamin Lee and then with Michael Washington Architects, 12.8 W Parkway, 21 West Roxbury. So we are proposing for units and the violations, the violations will be into three stories, instead of two and a half stories. And the highest, I believe the parking actually has been resolved. So the violations are the three stories and the use going from a two families to a four family. So three stories means how many feet? It's going to be 35 feet. So it's 35 on the nose, okay? Is there any basement occupancy? No basement occupancy. And give us a breakdown on the units, one, two, threes and the average credit. There will be two units in the front and two units in the back. The two ground floor units will be with 940 square feet and 1150 square feet. The two upper units will be approximately 2400 square feet. Okay. And I'm assuming the 2400 is bedrooms. Three bedrooms, three bathrooms, the lower two units are two bedrooms and two bathrooms. Interesting. The move towards each three bedrooms and three backs. Okay. How the plants must better? I'm sure that plants are adequate. Any questions from the board? I would like to know if your director butters, 17 and 13, I support the project. I can answer that. Is better. I can answer that. We have. Yes. The answer. That question specifically. We have 14, 13, 14, 16, 17, as well as 8, 10, 11, 12, and of the 15, of the 15 that I mentioned. And those have been submitted to the board already. But there are 15 throughout the entire, but as far as those, the butters, those are the ones we told we have led us. Okay. Thank you. Because if we did receive about 41 signatures in opposition, it's just clear. But I would be sure I have not received that, but I don't know what those addresses are, but these are the butter. And you know what the. Thank you. Is any other questions from the board? I'm just wondering how the 35 foot height compares to in contact here is to the same in particular the building buildings on the right to the right. The building to the right is I would say that they are higher than 35 feet because they are elevated from steps. The nature of the the Gable roof, the architecture is similar to this to that's to the right. And then that's 13, part, and to 17 is a man's or in structure is two stories. So that that will be lower to the proposed building. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support of our opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with Mayors Office of the neighborhood services, our office held the butter is meeting July last year. No concerns raised by a butters at that meeting. Nevertheless, concerns persisted within the St. Marks area civic association with members expressing they felt the home is too large for the lot that's located on. We received a letter of opposition from St. Marks, our office also received 15 letters of support at the phone and indicated as well as two letters altogether of opposition without any deferred to the board. What is the opposition based on? I think it's similar to what St. Marks concerns were the size of the building for that line. Madam Chair, Secretary here, we do have those we have 12 opposition letters and signature of all those in opposition as well. We only have five support letters in our front. Okay. So let's. Okay, so Mr. Ambassador, anybody else? Yes, there were a few ways to answer your. Is any of the elected officials on that to give testimony? If not, I'll open a floor to Jordan. Can you state your name and address for the record, please? How many is Jordan, not about 33 Arden Street? So I just to clarify one point that was made. I believe this should be a weather from him at 13 Arden Street in opposition. So I don't know any other residents there supported with 13 that I know the position. I don't know if I can find out the floor. Tell us the reason for your opposition and any other speakers lined up. Please give us additional information. Do not repeat this long. Long. Long ever has put on the record. Thank you, and apologies. I oppose this because it is very incongruous with our neighborhood. I think it's a very important thing to do. Mostly single family to unit at the turn up building the turn of the century. The one multi unit area that we have is at the corner of daughter up and even those buildings. Around 5,000 square feet each with each unit being 700 to 800 square feet to have such a large building in the middle of our area of the block would really impact the character and the culture. We have a lot of flooding on the street and we also have the concern additionally about the wrath of community engagement. We were never notified of any of our meetings. We were not even notified of this hearing. The St. Marks president is the one who let us know Thursday night slash Friday morning. So there is great concern of that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Well, we're good. Good morning. I'm Adam Chen board members. Of course construction plans for 15 partners. We just extremely to aggressive for this area. The proposal for you in the economy and construction at 15 apartments. We are allowed to lack of adequate open space and severely diminished the quality of life for us inhabitants and neighbors. We are allowed to make the area. Strangely to to crowd. Thank you. We grew up in the same house. So I have a hold on. May I have the next person and please give us new information. Madam chair, can I ask for Robert's address? She didn't give that when he presented himself. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, VJ. Were you looking to get testimony here? Yes. Hi. My name is VJ. I was so happy with this director of the engagement councilor. I represent the councilor district for the councilor. Brian Riles office. Our office would like to go on record in opposition to this project due to community concerns and an outboard of engagement from the community in opposition for the project. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Jack. Uh, councilor. Marky's office. Go ahead. Hi, it's Jack. I'm a councilor. Mayor. He's office. We'd also like to go on record in opposition. Thank you. Thank you. I have no additional waste hands. Okay. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? Madam chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice. Is there a second? Okay. Thank you. Fortune. Hi. Alec. Hi. Dawn. Holly. Richero. Hi. Better. Hi. A ragia oppose, but motion carries. Um, so thank you, Mr. Feaster. All right. Thank you very much. Uh, chair, Madam Chair, and members of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know six. Number. Is the applicant on before Mr. Fortune reads all this information into the record. Jennifer, is that I see your hand is raised on the scripture? Are you being applicant here? The permitting council on behalf of the applicant. It's a joint project between Boston Children's and Skate Presidential, and yes, we are prepared to proceed. Okay, thank you. Just need that on the record. Go ahead, Mr. Fortune. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is to a record approximately 280,920 square foot mixed use building consistent of 393 residential rental units. 53 institutional patient family housing units at 1600 square foot first floor retail space. The load rate factor for over 200 vehicles and eight surface parking spaces. The violation is Article 32, Section 32-4. This is the D-Cod. Article 61, Section 7, the local retail uses for the Article 61, Section 11. The Rhea Addison sufficient, Article 61, Section 11 FAR has been exceeded. Article 61, Section 11, the building height has been exceeded by 45 feet, the proposed 190 feet. This is Article 61, Section 13. The neighborhood district overlay district. Article 61, Section 20, Roost Ruxer Rescriptions, Article 61, Section 8, the Lot area, and additional Lot area required. Article 61, Section 8, open space, it's sufficient. Article 61, Section 8, the Maxwell Lot FAR. Article 61, Section 8, the building height, maximum 45 feet, the proposed 198. This is for the 19th Deacon Street, the construction of nine Ancillary parking spaces. For the benefit of 829, 833 Deacon Street, the violation is Article 61, Section 10. It's a review for five parking spaces, additional, Article 61, Section 7. It's a review for three parking spaces and bike storage and 10 bike racks, and the abuse is conditioned. Name and address, pull the right of the face. Good morning, Chairwoman and members of the board. My name is Jennifer Schultz. And I am a permanent counsel on behalf of the Joint Applicants for this project. I work at Sullivan and Worcester with the Business Address of one post office square in Boston. This is a, as I noted, a joint housing project between Boston Children's Hospital and Skate Presidential. It comes forward with a proposal for 53 Boston Children's Hospital family units for families of children who are in the hospital and 377 multi-family rental units. The project comes forward with great support after a lengthy four-year process, including support from the Autobahn Circle. Thank you. Can you, as counsel, please talk to the, to the violations we'll hear about the process from the mayor's office? But please use your expertise to tell us about the details of this project. Yes, Madam Chair. And actually, with the picture that's on the screen that shows the multiple colors and the site plan, I think is the best one to look at. So the relief being sought is due to the unique nature of the site. This is the site that is in three zoning districts. As you can see, it's a multi-family residential district in yellow closest to Beacon Street. I'll follow the beneath that by the local convenience sub-district in pink. And then off on the bottom left-hand side of the screen is a small portion of an open space district. In addition, running through the site is an MBTA tunnel and easement area. And so as a result of those three circumstances unique to the site, the project has had to build to the edges of the site and hire instead of being able to take up more space that would put in load on the tunnel that the MBTA would prefer that we not bear. In addition, a unique nature of the site and the project is that it is surrounded mainly by PDAs. But because of this lit-zone district, there was a portion of our site that was not PDA eligible and the BPA staff instructed the project proponent to seek variances and conditional use permits instead of a zoning amendment in order to make the entire site. PDA eligible like it's adjacent neighbors, the Fenway Center project, and on the other side the multi-use path, 109 Brookline. And so as a result, we're seeking relief for FAR and height, which comes from loading in this sort of H-shaped building. And then as you cross from one zoning district to the other, you end up with technically zero log lines and no setbacks because the zoning district shift throughout the site. The part that if you could address is given the short yards, side yards, can you tell us what impact it could possibly have and that they are 17 stories? What kind of impact shadow impact would be on the others? And so to answer those questions, I'd like the project to architect, Rich Curtis from Gensler to respond. If he's able to be recognized, if not, I'm happy to. Yeah, go ahead since you have the floor. Chad, I can touch on that as well. Because Andrew Flynn, the proponent, we worked closely over the past few years with the BPA and with all the neighborhood stakeholders and buyers to manage the shadow impact, including most recently in mid-2021 and fall of 2021. We moved that building in the left corner that you see, who moved that much farther away from the others to the southwest in order to further mitigate the shadow impact and run past them. Okay, and then we noticed that open space space, is that still being maintained? Yes, it is. Okay, and let's see what are some of your other violations. Talk about the Encelerary Parking Place. Yes, Madam Chair. So the Encelerary Parking is solely to address eight surface spaces that are already in existence and in fact in use by the adjacent property, a condominium. And so seeking relief for the eight Encelerary spaces is to make those spaces in the use of those spaces. They are solely to be utilized by the adjacent condominium and not by this project or project proponent. Okay, so what is the address of the adjacent condo? It is 829 through 833 beacon stream. It owned by David Lapidas as trustee and the Cypress royalty trust. Okay, so should this be approved, this should go into the record that it's Encelerary Parking to 829 to 833. Okay, and tell us about this 393 residential units. Tell us about the breakdowns of studios, ones, twos, et cetera, the number of square proposed square feet. If there's any percentage in there, that's affordable. Yes, yes, Madam Chair. So I'll just begin by noting that we are in fact seeking less relief than what we originally requested because we have removed one story. You see, what was just on the screen in negotiations and discussions with our butters, we agreed to remove that one story, which drops the number of units from 393 to 377. But with that in terms of the breakdown, I will pass it back to Andrew Flynn from Skype to give you those details. Yes, Elinate Rich Curtis from Denver as a panelist as well. I'm going to get on the hand. On the way. With regards to the units to your Black Madam Chair, we are closely with the state council's office and the neighborhood to increase the amount of onsite affordable from an required 13% to 15%. The third percent will be 70% AMI and an additional 2% units will be at 100% AMI, bringing 15% of the total units to be a four-mole conference for the units. With regards to the unit mix of the 307 units to Jim Remfrence, 35% of them are studios. I understand them are one bedrooms, 13%. Sorry, you're speaking too fast. 35% of studios, what's the average square footage of those studios? This is Rich Curtis, I'm on as well from Gensler at one beacon. On the blanks. So the studios are around 335 square feet. The one bedrooms are about 52%. 2% is around 50 to 505 square feet. The two bedrooms is around 13% or so and they range from 660 to 680 square feet and the three bedrooms, there's about 3%. They range from 840 to 860 square feet. These are all part of the compact living. Sorry, I'm getting it. And the three bedrooms, what? Around 840 to 860. Oh, well, okay, okay. And so is there compact living? Tell us about the shared space and the activity in the shared space. So for these units, they do have a very expansive and many space on the first floor that ranges from around 14,000 square feet. And everything from kind of like we work the areas to common dining areas, to Jim's fitness, private dining and private dining areas and things like that. And will this space also be open to the 53 of family patient units? They actually have their own common spaces, which is much more of a different atmosphere. Obviously it's a place of support and a good interaction for the families that are existing there. So they have their own floor of many space as well as an outdoor space that is in between the two buildings. And let's just see how the plans must better. Madam Chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? I just noticed there is, are there roof decks being proposed? Question for the applicant, are there roof decks being proposed? There currently is one, well there's a roof deck that is on the first floor, second floor, first floor roof, but second floor for the BCH Family Center that you're looking at right now in the center. And then up on the 10th story on the left side, there is a kind of a more modest many space for the residents. And that is actually a communal garden area. So it's not a place of gathering, but more a place of a place where each unit may have a space for gardening. And then the primary terrace for the residents is on the back of the project overlooking the multi-use path. Okay. And is this called silver lead? What is it? Our target is gold. Gold, okay. So, can you ask some more? Yeah, so just the common space is the entire first floor of both high-rise buildings is just trying to, what's the question? If you could scroll down to the plans, the first floor plan, it kind of winds from the northeast of the site through the connector building to the southwest of the site. So up, I think one more, there you go. So, whoops. That one plan you were just at. Ah, there you go. So as you can see, the pink there is the resident amenities space and the blue is the entry for the BCH family center, but that there are amenities based on the second floor. Does that answer your question, Mr. Giror? Sort of, but yeah, what do we, but in there's no current programming really yet? There are, for the amenities spaces, the residences? Correct. There is, there's fitness areas, there's a yoga gym area, there's a common dining area. So if residents, you know, want to come down and have events down there, they can go down there. There's also places for them to work, conference rooms, smaller huddle rooms and things like that and run through it as well as kind of lobby space and just general lounge areas. What was the rationale in eliminating the retail at that corner? Speak to that. That was, we worked closely with the Audemont Circle Neighborhood Association regarding the perspective, presence of retail on that corner. And in working with them, there was a request to remove that retail. So as not to inadvertently overactively that street furniture. That's why the retail is available. Shad, is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. Christian Seminelli-Boss, and Robert Fruss, and we have both letters from the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have those letters as well from the Secretary. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Board, I'm Mr. Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office, Neighborhood Services. The time of the Mayor's Office, I'll say, for judgment to the board. Just proposal went through a lengthy, deep-deep-led community process. And also, as we heard, the applicant reached out and worked with several civic associations acting in that area. We understand that a lot of voices in the community that were excited about additional housing meeting added, as well as some concerns regarding pick up and drop off generated outside of the building and the potential of students moving into the community. New units, with that, we defer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have letters of support. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few raised hands. I'll start with Dolores. Can you stay tuned in and address for the work that please? What's going to mean? Madam Chair, when appropriate, I'd like to speak as well. Oh, I'm sorry, who was that? Councillor Kansi-Gaub. Go ahead, Kansi-Gaub. Go on. Thank you. I'm my apologies to Dolly, who's done a lot of work on this. You'll hear from her in a moment. I just wanted to express my strong support to the board for this proposal. There has been really extensive public process and I think it's made it a much better project, but there's just a few things that I really want to highlight for the board. One of them is the fact that obviously this family housing for families at the most vulnerable moment of their lives when a child is sick is, I think, an important hospitality thing for us to provide. And it's, again, again, been repeated as the community has something we're proud to provide here. The multi-use path, which the project's providing a key connector for, it's really important for me and the Boston Transportation Department in terms of creating that multimodal connection in Fenway, and we have such traffic snarl there that it makes a huge difference to have that running through the middle. But the big thing I want to stress is that in the Fenway, I'm seeing just tons of proposals that are all commercial lab office, and it's creating increased workforce demand to work in the area, but really not seeing parallel housing. And this project is an exception to that. And then the proponent worked really proactively with my office around really operating in the spirit of the Affirmative-ly Furthering Fair Housing Zoning Amendment, even though the project had been filed prior to that, so it's not sort of officially under it. So an example of that would be that we actually looked at the report generated on the BPDA website about the specific catchment area, and here only 6.6% of household type of member with a disability versus 22.7% citywide, that speaks to the old and very inaccessible housing stock. And so an example, something the applicant did was they agreed to double their number of required ADA units from 5% to 10%. There's also only 5.7% families with children here, whereas for that number is 22.4% citywide, that led the applicant to actually shift the mix of their building to have more two and three better units than prior. And then, as was mentioned by the applicant, they've also agreed to add, in addition to doing the affordable housing on site, add 2% moderate income housing, and what's neat about that is both that middle income branch is something that the family zoning specifically calls for, but they also agreed to put it below the maximum payment standard for our BHA voucher households. So it'll actually be accessible both to this moderate income households and the households that might hold a voucher. And for your reference, BHA mobile voucher, holders make up 5% of citywide residents, but they only make up 0.3% of residents in this catchment area. So it really felt like they partnered with me on, okay, how do we help make a part of the city that is inaccessible to certain protected classes, according to fair housing law, more accessible in this housing, and then just worked again and again with the Audubon Circle Neighborhood Association. And as you see from the support letter, and I won't go into it because I know Dolores is on, but I think it made some really substantial commitments and have made the project better. So I'm strongly in support, Madam Chair, and I hope that the board will see fit to approve this today. On the floor, I like your emphasis and thoughtfulness on statistics, and I know you have a background in housing. So one of my questions was this 70% and 100% AMI. Are you comfortable with that or has there been a thought in the Fenwayan, as other projects move along to make it more accessible to people like maybe 50 or 40 or something like that? Yes, so thank you, Madam Chair, and actually that gives me a chance to expand on something that I feel really passionate about, which is, so really the best way that we can get those, like zero, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% AMI households into these inclusionary units is actually by pairing up a federal subsidy with our inclusionary policy, because the reality is that to house, for instance, family like much of our BHA and Vowsha portfolio families are actually at that 10, 20%, 30% AMI mark, but to achieve that in terms of just a straight-up profit transfer right with these plans would involve many fewer units for deeper affordability. And so what I think is really exciting is the idea of looking at places where we actually have the federal government offering, deep subsidy to those families, which is what we have in the Voucher program, but currently those families can't find a unit in the city of Boston to rent a lot of the time, or they're just only able to find it in a couple very small poppies of the city, which is part of what we see driving segregation. And so that was really something I partnered with at 817, 819, beacon that I'm actually hoping becomes a model, and it's something I'm going to be IDP technical advisory on, is actually having a level that we peg to being Voucher eligible. So the market rents at these sites are just slightly above the maximum often for the Voucher holders. But by bringing them down here to that 100% AMI level, what's interesting is in some sense, what Mr. Flynn is doing is creating split 100 slash 30% in below AMI level units. Now this was an experiment. I think we could, you know, in the long run, do a lot more of this tranche because it lets the things pencil out better in the pro forma, but it also provides these families with who have a federal subsidy with a real housing opportunity in the city, which is something we've really struggled with. And not for nothing. Right now, a bunch of those families are using their vouchers in the 70% unit. So we actually are housing more willing come families in IDP units than people realize. But if they could use them in the 100% units, then that would also free up some more of that middle. So it is something I'm actively working on, Madam Chair, and I think that this project was an example of a really collaborative attempt to kind of start thinking this through more systematically. And I think the other question is that how many BHA residents moving from BHA developments to developments like this, so they and their kids become more fully integrated into a community? Yeah, that has to, I think, be our whole objective for the firmly furthering fair housing is to make that possible. And the biggest change the city made back in 2019 was we changed the voucher rules to small area fair market rents, which I'm sorry, I'm getting very in the weeds. But basically what it did was it let that maximum rent that a voucher could pay float with the zip codes average rent. And so what's nice about that is it actually opened a whole bunch of expensive zip codes in the city of Boston to BHA families for the first time. So I think the new work of the last few years is getting that word out and providing the support tools to help landlords know that they're obligated to rent to these families that you can't discriminate against a voucher holder in the state of Massachusetts. And then help voucher holders know that more of the city is accessible to them. And we've been seeing in the BHA data some modest gains in terms of seeing those families just burst more across the city. And I think there's a lot we could do though to be more proactive about it. And I do think that the AFFH zoning amendment, which most projects that applies to have not made its way to your board yet, because obviously they have to go through the BPDA process, the large projects, I think is going to help us start cracking that nut in a really serious way. And is there a new way of monitoring so that in fact there is no creaming? I think that's part of what we're staffing up the office of their housing and equity to do. So there's some additional staff and capacity there for some of that enforcement and compliance. And also on the BPDA side, actually also some more compliance capacity being added. Thank you. Thank you for your detail. Anybody else to speak and support our opposition? Thank you, minor, go ahead. We want to monitor members of the board of mine up for us for percent in the carbon-trust union. On behalf of hundreds of our members that live in a work process, we're going to support the priority. Thank you. Pam Beall, is your hand is raised ahead? Yes, thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and board members. My name is Pam Beall and my address is 642 Beacon Street. And I'm here today as a member of the IAG for this project to speak in support of these applications. Thank you. Thank you. Dolores, please. Thank you very much. My name is Dolores Bookdangan. I live at 442 Park Drive in Boston, Massachusetts. I also was a member of the IAG, I'm currently president of the IAG. I'm a member of the association. And I'm always happy to defer to Kenzie Bach. And I really appreciate all the work she's done on this project and in our city to help bring a balance to the housing needs of our residents and people who have left to live here. I'm here to speak in support of the project. I'll be brief. Skate King Boston with the intent to build privately operated dormitories. Amazingly, some of the city thought this was a good idea. But thankfully, the residents lived in the raising up of a ruckus that that idea was scrapped. And I would say now based on what I know, that is the large part to the efforts that skates people, Andrew Flynn, to listen to the neighborhood. So, Mrs. McDonnelly, I know you've been really involved in Audubon for decades now. But please tell us very quickly in your support and what it's based on. Well, our letter that we submitted to board outlines those reasons. I think, when it's again, a full agenda, I think everything that has been said, especially by the counselor, goes to speaks to our support. I will, unless you really want to hear why we supported, I think that's a good one. I'll let her go. Thank you for putting that in the record. Let's go ahead. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, the next one. Sure, say a leave. Go ahead. My folks, Madam Chairwoman, members of the board, I just want to express my support for this project. Mr. Flynn, as well as Skate, have been significantly helpful in accommodating some of our wishes. As a neighborhood association, also, my individual wishes was an honor to have 16-minus troops, the kind of many, including addressing things like loving dog, the massing of the building towards the back. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional ways to answer. Okay, given all that information, may I have a motion please? Only emotional goal for me to hear that, yeah. Okay, second, okay, let me go through the roll call. I'm fortunate. Aye. Alec? Aye. Dong? Aye. Michiro? Aye. Better? Aye. A round of those also in support, so it's been approved with design review. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, it's almost 11 o'clock right now. I'm going to call the 1030 airing training to Burles and withdrawals. Give me the address first please. This is the 1030 only. Burles and withdrawals. 49 are in re road and sister case 49 in re road. Thank you very much. Paul case BLA 129 680 49 are in re road. There is contained case BLA 129 638 129 in re job. Amen. Address of the record please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spencer Adams and Marancy, with a business address of 168 H Street unit one, self-rusting. We'd like to request an administrative deferral to be heard in front of a full seven member board. May I have a motion in a second please? Motion to defer. Second. Question? Aye. Oleg? Aye. John? Aye. Michiro? Aye. Better? Aye. A round of those also in support, the date please. Hold on Madam Chair, I'm trying to figure that out right now. Okay, better chair August 23rd is the next time we have a full number of board seven members. That be at 1130. One big thank you. And thank you for reminding. This is a six member board today. And for any approval, you need five members in support. So applicants can request a deferral and administrative deferral until there is a four seven member board. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals to the 1030 cases only given the address would? There ain't none Madam Chair. I'm going to go to the next case calling the OAA 1, 2, 7, 2, 8, 9, 0, 48 to 54 Walter Street. This is converting and existing warehouse to marijuana cultivation shop. The violation of that is 69, 6, 11. Canvas is Davon Hughes conditional. Damon Adams, full of records. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Kyle Smith of Catera Law, business address of 1, 8, 1, Wells Avenue in New Massachusetts. On the call of me as well, I do have the applicants, the project architect, and then the intended day to day manager for the facility. So please describe to us what's being proposed. Madam Chair, as you know from our violation letter, we're excited strictly for the conditional use of the cultivation facility. There's a pre-existing warehouse that exists on site. The applicants have not proposed to do any type of exterior, maybe just aesthetic renovations or changes, but any changing of the buildings, footprint, height, dimensions, or otherwise. So we have a pre-existing structure that we're looking to basically modify the interior to create a marijuana cultivation facility with no intended retail sale. So how many square feet is this facility? And what is the access? I'm just trying to figure out if residents will be impacted by delivery or other vehicles or the trucks more specifically. Yep, so the square footage of the current existing warehouse is approximately 26,000 square feet. With a lot of approximately 37,600 square feet, accessible via Walter Street, you know, with primary parking, delivery vehicles are otherwise to be housed and stored and being loaded and unloaded offsite, sorry, off street. Off street, okay. And how many vehicles do you anticipate being activated, trucks versus staffing? If potentially the applicants could apply in there? Yeah, so roughly we'll have about 40 employees and hopefully most of the employees, anywhere between 40 to 60 employees, and most of the employees should be from a community at high-parks, so we anticipate most of them to be the walking and community by bus or bicycle. So primarily we have enough parking for about 30 vehicles or more because the log is also on by the same owner to have multiple thousand other log out there behind the building. So if we need additional parking spaces, we have that available. And tell us about any trucks that you anticipate versus employee parking? So we anticipate about two events roughly a few times a week to do our industry some deliveries, schedule deliveries would be basically scheduled. Okay, and tell us what, so cultivation means grow and processing. How does, well, I guess the question is, well processing admit, admit any odor to other stuff into the air? Primarily we'll do our best to medicate the odor, but ideally what we're just planning doing is cultivate, drive the product, and send it out. Okay, so drawing will be okay. Let's see, how the plants must better? I'm sure the plants are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I hosted in a butter's meeting for this on our community meeting on April 19th. There were 48 people in attendance and during this meeting the applicants did receive support and opposition for the cultivation site. One of the concerns and topics of discussion did consist of security and safety as some residents did have questions pertaining to crime and if the marijuana on site could be a potential target for illegal activity or increased crime in the area. Our office has received letters of support and opposition which have been sent to the board for review. Some additional concerns consisted of congestion and density, the area, environmental concerns, resources, and energy drainage. The applicants received over 150 signatures of support from business owners, residents, and community leaders and stakeholders that highlighted how Boston would greatly benefit from supporting this proposal due to the positive long-term economic opportunities that can provide to high-parks most vulnerable residents, bringing some social equity to the cannabis industry. Several community leaders and residents spoke of how actively engaged the low key team of Ben with connecting to civic groups, organizations, and trying to participate in events and initiatives and support our community and as many ways as they can. Our office has received letters of support from elected officials, again, community stakeholders, a letter from the President of the High Park Central River neighborhood group and the High Park Neighborhood Association. At this time we'd like to defer to the board for judgment. Thank you. Good afternoon, Secretary Hays. Sorry about that. Let us do those letters. The May is office, folks. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Jordan, Freya's Councillor Ricardo Wartos office. We'd like to honor record the support of this. Thank you. I have a raise. Can you invite Martin? Senator Request, can you state your name and address for the record, please? This is Martin Evans. My office is 101 Federal Street, sweet 1900 in downtown Boston. I am a job in housing advocate in Metro Boston and I'm here to support low key based on their job and community support best practices and just a thank you. Thank you. Okay. A question of the applicant. Tell us how what your plan is to address the security and safety issues. Mark, are you on the spot? I have my chief security on this spot. I'll hopefully give answer to those questions. Thank you. Jeff, which marks last name? I'm on the right. Madam Chair, whether it turn to accommodate, we do have security plans that have been submitted to a review by the BCB. Though we have cameras in place that blank it basically the entire facility. But those have been obtained and scrutinized by BCB in their ultimate approval of this project with the corresponding HCA that's been signed. Okay, and environmentally any solar panels or anything like that to a million AP fights of this intensity? All right. We plan on using solar panels to subsidize the oil, or else using, you know, nitricks to get electricity on the site. Okay. Given all that information and VPDA, did you have a recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. We recommended approval. We could tell if there were going to be any exterior changes. If so, maybe we get them, but we're on record as being in support. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA review on exterior modifications. Okay. Okay. And is there a second? Oh, okay. Okay. Fortune. Aye. Alec. Aye. Dong. Aye. Rijiro. Or better? Aye. A round, Joe's also I. So the motion for approval with design for you carries. Good luck. I'm sorry. On the last case of 1030 calling the LA128, B9, 6752, 5272, 70 Washington Street. This is a change of art and storage to marijuana at the spencering, the violation of Article 8, Section 7. The use is conditional. David Adjus, Philip Reckon. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Kyle Smith. I'm a consultant to tarot law business address of 181 Wells Avenue in Newton, Massachusetts. We have the same team on the line as well for this matter with the addition of a separate proposed onsite manager. No questions? So, you know, take a couple minutes. Tell us how many square footage, how many square footage, what square footage of this lot? And tell us a little bit about hours of operation and things like that so we can understand this. What's happening here? Certainly. So I'll let the owner discuss for the applicant discuss the hours of operation, but as a kind of brief change from prior, this is intended to be a dispensary. They're calling this low key number two. These applicants have been before this board for the approval of low key dispensary location one. Located at 571 B Washington Street in Dorchester, which should become operational the third or fourth quarter of the years. They do have that prior experience and longevity of trying to bring another dispensary onsite or sorry, online. In contrast to 54 water, the intent here are the applicants are current owners of a parcel of land that exceeds about 69,000 square feet. They're existing tenants onsite so they do control the parcel. They have owned it since 2019. They have exclusive use arguably of parking to exist for the rear of the parcel that can accommodate approximately 20 to 30 spaces. And for which if there ends up being issues of parking in the future, they can work to expand the current facility. They have a lot of currently unutilized land in that approximately a year and a half. So this is intended for retail marijuana distribution in contrast to the prior matter, which is for cultivation. And the hours of operation. 10 to 9. All days of the week? Correct. We may not provide a UCB because I was. Okay, so because I'm assuming your catch material includes the data. Okay, how are the plans? It's a better. And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good morning, men of chair members of the board. Jake Lixie from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant went through a robust community process, including a community meeting with our office on April 25th of this year. And also with the West Varsbury neighborhood council on May 18th of this year. At the West Varsbury neighborhood council meeting, the Zoning Committee voted five, one in support of the project. We have received both letters of support and opposition for the project, most notably a letter of support from the West Varsbury Civic Improvement Association. I would also like to recognize the applicant's commitment to just being very available for the community and other civic groups. And at this time, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, secretary here, we do have those letters. May is office spoke of the opposition was three opposition letters. One was at the park right across the street of the Washington grave of failed. And they just opposed it to spent during the day. Thank you. Chair, I have no raised hands. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with the PDA design review. There's changes on the exterior. And this applicant don't like? Yes. Sir, second. Portune? Hi. Alex? All right. Doug? I. Rizero? I. Better? I. O'Rourke you also in support. So the motion with those two providers carries good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, it's now 1110. I'm going to call the recommendation that we heard last Thursday at 1010 Mass out. Following case BLA 128 660 399. I was still replacing existing roof deck. It was approved with the PDA to replace the head house with the hatch. HBLA 131 8143 11 monument street. The totally roofed deck is approved with the PDA. I'm familiar inside the deck. HBLA 132 27875 81. Voodle street. It was a body at a body at tattoo. It was approved. HBLA 134 3123 30k street. It's approved to 818 22 at 5pm. It's a continued community process. HBLA 1335134 158 West Conquered Street. It was constructed 3 by 3 by 11 by 9 and a preplough. It's approved with the PDA. HBLA 133590014 Blanch Street. It was the KK call from Syncleto 2 family. It was approved with BPDA on exterior changes. HBLA 134 0516 10000 street. It's constructed as a rare second story addition. It's the single family approved with BPDA, BPDA in exterior. HBLA 13348 4557 Ocean Street. Tonight without prejudice. HBLA 1336189 25 gochester avenue. It was approved with BPD18 5pm for outdated drawings. HBLA 13094465 Pond Street. It's constructed 2 story rare addition. The rare is God. It was approved with BPDA. HBLA 1324441465 Business Street. The first cut saw off the 5th to vehicles. It's approved. HBLA 134448081 87cm on Avenue will be prepared today. It's full board at 1130. HBLA 13281457 oil street. It was replaced with redacted. It was replaced with redhorns. It was approved with three with three proviso. The BPDA. Two was the existing driveway to eliminate Prangad Vaggi and three in a fair pet pee 10 feet. HBLA 13294 3227 Sherwood Street. Places free force to approve. HBLA 13212571980 Street. It was a renovation of addition to unit two. Existed two families. The pass code was approved with BPDA. HBLA 1319341 351. Go now screen with the lower addition. Redact was approved with BPDA. HBLA 13286588 Perlu Street. It was no extent living space into the basement of the Perlu. A trial of BPDA for a front run. Run, you have an entrance. Run, entrance and two to remain in one meal. That can prove to the subcommittee before. May I have a motion please? Motion to conterve other recommendations in subcommittee. May I have a second? Second. Fortune? Aye. Oleg? Aye. Dong? Aye. Grigiro? Aye. Better? Aye. A round you'll also in support. So motion carries. All the 1030 hearings. First case calling DLA 1349823340 Meridian Street. This is a change change the article from a three family quarreling to a four family quarreling who include a new basement unit, a interior innovation, existing building, and a new roof that violates. Data 5368. The basement unit is for then article 27T-5. This is the e-sposter and iPod. An article 5369 to use a local space. Amen. And that goes for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair. It was a poor attorney Jeff Trago with Trago in Tuscana with the business address of the Leather Beacon Street here and behalf of the applicant. And also I have Eric Zacherson, the architect. Just to point out this project was approved by this board on February 8th, 2022. The reason that we are back here is for some missing violations that were not advertised. When my client, this was already, but we haven't changed anything from that prior approval. When my client went to pull his building permit at some of this plants, it was found that ISD, by ISD, the three violations were missing. Let's go directly to that basement unit. Sure. So that was approved by Madam Chair. That was one of the violations that... So I'm sorry. If it wasn't cited, we weren't considering it. So let's talk about that basement unit. It was just so you know Madam Chair. It was in the description. It just wasn't cited as a violation. Yeah, let's talk about that basement unit. Sure. So it's substantially above grade. It is unit one, so via two bedroom, at 1220 square feet, to point out that it's existing living space now, current building. That unit has six bedrooms in it. So this building right now has 18 bedrooms and it's existing condition. We are changing this too. And it's completely empty right now. We are proposing to make four separate condos units out of the building. So again, talk to us about that basement unit. Sure. Just ceiling height because... So the floor to ceiling barriers are eight foot three to 11 feet. It has two means of egress. It has full windows for light and air. Four to sell 30 inches. I mentioned two means of egress. It's 1220 square feet. It's too bad and it's too bad. Okay. And let me... So it's a stand alone unit in the basement. It is... It's being proposed as a stand alone unit. Right now it's connected to the top floor. Okay. We just want to hear about that. Okay. That's a good point. How are the plans miss better? And I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah. Can we just see an elevation? So I can see Mr. Gringo said it was substantially well great. But like the... You can see Mr. Gringo. Yeah. Mr. Gringo, tell us which is the most appropriate plan to look at. So that plan and then the one in front of it as well will show the door in the back. It's a full walk out with stairs. Okay. Oh, it's actually a bug right there. Correct. Okay. And the utilities are separate. Correct. Okay. Is anybody here to... Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to either speak and support or an opposition of this proposal? Yes. Good morning. My name is Chair Members of the board and I'm sorry we need to start the mayor's office. I'm sorry. There's a... And a butter's meeting was hosted on September 2021. A butter's thought he was a good addition to the neighborhood. The applicant also met with the Eagle Hill Civic Association and received support on February of this year. The community was pleased that the fact that the facade was not changed and the characteristic of the house was maintained. So at this moment our office would like to defer to all judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we have one law position letter. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Mr. Drago, what was the... What was the provider that we had placed on the previous request? The most BPDA design review because we are restoring the complete exterior of the bill. Okay. And the DEQ was also previously approved. The exterior DEQ under the roof. That's correct. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with a design provisional BPDA design review. Is there a second? motion? Aye. I'll look. Aye. Mochiro? Better? Aye. A round of motion, a design review carries. Thank you. Following an X2 case, this is calling DLA13400078116, applicant and street, in any case, the building card, DLA13400083116, applicant and street, this is for 116. Add a new roof deck with hatched access, construct a new second level deck, and create a new yard. The violation is Article 64, Section 9, Comhouse, and rollout, extension to the Dorea yard. In Article 64, Section 34, root structure restriction, this is for building code, the 9th, Division 780, CMR, 1011, regarding 116 applicant and street, a new roof deck with hatched access, 1011.12.2 roof access, where a stairway is provided to a room access to that room, Shelby Pride, who had 10,000 combined with Section 1510.2, exception and building without an occupied room access to that room, Shelby permitted to be able to catch or to have go off, not plus 16 square feet in area, and having a minimum provision of two keys. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Cones, please switch your name and address on the record. And address the building card please. I can't see that I'm there yet. Yes, Evan Cones, Architect 38 Greenwich Park, Austin Nass. So can you address the building code request for the building code issue, which is that a full high head house essentially is required above a stair. And what we have provided in its place is a hatch, which lifts up and provides a full uninterrupted passage to the roof deck. Hold on a minute. May I have a motion please? Motion for approval for the building code. I second. Araza. Okay, fortune. Aye. Alec. Aye. Dong. Aye. Regiro. Aye. Better. Aye. Aroudjo also, aye. Motion carries. Mr. Cones, tell us that the, that the, the decks are bracket supported and talk to us about that roof deck. Well, the roof deck is really doesn't require a ZVA approval. It's the deck in the rear does in that we are proposing. It does because we have roof structure restrictions. So, we're not okay. Okay, so tell us quickly about that roof deck. The roof deck, the roof deck has been constructed or designed to fall within a distance that provides virtually no view of the railings from the street on Avalon Street or on the street and this Chandler Street in the rear. And it is approximately 20 feet long and 16 plus feet wide. Tell us that the rear decks are bracket supported and the dimensions of those rear decks. The rear deck is essentially 60 by 16 feet. It has a projection on the rear of it, complementing the A window. The, it's essentially supported on brackets on the rear wall. And it is accessed through a full door in the center of the bay. Okay, hold on a minute, then. Miss better, how are the plans? I'm sure the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support our own opposition? I guess. I'm going to have to do in Madam Chair and Members of the board. Can Chris Oly from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services? Our office held in a butters meeting on June 15th of 2022 where there is generally no opposition from a butters just concerned over landmarks review at this time our office first. Good morning, Madam Oly, Chair Members of the board. I'm Akal LeRon from Council President Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary, here we do have some letters of support. We also have a couple letters of opposition. Madam Chair, I have no questions. Mr. Fortune, what is the opposition based on? The deck, the back, the patient of public way. Okay. I didn't speak with someone from the Department of Public Administration. So they do normally require that they come to the meeting first. They got it. No, we got it. They want to go back. Got it. So Mr. Hampton? Thank you, Madam Chair. We recommended approval with the design review for the rear deck. The landmarks probably have their own review that they want to do for the roof. Thank you. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval with design proviso of PDA design review and landmarks. Sarah Second. Welcome. Question? Aye. Oly. Aye. Dawn. Aye. Regiro. Aye. Better. Aye. Around you also in support of motion carries. Thank you. Calling an X case. Calling a BLA 130 for 352. 136 West A3. The second buying vacant parcels and building new construction five family building. Violation. 25 section five flood hazard district article 68 section 33. Outsbury Parking loading is insufficient. Article 68 section 33. Outsbury Parking loading. Proper propose package parts are compact dimensions only. The violation of Article 68 section 8 FAR is excessive. Article 68 section 8 uses both spaces and sufficient. Article 68 section 8 front yards and sufficient. Article 68 section 8 side yards and sufficient. Article 68 section 8 Ray Eigens sufficient. And Article 68 section 8. The additional law in the area. Amen. Admit for the record. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Kyle Smith. I'm the president of the state law business address of 181. Welles Avenue in Newton. On the call, it may do have the proponent in applicant and the project architect. The tell us what's being proposed. So, Madam Chair, just to refresh your and the rest of the board's memory. We've been performing now. There will be the third time. We did the proponent was able to secure 138 West Aids Street. And we have been before you with original plans for a three family on 136 West Aids Street, which we are before you on today. If you recall, on 138 West Aids was a pre-existing single family that was encroaching onto this parcel. That encroachment was removed in part, but the larger building slightly encroached. And we did seek a planned subdivision for which this board proved. So we could slice off a small sliver from 136, provide it to 138 to remove the encroachment altogether. That was previously proved. Just before presenting before you for the approval for zone relief for the single family in its expansion at 138, the proponent was able to secure 134 West Aids Street for which we then sought to defer and then cancel the original plans for the proposed three family on 136. So we are before you today for a combined aggregate parcel of 134 and 136 West Aids Street to construct a four-story structure that is built slab on grade that provides for an ADA unit on the first floor for off-street parking spaces accessible via a garage and a pre-existing, but to be slightly relocated existing curb cut on the parcel with then three additional floors of housing above it consisting of additional four units. So this is a proposed five family dwelling. Tell us about the breakdown of the units. Sure. So Madam Chair on floor one have both parking essentially to the right of the structure as you're looking at it from one from West Eighth. We have an ADA accessible unit to the left side of the structure which is a proposed two bed two bath of approximately 980 or 990 square feet on floor two. We have two proposed two bed two baths of approximately 1100, sorry 1100 square feet and then on floor three and floor four we have duplex units which are approximately sorry four bed three bath with a flex kind of office bed space and they are approximately 1900 square feet. Any roof deck proposed? No, Madam Chair and I just wanted to point out that we have been active in communication with city side the relevant and very active neighborhood group here and we have been before them for we'll get all that information from the mayor's office. Is there any proposal for overhang over the sidewalk? Yes, Madam Chair, that has reflected right there on that screen. It is proposed for exterior sorry internal square footage for the respective units on floors two and three. How wide is that sidewalk because we're seeing more and more of this which ends up having an impact on the feeling of openness on narrow sidewalks. Chris if you are on can you plan on the width of the sidewalk in the depth of those bays? Yes, please. Sorry, sidewalk is six feet in depth. Madam Chair, Chris Bands, Bands Architects, 254 Bay Road, South Hamilton, Mass, the proposed projected bays are two feet in depth. Tell us about the parking is parking really all just for compacts? Yes, Madam Chair, as you can envision in this neighborhood a lot sizes are small most homes are built from parcel or a lot lined to a lot line so they are all proposed to be compact spaces. Our current ratio is for parking spaces to five units. The prior proposed two families. Sorry three family was two spaces for three so our rough percentage of ratio of parking is not increased. Okay, Madam Chair, Mr. Domingo is spoke on this I don't think he's online today. But I'd like to put his comments in for the record regarding 136 WSA Street. The parking is a little tight in his opinion you would recommend that we go to the space floor. I'm sorry that how many spaces? He would recommend the approval of space floor. Okay, okay. Okay, so let me see. So I just need to cut contacts because this feels like this isn't has been an incremental process. So I just need to know so 134 to 136 is being proposed as a five family. Tell us about 138 it's also in ownership of this developer, right? Uh, Madam Chair, it's technically owned by a separate legal entity but it is largely controlled by the same investor and owner group. And what is 138? A 138 was a pre-existing single family. There are also four expansion and maintenance as a single family that had been before this board before and approved in approximately August of 2021. Okay, so 138 stays as a single family, okay? Yes, Madam Chair. Okay, um, and how are the plans miss better? Madam Chair, the plan's your adequate. Any questions from the board? Yeah, um, this is a four-story structure. I'm looking at Google Maps and I don't see anything on the block that's more than either two or three stories. This would be as far as I can tell the only four-story structure. Is that correct? Yeah, I can't. I can't speak as to the depth or the longevity of the street but as far as our buildings and the media props, some of the yes, many of them are slightly built on a pedestal so the first story begins approximately, you know, three to four feet off of grade. So our structure is four stories built slab on grade so it is slightly higher by about a half-story. So what is the height of the building? I believe it is sub 40 feet, Chris, can you confirm? That is correct, it's 40 feet. And what is the height of the, uh, the tallest nearby building? I would say your structure to our immediate left that approximately 36 and a half and then we also control one, three, eight. Do you know the height of that, Chris? Uh, one, three, eight. Yes. Yes, that was at, I believe, of 38 feet. Okay, uh, I don't believe we surveyed the, um, one 32 to the peak. Well, I mean, if you just look at the neighboring buildings up and down the block, they're all none of them are four-story. Okay, um, is let me just get to us the monies. Anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good morning, Marangol Picham, I'm myself Deboi. I'm a program panel. Sorry about that. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wayabit, the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Owen Allison hadn't a butters meeting for 134, 136 West A3 and June 9th, which was attended by direct of others. So, part was expressed for this project, and what, what, what support was received and sent into the board at this time of late to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Good morning, Marangol Picham, members of the board. I'm a calderon from council president Flings office. The councilor would like to call on recording support, with the master community process and could say compromises with neighbors and the civic group regarding the road tax and increasing parking as much as possible. We respectfully request the BDAD sign review and I started to continue to work closely with the neighbors doing the construction base. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have three letters of support. Madam Chair, I have no resistance. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. We are actually on the record. Recommending to Nile without prejudice. The proposal is just because of the parking and the number of units is excessive. Actually, back in 2021, we recommended approval of the three family. So, we like the three, we hate the five. Just for some sort of reference, the allowable height within almost all the self-boss of its 40 feet. So, I understand your concern that could be dealt with perhaps through design review, but they are within zoning height, but we are on record recommending to Nile without prejudice. The other question, Mr. Hampton, this is within a flood hazard district. Does that mean that that ADA apartment would be subject to flooding then? It would be something that we would definitely have to take a look at, yes, Madam Chair. Okay. So, given all that information and may I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I would like to say that the zoning is a multi-family resident zoning. I would like to prefer a proposal of approval with two pro-vizel. One is BPDA design review, paying special attention to that four-story setback to try to resolve some of the marks kind of comment in terms of the typology that exists on the site. And then the other would be BPDA design review to accommodate only, I believe, the three parking spaces and a minimum curb cut of 10 feet. Three parking and 10 feet curb cut. And we need to also, I think, misbetter put on the record that we are not providing approval of any construction in the flood hazard district. That would be impacted by the flood hazard district. Correct. Okay. Is there a second? Yeah, I'll second that. Okay. I'm just need to make sure. Okay. Fortune. Hi. Oh, Nick. Hi. Dong. Hi. Rijiro. I'm opposed. Better. Hi. A rouges also pose. So motion does not carry. It's been denied. And Madam Chair, that too good from that we would deny without prejudice, correct? No, when motion like this does not carry, it's been denied, basically not to see a five-family five-story building, four-story building. Okay. Any other members have any, but they were like no, it's been denied. Tom, this is the board's operating procedure for years now, for decades. So it has been denied. Okay. Madam, the next case, please. Calling the next case. Calling BLA. One, two, nine, nine, three, seven, five, fifteen, Baywood Street. This is changed the auction from the three families who are formally adding a new breast here, violation of Article 5629. It's insufficient, additional law to area per unit. Article 5629 excessive FAR. Article 5626, four units, do additional. Article 5629, the maximum, maximum, maybe, has been exceeded. Article 5629, the number of allowed stories has exceeded. And Article 5643, R3-5, e-loading, and even add death for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of Board, tiny Jeff Traeger with Dre Owen, Disconto with the business address of 11th Beacon Street, here and behalf of the applicants, Joni and Emma Seahood, and we have Eric Zacherson from Context as the architect. As I was mentioning, we're proposing a change to the occupancy from a three-family dwelling that was approved back in March 26, 2019 by the board, to a four-family dwelling with six parking spaces. This building will remain the same size and structure. We were approved in the past for a by-level unit on the top floor with five bedrooms. This is going to become opposing for the Peacomacondo building for sale. We felt it was better to have a four-unit building. The layout of this building will now be slab on gray so that we know a basement living space. Unit 1 is a three-bedroom two-half unit two is a three-bedroom two-bath unit three is a three-bedroom two-bath and then the fourth floor unit that we're proposing to separate from the third floor that was approved as a one-bedroom, one-bath unit. Can I just tell us about the average score, but did you follow those three bedrooms? Sure. So the average score for the town chairs 17, 1150 per unit and then the top floors but a thousand square feet. Okay, so and this is for policy, is it already constructed? So it was the structure was built, the exterior, the walls, but the interior has not been completed yet and the other chain was erratic, egress stair to the back of the building. And this is a three of four thousand district what's the square foot of the lot? The lot square footage is four thousand eight hundred fifty-five square feet and just a point out matter chair actually losing one bedroom by this change. So the previous proposal was 11 we're now at 10 bedrooms total. Okay and tell us about the parking, how is the parking going to be accounted? So there is a private with easement access it's 20 feet wide and so that would be a few. Maywood Terrace which we have easing right so it would go right through the back through and then come around a curb cut in the rear. So nothing would go through the front a lot. We can through the side there is a parking plan if you go a little bit further down right there. Yep and so along with terraces there would be a curb cut for the six spaces for them our full size of two of them are compact spaces and we still have an area of green at the back. Okay um how the plans was better? I don't care the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes good morning Madam Chair members of the board. My name is Kisha Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time we're deferring to the board for judgment. The applicants met with my posu and nice street civic association and they were asked to remove the rear dex and add a gate to the top which was done and there has been community support in this project at this time we would like to defer judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair have no raised hands. May I have a motion please? Madam Chair I'd like to put a motion of approval. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any other motion? We have a new name. Oh I'm sorry. God I'm in an automatic mode here. Your motion? Aye. Early? Aye. Don? Aye. Rosero? Aye. Heather? Aye. Aroung is also I's a motion for approval carries. Thank you Madam Chair. Good luck. Following the next two cases, following the LA 133049 10 Woodford Street. Companding case B.O.A. 13304 3134 Woodford Street. This is for 10 Woodford directly new four-story residential building with four dwelling units and roof deck on existing vacant lots. By at least Article 50 section 29 I'm sorry section 28. I mean multi-family dwelling units within Article 50 section 29 in a lot of areas in sufficient Article 50 section 29. A lot with this in sufficient Article 29. While frontage is in sufficient Article 56. 29. One of the areas she was excessive Article 56. You know, building a excessive Article 56. You know, the building height number of stories is excessive. Article 56. 29. The usual open spaces in sufficient Article 56. You know, the right yard is sufficient Article 56. 29. The really out it's efficient Article 56. 29th and the radiators in sufficient and Article 50 Section of Party 3, Ours, Republican is in sufficient. This is for 34 Woodford Street. This is also to erect a poor story residential building with poor dwelling units and the economic system taken live. And Madam Chair of the violation of our identical if I won't be the minute to the record. Name and address to the record. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mr. Dragou, one minute, I will be re-cusing myself in this matter. Okay, so this brings us to a five-member board. For approval, you need all members in support. You may take an administrative deferral if you so choose or you may go ahead. Madam Chair, I think we'll take the deferral, administrative deferral, just to point out for timing. I do know that I believe Mr. Regiro and member Leagras will always recuse himself for this applicant. I'm not sure if there's a time when maybe one is not there that we could have at least a six-member board I would go forward. Okay, may I have a motion for deferral? Motion to defer. Okay, second. Fortune. Aye. Mullick. All right. Donk. Aye. Better? Aye. Arouge is also I, some motion for deferral on both cases carries the date. So it'll be September 13th at 1130. Okay, thank you very much. Following the next case, following the OAA. 134-688-110-SOIR Avenue. This is a renovation kitchen bed, install a brickless system, the bioheter, the new roof deck, the bioheter, the Article 65, Section 9, preliminary ratio of the excessive, Article 65, Section 9, the building head, assessment, stories, and Article 65, Section 9. Side United, insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Harold, is that you? Who's the applicant? Who's representing the applicant? Please put your name and address on the record. Any other sentence or request on to you? Okay, yep, is that correct? All right. Go ahead Harold. Okay, we're taking an existing three family, sent back condition, renovating the property. It has debts in the back, the floor plans are tight, and so we're gonna use some of that deck space as extended living space there. There'll be... So I'm trying to figure out what treated this, this review by this board, is that because of the roof deck, or what's triggering this review? I think you have FAR, side yard front yard, you have a whole gamut of zoning violations there. Okay, are you proposing extension to the basement? No, basically the basement will be storage base for the three units above. And the side yard insufficiency is an existing side yard insufficiency, are you proposing anything? No, it's an existing side yard condition. Okay, and tell us about the breakdown of the units. Okay, so basically the first floor is gonna have three bedroom unit. What we're trying to do is open it up a little bit more versus the old three-bed, you know, standing the lay out there, so you have a mask of that room, like dying room, living room, and you have two baths, they have a kitchen, and then you have a smaller deck that's on the back there. That's unit one. Unit number two is also the same piece there, three bedrooms there. The third unit, three bedrooms, again, on the top floor. The only thing we have is a roof deck that's on the top, which has great views of the city of Boston there. It will be a hatch open. I would want to add deck that's there. Tell us about the dimensions of the deck. The mentions of the deck on the roof there. Yep. Okay, the mentions on the roof would be 15 by, 15 by 20. And is it accessible to all units, or just to cut units? Yeah. All units. Okay. How are the plans, Ms. Banner? Better chair, the plans are adequate. Any questions from the board? And Mr. Raymond, this is already, has been a three family dwelling for, as far as the building jacket is concerned. Yes. Okay. Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition? And the floor is open. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, to meet the Santos from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record in state that the applicant will direct the butters back in May of 2022, as well as the Jonesville neighborhood association. They do have direct the butters support at this time we would like to defer any judgments to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no waste hands. Okay, given that information may have a motion, please. I'd like to before a motion of approval. Sir. Second. Okay, our fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Long. Aye. Bershiro. Aye. Better. Aye. A round of those all in support, some motion for approval. Piers. Following an ex case, calling the 08129169661 Lintero Street. This is the bill of the new two family, the violation of Article 65, Section 32. This is the neighborhood overlay district, Article 65, Section 8. Use and regulations, Article 65, Section 9. The fluvia ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9. The bill has excessive stories. Article 65, Section 9. The bill has excessive feet. And I have a 65, Section 9. And really, is insufficient. Even at just for the record, please. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Porton, members of the board, Attorney Joseph Beacher. I've driven around the entire neighborhood against the Vietnam Internet, but it was not successful. So I'm coming in once again by following Joseph Beacher, law firm of Dane Tawpe 175 Federal Street, Suite 1500 Boston. I represent the applicants who were this property at 61 Linteres. Madam Ambassador, I would like to you to have as participants, Mr. Fitzgerald, Joseph Barry, and Lucien McPherson, the two owners that you would. Members of the board, this is a proposal that originally had been presented as a three family some time ago. The applicant has gone to extensive neighborhood and a butter discussion. They've met with the Melville Park neighborhood association on several occasions. And they have come to alignment and agreement by many of the or most of the butters commended the adjacent to this project. It is now a two family. I will, the unit sizes are 1,766 square feet. And if you would, I would then have the architect, Chris Drew, take you through the project directly. Thank you, Joe. So just to go through our violations real quick, we are excited to be used, which is the two family one family zone. The FAR has allowed us point five and we're at about 0.6. The height and stories, this is part of our community process. One thing that we did with this building was we lifted up the first floor, pretty much sure aligned with the existing building, buildings along the street, which go up about four or five steps to the first floor itself. So in doing that, of course, it created the height and the height violation in the stories is because, you know, we are a little more than half, more than half of the second floor area below. As far as the rear yard set back, this is something else that we have worked out with the community. We originally had this building set forward about 40 closer to the street in its met mortal. But one of the direct supporters was that we pushed this building back about 40 to have that continuity along the street. And doing that, the actual building itself is at about 41.5 step back and you required this 40. But the dog house bulkhead and the death is actually about 30 ticks. So that's where the rear yard violation creation is. So the building itself is much better than that. Tell us about the rear yard insufficiency. Yes, so they require it. Yeah, go ahead. The required is 40. The building itself is set back 41.5 feet from the property line. But what it is is the two bulkheads, the rear depth is about 30, 60, basically, from the back property line. OK. And parking is proposed in the rear yard? Yes, we have two two upstream parking spaces at the back, at the right side of the property. And I, with these three bedrooms at 1766 or two beds. They have three bedrooms and two and half bath units. OK. How are the plans, Ms. Better? I'm chair of the plan to act when any questions from the board. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and the Services. The sound and the exhausts, the deferred judgment to the board are also associated with the buttons meeting on March 21st. Butters were present and express orders regarding paving and potential lack of green space as well as setback violations. Our office received six letters of support that were contingent upon the property moving four feet forward from the rear line. I would that refer to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have a few letters of support in one opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Salden, to the Councilor of Life, Michael Fliery, and the Councilor to go on amendments to the workings. Sure, I'll see. And Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands here. I'll start with Kim. Go ahead, Kim. Can you continue tuning in for the record group? Yes, sure. Absolutely. It's Kim Desens. I live at 52 Lintar Street. Can you hear me well? Yes, please go ahead. Wonderful. My only concerns here are I want to make sure that the front of the building is just in line with the other houses in the neighborhood. I believe that was the letter I signed saying that I supported moving the back just so the front of the line is in line with the other houses on the street. My other concern is just this is still a very large building. So I know, I mean, I would appreciate it was smaller, but those are just my two. My two piece of feedback. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Good. Sorry, I do have another raised hand here. I'm Kim. Go ahead. Oh, I just did. I'll lower my hand. I know that I apologize. Do we have to hear from you? We have to lower a gy. We're looking to give testimony here. Can you state your name and address? Over. Please. Now, speaking to me. Yes, my name is sort of Damanuela, and I'm a director of the body to the property, a 65-minute-year street. I have two questions. One of them has to do with the excessive height. It is, we have a concern that it's very large in the glass. So Ms. Manuela, we just need to know at this point, because we suspect that through the community process, a lot of this has been discussed. Can you tell us if you're in support or in opposition? I'm going to go ahead. Go ahead. OK, thank you. Madam Chair, I have no additional reasons. OK, given all that information, let's get BPD on the racket. I actually had my hand raised. I'm sorry, I think you missed my hand. And I am in support of what Kim mentioned earlier. About that. Address for the racket, please. My name is Janice 69-Minhurst, and I am in agreement with Kim. And about the size of the building. OK, thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board, we're recommending approval with design review. We want to maximize the most usable open space, and make sure that the paving is pervise. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD design review paying special attention to the parking lot in order to maximize open space. OK, is there a second? Second. Fortune. Aye. Alec. Aye. Dom. Aye. Rizero. Aye. Better. Aye. Around you is also I, so the motion for approval, but design review carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Good luck. On the last case, we're 1030, calling the DOA 132689324 Plano Street. Mr. Addy Dormer, an author, issued to the existing third floor walkup, changed our family to a three family. The violation of Article 67, Section 8, three family, and the Pavin News, and a two F5,000 sub-district, and Article 67, Section 9, and the build height of the accessible stories. They have an address for the record, please. On the L Street. I have to run for this here. OK, I do have a hand raised here. Heather, are you here for this case? All right. I'm so sorry. I was trying to unmute. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Heather Robinson. I am the owner of 324 Cornel Street in Rosenthal, and I'm looking forward to two violations. One is it's currently a two family, and I'm looking to convert it to a three family, and the height requirement. I'm adding an additional story. OK, so a couple of questions. This is a two family district. You have to rationalize why this should become a three family, because most of the buildings adjacent to you are two family. And that's not a problem. And so tell us why there's a need for a three family here. It's already actually. It's already a second and third floor, and the floor is already 270 square feet of finished space and then storage. So what I was looking to do was to convert it to a three family for a few reasons. One is for additional availability for housing. And then two is just to clean up, it'll allow me to actually clean up the whole building, just the exterior of the building, the backyard, and the garage area. OK, so give us more information about the proposed third unit. I'm assuming it's the family square feet is proposed to be. So it's a 1,050 square feet. It's going to be an open concept with a kitchen, living and dining, and then there's two bedrooms in one bath. So the stairs, it already, the stairway from the second to third floor already exists. The front separate entrance already exists. So I would be adding probably an additional 700 square feet. OK, and tell us about the floor to ceiling height. So floor to ceiling is equal with the third floor. And so you're proposing through the dorm? Yes, yes. So I don't think I'm changing the overall height what I'm doing is expanding. I think the picture of it is exactly where it'll stay. It's just the expansion from the dormers. OK, and do you have a street parking? Yes. So where I'm located on Cornell Street is actually my backyard is Havana Street. And so it's a private entrance with a driveway and a two car garage. So currently I have two car garage parking, but I have, I mean, three to four additional spaces. But I don't want to make it a tarp, what I'd like to do is have green space and parking. OK, how are the plans much better? Better chair, the plans are adequate. I just want clarification that you're not altering the roof. The existing roof at all. So because an A5, A5 building section, A5 almost seems like you are altering the roof, so I just want clarification. OK, oh, I see what you mean. You know what? I don't know 100% I'll have to ask my architect. My understanding was that in the center of the high, the highest point of the pitch was we were just going to extend out in dorm room. But I see what you're saying on the plans now. Yes, so because of your violation, it's a excessive height. So imagine that you are altering the height of the building. OK. Do you know what your new height is? I know that the first, second, and third floor is 27.6 feet high. I don't know that I'm more high than on the plans. I'm looking at the plans now. I think we need, I think we need a drawing. That's right. This is long, can you hear me? Is that it? Yes. This is a high violation of the stories. I'm hurting the attic. And the story of the building. Thanks. Well, no, no, each of the misbetter is correct. The proposed pitch has changed. But we don't know, I guess, by how many feet. But let's go on. Is there any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Not the new ladder channel to support. I'm in the spiritual coaching. I'm the Ross Nilee, and we hosted in a better ceiling for this project on June 8th. One of the betters had concerns over allowing the two family and three families, and some had issues with density and how they affect their property. But this could have been, this could be solved with the fence that was brought up to the area of the fence. And Heather's team did reach out to their closest neighbors association that we'd received no letters to support or opposition for this project. And we'd like to defer to the board. Madam, try and have no raise hands. Madam, Chair Secretary, and we do have that one letter of opposition. May is office vote, though. Some master's be one raised here. Just popped up one second. A door. Door. Can you get an eye over the record please? All right. 324 now. I'm a direct sub-butter. I have some reservations in terms of the switching from the two to three family, given the overall makeup of the neighborhood and the sliding. You know, the future, what this might pretend for the neighborhood. So that is my biggest reservation. I was not able to attend the initial letters soon meeting and based off conversations I've had. It seems like folks have a lot of reservations just in the overall plan and scope. So my biggest reservation for the board to consider is this going from the two. OK. And as I had mentioned before, I'm not a direct above it, but I do travel that street a lot. And it is for the most part pretty much one on one side and two on the other side. So this would move it in a new direction. Anyway, given all the information we've had, can I have a motion please? I like to before a motion for the applicant to defer to provide just adequate drawings in regards to existing and proposed height of the building. I'm missing better. Isn't the violation that cited height excessive in terms of stories as opposed to height? It's as excessive. The what I have. It is stories. It says so it doesn't really matter what the height of the roof. What I what I have here is it says articles 67 section nine building height excessive building high excessive stories. That's what I have. Right. So that my point. My point is that it doesn't really matter what the height is. That's case gets on its own violation. Well, it is. It is. It is. It's on it violation. It's on it specify. Building high excessive and feed if it was. Yeah. Yeah. I have a document from you that says building height excessive with parentheses stories. Right. That's because that's because it's they're going and they're building an additional story. It's the equivalent with the dormers and with the change in height of this bear. It's equivalent to adding a story. Right. So all I'm saying is that whatever the roof raising is in terms of photo 2000 matter because that's not the violation. But the applicant was the applicant is not confirmed whether the roof was being lifted. So I don't have enough information. Correct. In front of me and we've seen that there's been errors in the past in terms of what's been earmarked. Yeah. I just need to assume if the applicant cannot confirm that the roof is not being lifted, then I need additional information. So the plan suggests that the roof is being lifted which will result in the equivalent of the additional story and the uses for the. So the question is do you want to defer this or should we part the bulk of the merit? We've got a merits of the case and we've heard the testimony. You know, should we dispose of this today? I think that's the question for us. So I'm open to a motion. I'd like to before a motion to defer for the applicant to defer. Okay. There is no second. May I have another motion, please? I'm going to make a motion for approval with the PDA design review with particular attention to the. The roof. The whole roof line. And just to reiterate, we are not granting any relief for a high variance in fee. Correct. If they give the foot requirement, they would have to come back. Yeah. And then this approval also suggests that it's a change of use from a two to a three. Yes. Okay. So there's a motion. Is there a second? I'll second that. Action. I. Alec. I. Don. I. Rosero. I. Better. Close. I. I. I'll just also in opposition because of the change of use from a two to a three family. So motion is denied. Okay. It is now a 12 10. I. If we do that, I just call it. I can't remember if I call the redistation 30 to a girl. Oh, no, please. Yes. Let's go ahead. So I'm going to call the redistations for 1130. Are there any to girls who would borrow 1130 only to give you the address first, please? And just to follow up and Mr. Portions request, this is today as six member board. And for any applicant, you need five members in support for your project to carry. So there is an opportunity to request an administrative deferral. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for the rediscussions for 1130 to give you the address first, please? Mr. Fortune, floor chair, key street, mission held for the wrecking calling the OA128-9454, floor chair, key street, name and address for the wrecking place. Attorney John Pogini, 10th floor, and the green tree on behalf of the applicant. We've been requesting an administrative deferral. We have a motion, please. Like a motion for the deferral? Second. Fortune. Aye. Arlead. Mr. Arlead? Immuted. I'm sorry. I am muted. I'm sorry. Okay. Okay. Don. I. Rujiro. I. Rujiro. I. Rujiro. I. Rujiro, also in support. The date, please. You have a date of August 23rd at 1130. Mr. Fortune, can we have a push that back another few weeks? Sure. We can give you a 927. That's a lot of authority. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 1130 rediscussions? All right. I'm going to call the 12th floor. Thank you. Re-discussion? Sim. Sorry. Not the rediscussion. Right. It's a reconsideration. Mr. Anybody on for 8284 Boston Street? Yes, Mr. Fortune, Attorney Ryan Spitz from Adams and Marancie. Thank you. Name an Avtony column for the Rector calling VLA. 117-799122-8284 Boston Street, name and address of the record please. Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adams and Marancie, with the business address of Rinses. I'm arancing with the business address of Mint 6, the H Street Unit 1, South Boston. We're here to request an administrative deferral. Hey, may I have a motion, please? Make a motion for the deferral. Thank you. Fortune. Aye. Oleg. Aye. Dong. Aye. Grigiro. Aye. Better. Aye. Rojo also in support. The date, please. Now, the August 23rd at 11, at 12 o'clock. Great. Thank you very much. OK, so given that, the board will take a break and will reconvene at 12.30. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.