 This is the meeting. The City of Boston zoning board of repeal subcommittee hearing. For February 10th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the of the open meeting law, including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19. The state of emergency that was signed by governor Baker on June 16th 2021. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings that adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1st 2022. The virtual hearing is being recorded via WebEx. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston dot go. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout and unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise your hand icon in the application via the WebEx platform. To raise your hand, click the participant information icon from there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click that icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star three to raise your hand. Those called upon to be comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know. I will call on you at the appropriate time. Once you have put your comments on the record, please lower your hands immediately. So let me take a quick roll call, Mr. Fortune. Good evening, Madam Chair. Good evening, Mr. Robinson. Good evening. Just a note to all people on this on this meeting when we meet again on Tuesday and should any of you be on that meeting, there will be new instructions as we will be converting to the zoom platform. Okay, Mr. Fortune, please go ahead. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. Are there any cases that agreed to defer to withdrawn? Hearing none, I will go right to the first case calling B.O.A.128. 350143, Grampian way. This is a constructing new rare. Rare in addition to the existing two family. The violations, Article 65, Section 32. This is in the neighborhood design overlay district. Article 65, Section 9, the 40 are issues excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 65, Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Maybe they address for the record, please. Good evening, Madam Chair. I'm the board on James Christopher, one of the principles of RCA. Here tonight on behalf of Council Frank Baker. The proposal before you tonight is to construct a rare addition. The addition will be approximate. The addition will be approximately 15 feet at grade by the width of the building, which is about 38 feet. Three stories lab on gray. The intent is to construct a family room and remove the existing decks, create interior access to the second level, which is the council's residents. The new mudroom of grade. And then rework the upper level to create three new bedrooms. And new outdoor decks. We held an advantage meeting the project is more received by Frank neighbors. And the primary and zoning violations are. Mr. Christopher, this is a three story edition then. I'm going to. Okay, so on. Tell us on the first floor and the second floor I'm assuming. Are those the family rooms? So yes, Madam Chair, the first floor. It will be creating a mudroom of the driveway, which is the primary access. So as you come down the driveway, you enter into the mudroom there and then there'll be. And so for you to use in this Exteria two wood parabes, we'll have. Exercise up. On the next level of the artwork will be some common котором. The admin level with a sliding door. Mr. Robinson. Plans are good. No questions. It backs up to the top of the hill and it's a park. I don't see any issue with this. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Yes. Good evening. Madam Chair. Members of the board. George win with the mayor's office and if it services. Our office held in the butters meeting for the proposal on November 15th of last year. The applicant addressed concerns regarding. How the drainage and foundation would be affected by the construction. And the rear addition would primarily allow the applicant to access the basement more readily. So at this time our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Okay. Mr. Secretary, anything in the record? No matter. We do not have anything. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. Straight up. Okay. I think so. I think it's fairly diminutive. It's not. It's a fairly simple addition. I think it's. It's right. Okay. I too am in support. So the motion carries. Good luck. Building an X case calling B O A 12850823332. Deponset Avenue. This is confirmed. The one family construct a rear attached garage. The violation is Article 65 section nine. The fluidae ratio is excessive. Article 65 section nine. The side yard is insufficient. An article 65 section nine that we are yet is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good evening, Madam Chairman. It's the bullet James Christopher again. I see a business address 1156. The draft. I'll hear tonight on behalf of Greg Dunham. He's the owner of 3333. Deponset Ab. It's a single family home. The proposal before you with to construct a rear attached garage. And which will create a new. Extended both extended living space of we're going to. Conclusion exists in Greece even for. Contract the garage and reorganize the first full of plans. We held an abundance meeting, the project is brought to you by the Nick Vision. Mr. Christopher, I'm having a hard time. Tell us which plans we should get to, which page we should get to. I'll have to keep going. Scroll down. If you go to the aid drawings, those are the proposed drawings. There we go. So it's a two car garage. Correct. How's the access proposed to work? You scroll to the site. You can see that there is an existing curb cut. And the owner currently parks in the rear of the property. So through the existing curb cut and driveway, we'll be able to access the rear of the property. And then from the garage on site, there's enough room to conduct a three point turn and drive down the driveway to get out without having to back out. And what's the whiff effect driveway? Out of narrowest, it's 7.8 feet. Now it's 7.8 feet and what's required? Well, it's usually the stand is 10 or 8 feet, but this is the existing condition of the house exists now. And he currently parks there. He and his wife. So it's functioned and we don't anticipate it being an additional future. Okay, then please go through the violations. I'm interested in the side and yard. What's what's required and what's the. The rear of the property is 20 feet. And we'll be at 3 feet. And then the side yard set back. The required is 10 feet. It's existing at 5.2 feet and we will be at 3.1 feet. Okay, and tell us about the distance because this is awful close to the rear yard line and could impact the rear of the water if it's only 3 feet. Can you tell us what's the distance between the edge of this proposed garage and the edge of any building on the rear of the property. There is not a building directly behind the madam chair. I don't have that information right away available. So I don't want to speak on it, but we would be 3 feet from the property line. When we met with the neighbors, the really are not that we're not concerned. Or with the city group. So we we. So I understand that, but you need to explain that to us because you know, if I just look at these violations. It looks like, you know, it's pretty much entire lot coverage. If you only have side and rear yards of 3 feet. And the space behind the house in the front of the garage. So they required minimum usable open space for this lot is 750. And we have 2,000, 22 square feet. And are you proposing a deck over the garage. There's a porch on the side of the house, not in here, but no deck over. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? Plans are good. I too am a little bit worried about that rear yard. It feels like it's fairly tight. I actually know this location pretty well. So I don't necessarily have too much of a worry about the access past house, because it's true. They do park there. I've seen that before, but I am a little bit worried about the tightness on the rear. I guess there is there anything that you can do to tighten that up, Mr Christopher. I mean, we can certainly increase that a little bit, Mr Robinson. I think my client would be a medical for that. One of the major precipices for this garage is at the bottom by fighter. He does contracting on the side. So we're looking to get him. And as a result of the new park and the location of the baseball field is. Vehicles have been hit a few times to be parked in front of the house on. On the pons and out. And so this is one of the precipices to try to get those vehicles in and off the street. But you know, there is a little bit of room. I think Mr Robinson to work on that to squeeze that a little bit. And so we're looking to get the vehicle in place. So I think we can go back to the board. See if we can get the way that I would be. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, I'm Adam chair members of the board. Our office held in the butter. Sorry, George went with mayor's office, neighbor services. Our office held in the butter's meeting for the proposal on October 20th of last year. And so we're looking at the office and the office. And so we're looking at the office. At the Pope's Hill neighborhood association where they received no concerns. Another time our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to check. I have no way. Okay. Given that information may I have a motion, please? I think it's going to be a good idea to approve. In looking at some of the dimensions, I think it would be. Well, I'd like to approve it with a five foot rear yard setback minimum. It's four on one side and three and some change on the other. And some of the angles are a little bit. So I think if we can have a minimum five yard setback. On the rear, I think that would be acceptable. And does that include design review? I think that would be good to make sure we have some soft scape there as well. So I would agree with you, Mr Robinson. Thank you. So that's a second item in support with those providers. So you're all set. Good luck. Call your next case calling VOA 128167718. Press Quad Street. This is a change of art from a single to a single. To a two family dwelling and legalize the two family dwelling and extension of living space to the attic. The violation is article 69 section 29, Austrian parking and loading. Article 69 section eight of two family dwelling use has been bitten. Article 69 section nine, the foot area ratio is excessive. An article 69 section nine, the bill has excessive in stories. An article 69 section nine, the usual space is insufficient. Maybe that just for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Fitzroy Brown at 18 Prescott Prescott Street and High Park Mass. The proposal before you as you say legalize and exist in one family to a to a two family. No work is being done physically on the property. All the work was done by the previous owner. I'm in the process of trying to legalize the work that was done into basically converted to a two family. Okay, so let us ask you a couple of questions. So we have a level of comfort with this. Sure. So tell us about the unit sizes of each unit. Okay, so so the first floor is about. 1100 square feet, two bedrooms and living room kitchen. And the thought to floors. Like another 2000 square feet in a living space. Including the attic. So the two second second unit is 2000 square feet. Is there any occupancy in the basement? No occupancy. No occupancy in basement and not intended to decide. Okay, because we're not we don't look kindly at basement occupancy. Tell us about parking. So, so I have I have a street parking in terms of. Four outside parking and one one garage parking. So this I don't I didn't think parking was an issue. I can. I submitted I submitted the parking layout. In some amounts and documents to the. So, I have a parking. It's a parking. Is it. It is cited as a violation. So just need to understand that and tell us which. Drawing we should be looking at. To look at to see where the parking is. Okay, so the drawing should is labeled. Zoning code refusal dash parking. So PDF file. Mr Robinson, can you help us? It's the second. So, the second. So the second. The last. The same. Madam Ambassador, keep going to the toward the there you go. There's the site plan. So. You can see the existing drive in the parking in the rear. It's not laid out per se, but. That seems to be the existing condition. Right. So I did submit a picture of the park cars in the garage and the back of the back of the house. So was that not part of my submission? So let's. So while we have this drawing up. Yes. Let's how the parking will work on your property, not on the passageway, but on your property. That's correct. So we have a 50 foot long. 20 feet wide passageway. You come to the back. You see what says 100. Yeah. 100. That zero zero feet. The parking. The parking starts from that fence right there all the way back towards the back of the property. So you can see the parking. Okay. So it's not a front yard. Okay. Not before you add it all. Okay. So the cars park. So you come up the passage and basically turn left and you park against and then into the garage for the one. Or outside parking and one inside the garage to make five. Okay. And in the attic. What's the floor to ceiling height? Yeah. Eight nine feet. But it's. You have slanted. You have a slant. A slant towards some area of the space. Okay. Yeah. The. The roof comes down pretty steep. There is a section. It's eight foot three in the middle clear and it does go down to fairly low. But I think in terms of. What I'm looking at in terms of the proposed scope. Okay. Okay. Okay. And this is owner occupied. Mr Brown. Yes. I occupied. Okay. Is. Anybody here to speak and support this proposal? It's better than chair members of the board. Connor new moon with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor is off. It's like to defer to the board's judgment. Some background information on the community process. Oh, and as held in a butters meeting on August 5th. I have a. No butters were in attendance. Sense then our office has not received any concerns. Any letters of supporter opposition. Thank you. I have no way. Can. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I two I'm in support, so you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. In the next case, calling the OA127289520ELEMETA road. This is constructed three foot by 12 foot deck attached to an existing deck and legalized the existing above ground swimming pool. The violation is Article 56, Section 37, screening and buffering, Article 56, Section 8, insufficient side-jad setback, Article 56, Section 8, insufficient ray-ad setback. Name and address for the record please. Joseph McQuinnie. And a 20-alameda road west rock-tbury mass. Reggie Dufors, the owner. And is this, this is a one family? It's a one family home. And it's okay. So tell us what's being proposed. He had a swimming pool put in and I had a plot plan put together and only the right setback was three inches too close. It calls for four feet. We're at three feet nine inches. The rear setback is sufficient. It's over five feet. It's only calling for four. And we do have, and he does have a six foot fence around his pool already. The only thing I see was the right setback. And we were just, let's just look at, so it's, it's an above ground pool. It's, is it latched? Okay. And then tell us about the deck. So basically for his wife, because they can't get in the pool now, the way they built this pool, it's too far away from his existing deck. I'm just going to put a three foot strip. I'm going to drop it one step and I'm going to bring a set of stairs up the side. So you have to get through the six foot fence to enter into this women pool area. Okay. So tell us how close will the edge of that deck be to the side property line? Did you say, three foot nine? Three foot nine. It's the, the deck is four foot nine. So the deck is, is no problem with the deck. It's just, I was trying to get his pool legalized. And I didn't, you know, the poor guy spent so much money. I didn't install the pool. I'm just trying to help him out, you know? I'm just trying to help him out. I'm just trying to help him out. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. We're yard. Okay. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? You're, you're looking at him. I, there's not much more in this than showing. I tried to sort of assess it a little bit from Google view. It's a little hard. You know, I think that. It seems pretty simple that I can understand what he's trying to do. And I think it's fine. I don't mind the setback issue. I don't have any questions from. I think it's pretty short. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or an opposition of this proposal? I don't share members of the board. Connor Newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor's office, like to defer to the judgment of the board. Some background information on the community process. This proposal went before the West Rocksbury neighborhood council. Back on December 14th, where they received the support of eight votes in support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have. Madam chair, sorry, Madam, Madam, Madam. Secretary, we do have one letter of support from a neighbor. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too, and support. So you're all second look. Thank you very much. Calling the next case. Calling B o a 127 6 325 47 Chesbo road. This is a take off the roof and second floor. To an existing strike at a second floor to an existing structure. The violation is article 56 section 8 front yard is insufficient and article 56 section 8. The side yard isn't sufficient. Name and address for the record please. Mark McLaughlin 25 Sharon drive handover. I'm speaking on behalf of the owners Jessica and Sean King at 47 Chesbo road. The violations are the front. So let me just ask you. So this is owner occupied. Correct. And it's a one family. So they want to put a second floor on. Correct. And what would the second floor? What would be in the second floor? Second floor, I believe if you scroll down to that page right there. There's going to be the master bedroom. Let me pull it up on my print here. Master bedroom, two bathrooms. And two guest bedrooms right now in the existing first floor. You can see there is. Well, there are two bedrooms. They just had another baby. Their son actually has developed a disease called do shame disease. And he's not going to be able to use his legs sometime within the next few years. So they're living in the basement with the baby now. They're looking to put this addition on so that they can move up into the up. And move up into the upper level. Give them some space up there as well as provide any cap access on the first floor for their son when the time comes. Okay. And so there will be no occupancy in the basement. No. Okay. How are the plans? Mr Robinson. Plans are fine. You know, basically putting two full size shed. And so that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to put it on. I'm going to put it on. I think. Probably BPD design review just to make sure it's not out of scale with the neighborhood buildings. There's a variety. So no, no real issue on the proposal. Thank you. Okay. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office neighborhood services. At this time, I'd like to defer to the board's judgment. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. This application went before the Russ Rocksbury neighborhood council. Also on December 14th where they received unanimous support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. They may have a motion, please. I'll make a motion to approve with. I think the BPD design review. I just. I too am in support. So you're all set with that. Provise a good luck. Thank you very much. Calling an X case calling the OA126888911741 Commonwealth Avenue. This is the converted existing dental office back to a residential use. The building will have a two unit dwelling. This is extend living space into the basement creating three bedrooms. The violation is article 51 section 9. The quality of ratio is excessive. Name an address for the record, please. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Frank Williams. My address is 888. Trim on street boss in mass. So tell us what's being proposed first. Tell us if this is an owner occupied building. It's not owner occupied. It's a two family home. It's a two family home. It's a two family home. It's a two family home. Currently. It's a brown stone and a block of about 50 brown stones and bright. It's it's multi generational dentist practice. Sorry. You know, let me just confirm with you. So this is rent. A rental building. The. The owner of this building is. It's an investment property. It's a two family home. It's a two family home. It's a two family home. Yes, Madam. I'm the owner. You are the owner, but you don't live there. I do not live there. No. It's it's going to be it. It's going to be a two family apartment building. Okay. So a couple of things on this. In this subcommittee, we only hear from people who are. Buildings that are owner occupied. So that's one thing. And this thing. And the second thing is that, you know, we generally don't support. Bedrooms in the basement. So may I have a motion for deferral to the full board. Manager, this is Tom. I do know that. How more than just owner occupied structures to come. What's up? Many nowadays. Yeah, no, we're going to we're going to we've always pretty much. We're going to have a conversation. But thank you. I want to say hi to our. And I did have a conversation with, uh, the previous commissioner. To that effect. So we will hold it to that because it also allows Mr Williams. To address the, um, the, the unit's the bedrooms and the basement. Okay. So may I have a motion for deferral? I just just for clarity say the bedroom units are it's full walk out in the back so the bedroom units are open to the outside and the rear. Yes, yes, yes, but I'll make a motion to defer. Mr. Williams, please hold on. There's a second. Second at Madam Chae is I too am in support. Can you give us a date, please for the full board? We'll do next Tuesday the 15th. Okay. We're going to do we'll see. 1130 at 1230 1230. Okay, Mr. Williams will see you on Tuesday at 1230. Does that work for you? Yes, it does. Okay, just know that when you are on the platform will be different. It will be zoom. It will be zoom. Okay, 1230 while I get a notice or is this is the notice now? There's a miss a really there's going to be a notice post to the public notice is portion of the city's web page. And you can also reach out to the boards administrative office and they'll send you a personal link to get into the here. Okay, thank you very much. Calling an X case calling B O A 1226144 98 big hello street. This is a warehouse addition and master suite in kitchen Meanwhile and read deck with stairs. Violations article 51 section 9 the rear yard isn't sufficient name and address for the record please. As a Mr. Bozer on Michael Bozer. I'm a support and let's go to the last case. Following an X case for B O A 1226. Sorry, I thought I was ahead of my hand raised before. This is Michael. Okay, go ahead. Just for the record please. Michael Bozer 98 big hello street. So please tell us what's being proposed. It's a rear addition with a deck on the back. Okay, so is this a one family owner occupied? Yes. Okay, and tell us a little bit about that rear addition. So what's that? Oh, big is it 15 feet. Okay, so it's adding to the to the. The basement is a walk out so it's going to be a flat foundation. But there'll be no occupancy down there. It'll be a off the kitchen in the back of the first floor. There'll be there's currently a full bathroom. It'll be a half bath. And then a deck off that level. And the upstairs will add a bathroom and one more bedroom. And your violation is rear yard and sufficiency. How close will you be to the rear yard and what's required by zoning? I think the zoning is 40 feet and we're going to be at 24 feet. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I'm not concerned about the rear yard. It does back up to a development, but that development's pushed away. So there's quite a bit of buffer actually between the two. So I think it's fairly straight. No other questions. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. I'm not sure I have no way of standing at the moment. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all second luck. Thank you. Calling the last case and the night calling B O A 12 7 7 249 3 Adamson Street. This is constructing a second floor addition and framing a new dorm or the violation of Article 51 Section 9, the Florida issue was excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Miss powers on. Yes, she's up there. Hi, can you hear us? Hi, yes, I can hear me. Yes, go ahead. Thank you so much. My name is Jean Powers. I'm the owner of three Adamson Street, Madam Chair and members of the board. Thank you so much for hearing our proposal. We have a two bedroom one bathroom house and we are asking to put a dormer on the back. And to turn the second floor into three bedrooms, two baths, we're using the existing floor space and the part that we're expanding into is unusable knee wall space that don't become usable when we pop up the back of the house. Is this the one family dwelling? Yes. And the intention is for it to stay a single family? Yes, it's just me and my two kids. Okay. Okay. How are the plans? Mr Robinson. Plans are good. Fairly straightforward. No questions on the proposed scope. It is exactly as she indicated. And it looks like the only violation is FAR. That's right. Yeah. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayor's office and the government services. At this time, the mayor's office is like to defer to the board's judgment. To back on information on the community process, a fly was circulated to a butters. Our office received five letters of support from direct to butters. I believe the board should have copies of these. The app can also went to the all-sensific association, received their full support as well, with members saying that they were hopeful that this family would have a chance to remain in the area being there, involved in the community. Thank you. I see that Moira's hand is right. Oh, go ahead. Hi, this is Maureen McCree from Councilor Breeden's office. The Councilor would like to go on record as being in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Secretary, here we do have those letters that Connor has spoken of. And I have no additional waste hands at the moment. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. I'll second that motion. I too am in support. So you're all set. Good luck. I'm so happy. Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thank you. OK, guys, meeting is now adjourned. Thank you. One.