 you you you you you you . Please let us know of your thoughts that have not been mentioned before. If they have already been stated, please put your name and address on the record and just state that you are in support or in opposition. More? Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning. The first order of business to the approval of the hearing minister January 29, 2019, in February 5th of 2019, we need a motion. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the first case to G-Cod. Calling case BOA 917-077-28 Fenway. 28 Fenway here? Come to the table. Put your name and address on the record, please. This is to perform an interior renovations. Restore existing facade and the front elevation. Restore existing facade and modify several existing openings at the rear elevation. To include private parking at ground level access from a rear for owner. The violation is Article 32 Section 4. This is in the G-Cod applicability. Name and address for the record, please. The morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Rowan, and a trustee, and we do have the BWSC approval letter. May I have a motion, please? We also have the letter Madam Chair. Motion for approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the second case to G-Cod. Calling BOA 915-772-130 West Newton Street. This is to renovate three unit buildings. The violation is Article 32 Section 4. This is in the G-Cod applicability. Name and address for the record, please. Here. Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Rowan, and a trustee. And we request the whole for signature. These plans have been submitted to Water and Sour in the current review. We just don't have the letter yet. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Make it. With the old signature. Is there a second? Make it. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm going to call the 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Madam Chair, we do have a withdrawal. I'm going to call in for the record. Calling BOA 897-774-602-Canaberry Street. I'm going to make a motion for denial with our credits. They are withdrawing. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Councilor address, please. Yes. Five Parkway Street and Seven Parkway Street. Fuller Record calling. Calling BOA 914-035-7 Parkway Street and BOA 914-0305-Pockway Street. Name and address for the record, please. One Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. The business address of 15 Broad Street, Boston Mass, or 2109. We're here seeking to defer these two cases. As working with the mail's office and the legal services, we need to have one more butters made it. We've had two already. Two already? I say. May I have a motion please? I'll take that further. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. May 21st. May 21st at 11.30. Okay. Okay. Address, please. And Highland and Highland. And Highland and Highland. 22 edits in Greek. You have two of them. I'm going to call Bolton Man for the record. Calling BOA 821-297-10 Midland Street. And there is another case. BOA 821-302-22 Edison Green. Name and address for the record please. Health contact. You speak up a little bit. Health contact. 58 gains for the street. And what are you requesting? A deferral or a withdrawal? A deferral. A deferral? Please. Okay. So what were the two addresses? I'm sorry. Midland and... Midland and... Midland and Edison Green. Okay. And tell us why you're requesting a deferral? The architect is not available. You have to call the Colorado for emergency. Okay. May I have a motion please? Motion for deferral on both cases. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Date please. You also have a date of May 21st at 11.30. Address please. I'm sorry. State for grade please. Okay. Good right now. Calling VO88853676 Lagrange please. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair. Members of the board. Turnage on task will drag on to Scott. This address is 15 broad streets. Seagulling at the deferral this morning. Do you have a meeting process? How far along are you? We've had an invite. There's a meeting in Berlin. I look for additional time. Do you have a local service? I have a local service. I have a local service. I have a local service. I look for additional time. Do you have a local service? I have a local service. I look for additional time. Do you have a local service? I have a local service. Okay. We have a motion please. Opposed to the deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please. We are going to go into June 11th at this time. Let me have time for community process. June 11th at 11.30. Thank you. Address please. Seven. Three. For the record calling VOA7636147 Cleveland Street. Yes. Okay. For the record calling VOA76363937 Wentup Street. Name an address for the record please. Emilio Campbell. And your address please? 19. We have a road matter pan mess. Tell us what your, I have a request for the, for the, for the, for what reason? The community wants to meet with us in the schedule for March 19th. So we need to give them more time. Okay. May I have a motion please? Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries the date. You are also into June. June 11th at 11.30. Okay. Thank you. No welcome. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Address please. It is a 667 B Street. First page. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. Crawling VOA 9082786667 B Street. Name an address for the record please. Jake Tune in with the supporting and the north. A branch remastered 10400. And tell us what you're requesting? Um, requesting a deferral there was a report that was, um, it was, that done for, um, tech report to address water erosion. Um, but there wasn't time to meet with the bothers. Please. Okay. May I have a motion please? Let me make a motion for the furl. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? 611. June 11th at 11.30. Okay. Thank you. Are there any other withdrawals or the furls for 9.30? Okay. We'll go to the first case. Calling VOA 896. 346. 14 to 16 Aldi Street. This is a constructing new third floor addition by removing existing roof to add a man's side roof. Case to the basement for unit one with excavation for the new sailing height. The renovation to the existing two family dwelling. The violation of Article 51 Section 9, the Florida Eratio is excessive. Article 51 Section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. Article 51 Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. And Article 51 Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Can you speak up please, I'm having a hard time hearing this morning. So please tell us what you're proposing to do. We're expecting our two family dwelling to figure space. Thanks for being the basement for the first floor unit. And also the living space under the attic for the second floor unit. The building will remain as a two family dwelling. And we are expecting our second kids. So we won't have more family for the family. And we eventually have the second floor unit for our in-laws to move in from maybe fire. So you're currently in the first floor and extension into the basement? Yes. Okay, tell us about that basement. What's the use in the basement? Right now we have our son is really my position. But we want to austerity to our living room to move back into home, passing in the basement so that we can afford back in the unit for the first floor. Okay. And how about the utilities for that second unit? Is that in the basement too? So the water unit is the basement, but it will be in a different area. Where they can access to the area from the outside. And the kidding system for the second floor unit is the attic. And it will remain in the attic. Okay. And what's the floor to ceiling height in that basement? Right now it's about seven feet. So we need to have two, three feet of the ceiling clearance for the water living space to follow the floor. Okay. Tell us about that second unit. The second unit will, correct, it has a kitchen which means that we don't have a kitchen. Which means that we don't have enough space to put in a living space. So we want to change the equipment to a manager who can have some living space there. We'll first take a place from the second floor to the attic space, please stand the space. It's going to space to floor that to the back unit. You have two units with four bedrooms. Okay. And what's parking one of your violations? No. Okay. Okay. Okay. And those are all pre-existing. How are the plans, Mr. Bessani? The Drunk's are adequate. I do have a question. And that is that for the basement units you have window wells. Yes. And I'll free you on the foundation wall. Is there any foot traffic over those window wells or adjacent to it? How are you talking foot traffic guys into the neighbors? No. Thank you. Yes. So I believe that the two of the window wells will go into our side yard. And we're going to have a fence that can be opened from the inside to the kids running, running, running, falling to the roof. And then you have one of the front. Yes. And where is your parking? The parking is in the mirror. The buildings we have a driveway that's picking up two foot six cars. And over the years we have had each other parking. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go and record and support this project. I conduct this at the butters meeting in December 6th. They met with neighbors to answer questions. They also went on to the Austin Civic Association and received overwhelming support. This is a great opportunity to keep a family in the Austin area. And we're looking forward to that in stay. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polanco, behalf of Councillor Mark C. Omo. I'll select the go record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association. We'd like to echo the comments of the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. There was overwhelming support for the proposal with the proviso that there would be no building code relief and that there wouldn't be any kitchens constructed in the new living space. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? We have a motion, please. Motion for approval with BPD, design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set to go. All in view. Aye 9-1-1-696-25-27 Leicester Street. This is a change of actually from a two family dwelling to a four family dwelling and extend living, first floor living space into the basement, building new three-story rear addition with two cargo arge, provide five on-grade parking spaces. The violation of Article 51 Section 8, a four family dwelling unit, is a forbidden use, Article 51 Section 9, the dimensional regulate and the zoning sub-district, the main entrance of the dwelling unit, shall face the front lot line. Article 51 Section 9, the height is excessive and feet. Article 51 Section 9, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 51 Section 9, the rear yard setback is insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, the height is excessive and stories. Article 51 Section 40-5A, a three parking design, access driver maneuverability. Article 51 Section 53, a three parking screening and buffering. May I address for the record please? More in the June notice of the board, 20 dark small. The business address of 15 garage street, lost of mask, 2209. With me today, as we architect the project Mr. has a kind of practice. And also Mr. Powell, I'll need that who is the owner of the property. Chair, today we are here seeking really change of the big locks to see how we're building. From a two family dwelling to a four family dwelling, by directing a three story rare addition, and a two garage garage to the existing structure. The zoning sub district is 2F 5000. A lot size is approximately 800 200 square feet. I'm sorry about what's a lot size? 8,105 square feet. Thank you. And it's 2F 5000 zoning sub district. The violation is far less. The four family needs regulation is a good news. The national regulations for the addition that we're placing on the rear of the property, the entrance for the addition is on the side of the property. So that's why we're setting that. If we got to building height, the required height is 35 feet. The existing rich top of the house currently is at 375. We're not going higher than that. So it's a existing non-conforming. The FAR, the required is .6. We're going to .9. The rear yard setback is 30 feet. We have .2. 21, 6, 3, 1, 6, 22 feet. We're providing seven off street parking spaces. And what's required? Seven. So you're meeting the parking requirement, however, the maneuverability and the screening and buffering of the triggers. Okay. How do we do it screening buffering? How long does it take to get this one? So tell us about these two units, where they will be in the addition? Well, the units are, first of all, I can mention that the owner lives in the current three family. He lives on the first floor. Is it a three family or a two family? It's just in two families. Okay. He lives on the first floor. He rents the second and third floor. The second and third floor is actually one unit. What he's hoping to do is because he lives on the first floor, it doesn't need his family needs. He starts a growing family, has an extended family, does the reason why he's adding a fourth unit on the back. So that fourth unit is the addition from the basement to the third floor that would be his unit. So he moves out of that into the fourth unit. He's renting the first floor. He's renting, which will be a three bedroom unit with one and a half bath. He's renting the second floor, which would be a three bedroom, one and a half bath unit. The third floor will be turned into the third unit. He will install the kitchen there, two baths, and I will also be a third three bedroom unit as well. So the existing building as it is will house three units, the fourth unit is again, which he's going to live in, is the addition on the back. And how many bedrooms will that be? I'm sorry? How many bedrooms will that be? It's not that he has 12 bedrooms, possibly 4 and a half baths, there are a lot of bathrooms. So the total bedroom count will be three, six, nine, so there will be ten bedrooms in this new configuration. Yeah, nine, nine and four. Three, three, three, nine and four, thirteen bedrooms. 13 bedrooms. Okay. And what's the square footage of the fourth proposed unit? The fourth four unit is 2843 square feet. 2843 square feet. Yes, it's fairly large unit for bedrooms, yeah, because it's a four bedroom unit in baths. And there's no other option that this, that the applicant could explore, because these are a lot of violations. But he wants to provide housing as well, that's why that unit, the existing building really is a fairly large building. That's why I'm waiting because of the three units there, and the addition will be put on the back. So there was something privacy that's banned the versus suffrax him from this room. About to, Mr. Alvin has a large family. Can you extend the phone to them? No, but you know how it is that we need to look forward to saying that these approvals go into perpetuity and it's, you know, that's what it is. How are the plans, Mr. Desani? The plans are fine. I'm having a problem. I don't appear to have the fourth floor plan. I have a basement for a second and third. What am I missing? What am I missing? I don't have a fourth floor plan. This was supposed to be the basement on the existing unit, first, second and third floor on the existing building. On the addition, there is a basement for the new addition, first, second and third floor. No, no, no. Okay, so the previous statement is about the fourth floor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You said that the two units are second and third floor in the existing building will each meet and you come three bedroom units. Right, the existing, yes, the right bed. But there now, it's now one unit, second and third floor. There's one second. There's six bedrooms there now. Yes. The unit's up there. Okay. How many kitchens are actually in this building? Four kitchens. Three kitchens are the existing building for the three units and he has this, he has one kitchen and this unit, the fourth unit. Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms? No, I thought it was a current family. The current is a two family. The current existing building exists as a two family. Did they have three kitchens in there now? No, no. It's just two kitchens. I'm sorry. Maybe I have to listen to this question. There's only two kitchens in the two families. I may listen to you. Okay. Okay. Have you seen the BRA recommendation? I'm just taking a look at it now. What's the floor to ceiling and basement? There are some for six. That'll be during the new basement as well. The new basement, either the bed, we may try to get 8 feet of pecan. Madam Chair, we also had a couple of community meetings with regard to this. We have the new express, the brothers made the express by the men's outside of the services. I'm going to remember whose brothers came out and the support. We also met the AIA. They gave us their support. We also expressed one of two of the neighbors. We had an additional meeting to the street. I think it was one of two people's home in that regard as well. Also, the impact for the addition is very little because we don't understand the level right. It just constructs the impact. It's very little as it relates to the street scape. The additional street has numerous two or three family buildings that are fairly large. Buildings are also there as a multi-family building next to the hip building. On the backside there's also multi-family building as well. Yes, Madam Chair, on that street number 15 is 26. The four is a six years old. There are several multi-family buildings. We just are in that area. On that street number 15 is the arrow. Can you talk about the BPA recommendation? It does say that in our opinion it's too big and when you have 13 bedrooms it's a point to the map. So, statement that this goes on in perpetuity. That's our concern. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. I'd like to thank the support of this project. As Derek mentioned, I conducted a new voters meeting January 11th and they went on to the BAA. The only concern that was frequently raised was added cars on the street. But they have a very large driveway and I expressed to the applicant in representation. I felt comfortable signing off as long as those cars were made in the driveway. It's on a bird not a street park. Apricot, that point. I'd like to ask BGD to comment on the parking. Yes. What would they go about the transportation department? It looks like Bob DeMiko, the transportation department. It looks like they're three cars in the driveway parked bumper to bumper, which would require two cars to move to let that third one out from the plans that I could just look at. So, I don't know if that works very well. It would provide inconvenience to one of the three people that are parked in that location because they're bumper to bumper and there's no room for maneuverability. Thank you. Go ahead. I'm Chairman of the board, Daniel Polanco. We have to come to Mark C. O'Mulls, so let me give them record and support. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in support? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? So, I'm sorry. So, Bob, you said the tandem parking does not work. No. And so, there are going to be seven cars proposed for this site, but the rest of them, the four other cars, do not have that issue. Right. Okay. The drive is addressed to that. It's not the type of tandem parking. There is, it's almost like the street, the ventilation strip, where car parks and backs in, backs out, those are the backs back up, backs out again. So, the driveway is more of a sense of parking. Since parallel parking is essentially, it's essentially parallel parking. Exactly. And he does that now. That's the existing situation. It's why, it's how it is. How wide is it? How wide is it? You have, it's about, like, one. It's one of the two cars, one of the side cars. It's why, right. It's about 20 feet wide. So, yeah. And what's the depth? It's about 20 foot-left clearance there. Okay. So, that's the idea to create a street situation, traditional street situation for cars can get in and out. The other thing that's been taken is that the owner lives it. For now. For now. Yeah. I'm going to make a motion to approve, but BPD to pay special attention to the parking and make sure that it's reasonable and that it works. Yeah, for design review for the addition, but also for strong screening and buffering. Should we hold signature until we hear that from BPD? That sounds like a plan. I'll make that out to Alex up that amendment. There is second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Call your next case. Call your next case. Call your B-O-A-917579349 to 34988 Baker Street. There's also a companion case B-O-A-917588345 to 345B Baker Street. This is a 349A directly new two family with parking on the first level and the same lot as the three family. Vialation is Article 56, Section 40.1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, and the same lot. Article 56, Section 7, a two family is forbidden. Article 56, Section 8. The main entrance to face the front lot line. Article 56, Section 8. The building height is excessive in stories. Article 56, Section 8. Usable open spaces and sufficient. Article 56, Section 8. The rail yard is insufficient. And Article 56, Section 8, side yard is insufficient. I'm going to read into the record. This is a summary of the parking on the first level and the same lot line for the two family. And the lots are combined. The only difference on the violations. We have the same violations as the previous. Article 56, Section 7, a three family is forbidden. Name and address for the record please. Morning, Madam Chair, members and board. My name is George Moranse, I'm the attorney for Business Adress. I'm a pre-50 voice progoist. I'm self-awakening. I'm joined by an idiot right by Timothy Berk, the project architect and Tim's right, a coiled younger of the property. Madam Chair, members, this is a project to consolidate two lots. They're two existing two family dwellings, one on each lot. The proposal would be to raise the existing older two families, consolidate these two lots into a new lot, which would be 17,388 square feet, and then to erect on the newly configured lot, a two family dwelling and a three family dwelling. So the net effect of this is to consolidate lots and increase the coverage of the lot from four units currently to the last. Currently, two opposed five units. The units would be a generous size, four bedroom family sized units each with the two car garage. The units would range in size from 2296 square feet up to 4,542 square feet. These would be four bedroom three and a half bath units. The violations owed to a couple of things, namely two more dwellings on the same lot. Again, this is the consolidation of two lots. The main point of purpose behind the consolidation is to economize and facilitate entrance to the site, and entrance to the off-street parking facilities. The other violation is related in the sense of the violation for main entrance of the units, not facing Baker Street. These are essentially interior, or was courtyard-facing buildings, so that parking can be accessed by means of coming in off the Baker Street, going left or right, depending on which building one's unit was located in. There is a building height violation that is stories only. These would be three and a half story dwellings. They would still come in at 35 feet in total, even near height, which is the maximum in the district, which is a 1F6000, which leads us to the violation for the big use. There is a proposed two family, and a proposed three families. This is 1F district. There are four to two uses. If you have been the two existing uses. Sorry, this is 1F6000. So the two existing uses are not conforming as well. It's two families. Again, we're going to the two families, you can three families. There's a usable open space, insubitancy. This district is 500 square feet of use of the open space required for the dwelling unit, which for five units would be 9,000 square feet. The entire lot is just over 17,000 square feet. There's a rear yard insubitancy. 30 feet is required. The minimum rear yard with the new buildings would be 16.8 feet. And there's a side yard violation. The minimum required is 12. This project would be at 9.4 feet on the proposed side yard setback. And that's the side yard. So you're going to define side yard on the zoning. So it's essentially the rear yard of the proposed workshop. The rear yard of the buildings, but it is the side of the lot line. Okay. Okay. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Zani? Why don't you add any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Jack Duggan, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Just like to go on record support. The proponents had a full community process. And the butters meeting September, one of the main issues was the number of bedrooms, which was five. So they decreased that to four bedrooms in each unit. Sent over revised plans. They did go to the neighbor council. They were opposed there. However, I did not believe a lot of neighbors were there. I have 15 support letters with me here today. So I just like to go on record support and ask that if it is approved that the proponents keep an open dialogue with the neighbors throughout the design and view process. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Channon Murphy from City Councilor Matt O'Malley's Office. The council likes to go on record in support of this project. Can you please speak up some? Madam Chair, can you please speak up some? I'm sorry. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I look directly across the street from this gentleman. Years ago when he bought his house. Excuse me, are you in support? Madam Chair, no. Yes, I'm against them. Hold on one minute. Yes, you're going on. Hold on one minute. Is anybody else here to speak in support? I see somebody else who is standing up. If anybody else is speaking in opposition, please line up behind this gentleman. Well, sir, I came to Father David's and he said he was going to live at the house. There was a legal house. He had a baby and everyone said it was for him. Suzy got permission to turn it to family. He made it to family. He left the neighborhood. It also there's no room for the ten cards that are going to be there. It's a very dangerous street. Okay. There's no detectives of living there or do adopted. He's not a great neighbor. Okay. And your name and address please? I'm about 354 Baker Street, directly across the street from him. And what's your name? James Parts. Okay. T-O-T-T-S. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm with the board. My main concern is, if I can. Can you speak up please? You can pull the microphone off. Yeah, you can. So, I live in 28-dollar road, which is directly behind the 345 property. And I'm concerned about the Rereard Variants, as well as the hype. The hype variants. I feel like the house will be looming down on my property, which right now my backyard is somewhat of a private spot for us. And your name please? Richard Mohalent. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else here to speak in opposition? Any response please? I'll turn it on. On the issue we set back the property. The Rereard, as I said, a Rereard violation here at 3D is required. On that side, the 345 side, the Rereard setback varies from 16.8 and minimum to 19.7. And that's for approximately a 47-foot portion of that of the lot where the bill would actually be. The rest of it is an obstructed. In terms of the hype, there's only a story high violation. The building would be 35 feet. 35 feet. The 35 feet is allowed by somebody. And this includes parking garages, two car parking garages. Yes, there's one garage per unit. And so the garages are there. And I just want to point out Mr. Duggan from all my national reference court letters. I did submit those good deeds to the board. The vast majority of them are from Baker and in namespring. Do you have a motion, please? I make a motion to approve with obviously BPD design review for the building. And just to continue to make an amendment to make a motion with the continued work with the neighbors to make sure that they're informed of the construction plan and also to make sure that they know what's going on. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. 9-0-8171-168-Dainer Avenue. This is a change of lockers from a one family to a two family, a Rapport tradition. The violation, Diagonal 69, Section 29, R3-5, is insufficient, two space required. Diagonal 69, Section 8, a two family dwelling is forbidden in a 1F-6000 sub district. Name and address for the record, please. Name and address for the record. If you guys could just speak loud, the acoustics in here are not very good. So that's just basically a recording of I, the device, but if you can speak up, that would be great. Short Kyle Smith with Katie S. Law, Business Address of 359 Newbury Street in Boston. To my left, I have the proponent, Nowner. To his left, I have Alene Rosa of Rose Architects, the architect for the project. Thank you. Please tell us what's being proposed. Sure, and if I can provide a little bit of back context as well. But in June of 2017, the owner became and owned at the property. It was a lawful single family. He absorbed it and became owner as a de facto two family. So we've had a premises of building that's been a two family for longer than we have. We can't prove how long it's been a two family, but that's how he absorbed the property. How they playing taxes is a two family on, are there two meters? There's a single meter of present. About the taxes. Taxes, it's presently being taxes, a single family. So what evidence is there that this has historically been a two family? We haven't had anybody on site from BPDA or ISD, but the owner has removed appliances that are more than a decade or two decades old. So there's been no new construction to the project since he purchased it in 2017. So it was a pre-existing single family being used as a two. So the proposal is to basically expand the footprint of the existing single for our first four deck. Build a second for deck in the process. The owner wasn't aware of the zoning implications behind it. The plans were submitted October. He was ultimately issued the refusal letter. It's a single family 6,000 sub district. So he wants to lawfully bring the second unit into compliance and make this a legal two family. There's no proposed expansion to the footprint or to the envelope of the building or any expansion. So we have pre-existing square feet, pre-existing de facto two units. So we're just basically trying to lawfully the second unit. As a quick note, the plans are not submitted with the site plans that you have before you. We have an existing also a proposed site plan. We have more than enough off street parking. We were not able to get an updated refusal letter from ISD at this point, but we believe the citation for insufficient off street parking is incorrect or will be incorrect. And we'll get an updated refusal letter for that. Do you have a site plan? Yes, they're submitted with the packages. I have additional here if you like it. How many programs in each unit? Currently, the first floor is a unit and has two beds. The second unit is comprised of a portion being on the second floor of two beds and also on the third floor of two beds. So the second unit has four beds. We have a square footage in total of 2,388 square feet. Acesseer's office has 2,478. We believe our architectural plans to be more accurate. First unit is 1,028 square feet. The second unit is 974. On the second floor, and 384 on the third floor, four are combined roughly 1,358 square feet. We have a combined FAR with both units of about 0.245. Permissible is 0.5. Tell us which drawing we should be looking at for the deck. The architect roles. Which plan number? This sheet number 8,1.1. 8,1.2 for the second floor. This is a 20 x 7 foot deck. Correct. Likewise on the second unit. Correct. What's the access to the second unit? Is it from the deck? That will be the second means of the act. The main axis is through the front of the property. This is staircase. Any questions, Mr. Pazani? How are the plans? The second means of access from the second floor is off the deck and stairs. Correct. The second means of the first floor is off the deck and stairs going down. Correct. What was the second means of the digress in existing conditions? Originally it was inside but when the client purchased the house, the second means of the digress was locked. We tried to create the support to make a complaint with two means of digress on each unit. Correct. Any other questions? The addition is now the carport and the trip deck. The garage is pre-existing. The only addition will be in the first floor and the creation of a second. I'm sorry, what was that again? The intent is not to replace everything at present. How many parts of the spaces are going to be allowed in due renovation? We have a garage which accommodates two. There is a proposal to expand the driveway slightly to, you know, as the second plan proposed plan indicates there will be four tall spaces to garage base and two exterior. Do you have a drawing that shows those spaces? Yes, there is a proposed plan with you and also the original existing and a proposed. It's the third sheet on the set, a proposed plop plan. They were separate to the architectural plans. Any other questions from the board? Yes, anybody here? I have a question. Yes, sir. You bought the property as a single family? Yes. Okay. It's been traded as a single family several times from something we see here. Right. And you're collecting rent from somebody else? From a person, he would be in the house. So it's a family member or family unit that's living with him. And there's two kitchens in the property? Yes. So there were not all of the components necessary to call it a kitchen upon the conveyance to the current owner. So you have to have a stove, you have to have all this requirement. So by removing this... Let's slow down just for one second. Sure. As you told us that it was used as a two family. Correct. Way back when, and now you're telling us that it doesn't have that setup. There's a full kitchen. If you remove a stove, you can then not necessarily have to call it legally a kitchen. So kind of, you know, skirts around. So, what are your requirements? A microwave or a convection oven? I'm not sure what was there before the owner purchased the property, but there was a de facto kitchen. Refergerator, sinks, dishwasher, etc. Okay. So, um... Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Brian Flynn with the Mayors Office Enable with Services. We did have an about his meeting while back. New things have come to light since then, in terms of opposition from the community and many residents. Sighting such concerns as work that was done, you know, without proper permutation, I think permits and things of that nature. So, at this time, we cannot support it. Thank you. Thank you. Walter? Brian, can I... Before you leave, is the issue of gas behavior or is there a problem with the proposed changes as well? So, we've basically gone a lot of phone calls. I've gone a lot of phone calls from multiple residents. Basically, I decided that there was work, some work done illegally, and ISD was involved as well. So, then I just felt that, you know, I just didn't feel comfortable supporting the project at this time. Walter? Good morning, Walter. I'm White, Councilman Cardiff's office. We'd also like to go on record as opposed to the similar reasons. We got a little phone calls that work was done on the project and that it was being rented out. And so, I couldn't necessarily endorse what was there because I'm not sure what was there, because it was a report that work was done before coming to this board. So, I'm not necessarily sure what... I know it's zone as a single family. It's been taxed as a single family, I believe, since 80, maybe 87. And I'm not sure what existed in that. Thank you. Anybody else in opposition? Just for the record, we have received a letter. The butter has to be out of town, which basically states that over the years, this building has always been a single family dwelling, that this person holds no issue with the new purchases of the building. However, it appears that that second unit or the kitchen has been added since the purchase, and that there's been construction and construction related issues with the new owners. Madam Chair, can the owner respond? Yes, please, briefly. When they bought the house, I saw the sub-entitation and for the future. So, it was two-kitchen. When they moved, they used to use the kitchen and the second floor, like laundry, and they have all their appliances in there, but they don't use to use because it was two people living in the house by themselves. So, I moved in, and yes, I put on hybrid floor in the whole entire house, and I fixed some broken windows. They made me say about, I do something, and that's what I did. I took all the car break of the house and put a brand new floor in it fixed all the windows broken. That's what I did. Thank you. Okay, given all this information, may I have a motion? Motion to final. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The proposal has been denied. Thank you. Thank you. Following a next case, calling BOA 900018927 Leedsville Street. This is new construction of a three-family residential on vacant land. The violation of Article 65, Section 9, the usable open space is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. I live in a five-round, Carlton Road, Robin Mass. I'm sorry, you're addressing it? Carlton Road, Robin Mass 02468. So, what's your proposing to do? So, we're proposing to build a three-family on vacant land. Three-family is going to have four bathrooms each, two-baths, more open living room and kitchen. And a place is going to have four parking spots in the rear. I'm sorry, I'm having difficulty hearing today. Can you please speak up? Sure. We're proposing a three-family unit, four bathrooms, sorry, four bedrooms each, two-baths per floor, and open kitchen and living room. Okay. And parking. There's going to be four parking spots in the rear. Okay. It looks like your only violation is open space. Yes. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? How many parking spaces are you providing? I'm proposing. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Bazzani. How many parking spaces have been provided? We're proposing four parking spots. How many bedrooms? Four bedrooms. Sorry, 12 bedrooms, yes. 12 bedrooms. 12 bedrooms, yes. Now, you've got through a community process. Are there new plans that you may have? Yes. The new plan is basically just to take away the handicap ramp in the front, because I think our neighbor at 20, 20, sorry, 31, these will seem really want us to put in a handicap ramp. So, can we make sure Mr. Bazzani has the updated plans, please? And so, how is handicap, a handicap unit going to be provided on site? There won't be a handicap unit at this point, because we're not going to plan to have a handicap unit. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board, co-op fan from Mayor's Office of Neighborhood and Services. We would like to go and record and support the applicant that's have the above is meeting out and also multiple civic meeting in order to allow them more time to converse with the neighbors and which he came back agreed to removing the handicap accessible in the front and also providing fencing for privacy along the above is property. Can we get back to that point? It's a multi-family dwelling, that is it's more than two units, the three units. Accessibility is required. How is it that the community simply wants to remove it and it's not within their purview? And who plans that were submitted and not have benefit of having been reviewed by ISD? ISD reviewed plans that had the accessible rent. So Miss Misani, it sounds like there is a technical problem with those plans, so this likely needs to be deferred. I'm up motion for deferral. When you come back, bring a letter from ISD that looks and comments on these plans because as far as I can see you have a violation. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed, the date please? June 11th. June 11th at 11.30, please give us the additional information that we need. Okay, anybody here who's here to speak on this project, we will hear it and it's full detail on June 11th. Okay, thank you. Going in the next case, following BO8893-315-18-26 Bradshaw Street. This is directly five new townhouses. The violation of Article 66 and 8. For bid and use, the maximum number of townhouse buildings and a 3F sub district is 3. Article 66 and 9, insufficient minimum lot area. Article 66 and 9, insufficient minimum lot width. Article 66 and 9, insufficient minimum lot frontage. Article 66 and 9, excessive FAR. Article 66 and 9, insufficient use of open space for dwelling unit. Article 66 and 9, insufficient front yard setback. Article 66 and 9, insufficient side yard setback. Article 66 and 9, insufficient rear yard setback. And Article 66 and 41, two or more dwellings upon one lot. Name and address for the record please. Good morning and I'm Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is George Maranson. My attorney for Business Adder is a 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I'm joined by the Arthur Tudor Project Architect. Madam Chair and Members, this is a proposal to develop a 6,267 square foot vacant lot on Brightraw Street. This is the corner of Glucin Street into the new 5-unit building. This would be 5 consecutive townhouse style units. The site has been something of a whole on the ground for three decades or so. I think during process that people in the neighborhood would be happy to see something being developed here. The 5 units would all be the same size, the same unit, 13,158 square feet each. The first one would be served by a one-carriage. Each garage would have its own driveway. The curb cut on ranch luxury. These would be two-bedroom units. Introducing five cup cuts on to Bradshaw. Yes, we'll try to ensure we'll be discussing a little bit. So that's it. It's a very simple project. Five-two-bedroom units. I think the issue here that's in front of us is sequence of five 10-foot curb cuts on Brightraw Street, including getting very close to Glucin Street. I was not part of the community process for this, but even I would recognize that it appears to me that building may be upside down in terms of on the site. I think that this is something that could be rectified and the project could be improved by simply flipping it with a single driveway out. So, I think that this is a single driveway access from Glucin Street. It's just a quick question. Would this benefit from a deferral so that all these flipping arounds can occur prior to it coming to this point? I don't think so only. Because isn't going to create additional violations? Now, it's essentially the same building. I just think that, and there was an option presented by the architect to the client about doing it with access from Glucin Street. So, I wanted it this way. I think there was an anticipation that maybe during community process that would change. And it didn't. The community was from what I understand quite supportive of the project. But I don't think it would require a deferral, even the sense that all we're really talking about is eliminating streetside curb cuts on Brightraw Street and effectuating entry to the site from Glucin Street into the garage. And just changing the interior configurations of the building so the garages are accessed from the other side. That also has the benefit of removing those five garage doors on Brightraw Street, which I think is very unappealing from an urban design standpoint. I respect your comments, Councillor, as always. But you're putting the void in the position of approving something that we're not really proofing. But we can be part of it. So, we have a certain grind here. I understand. I think you're better off. I understand. I'm not going to fight the board in that issue. So, I think that the board is anticipating a motion to defer that in that case. All those in favor? Any opposed? The date, please? Well, we're already into June, so. Okay. June 11th. Okay. So, June 11th at 1130, ma'am, we'll defer this case because the plans need some work. And we will be here right again on June 11th at 1130. Okay. So, I hope you continue to be part of the process. Thank you. Thank you. Calling next case. Calling B-O-A-907. 324. 1-7. We'll cut. We'll cut. This is three-tip story townhouses to combine two lots for parking and existing building to be raised. Violation, Article 65, Section 41. Artistry parking, loading, location, Article 65, Section 8. Townhouse for units is forbidden. Article 65, Section 9, a lot frontage is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, side yard is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9, the rear yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. We may now chair in this floor to turn it very small, because it's just a 15-grossed, cross-stitch mass, which is 1-9. Repeat today as Mr. Matt Newton, you are architecture for architecture projects. So, we're here seeking relief to combine the botanist and rectiforce story townhouses for townhouse-style units. The existing structure on the side are demolished, and we have our presence of 10-hour street parking spaces. The zoning substance is 2,000, 6,000, and a lot size is 5,000, 6,000, and a 10-square feet. And that's 5,610 combined. That's correct. Okay. The violation of our spot is parking location. You have our 10 parking space is located on a separate parcel, which is located above. You can probably sit on the piano page of this. No, the side is now gel, at least spoke. The total amount size is what? 8,545 combined. And not including the parking area. That's correct. Including the parking. Everything. So, the building themselves are on 5,610 square feet. And the 10 parking spaces are on about 3,000 square feet. That's correct. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Chancellor. The four townhouse units at the location is forbidden using some discrep. The lot frightens is 50 feet. You have 30. And the FAR is 24. We are proposing 202. So, I'm sorry, the FAR is what? .4. And you're proposing what? .2. The building height, number of stories is 2.5 stories with the proposal of the way. The front gas set back is 15 feet required. You have 10 proposed. Side yard is 10 feet required. We're proposing 6. And the rear yard is 30 and we're proposing 7. And here we have a lengthy community process for the guys at this project. We have approximately 3 of brothers and sisters, and we also have 3 meetings with the NBVA, which is a support project. We have support for directed brothers. A couple of them who are here today. And we'll stop here. That's a good question to the board. So, tell us, what is proposed? So, how will the parking work? So, that parking lot is about 10 feet above where the houses are. So, people would park up there and walk down to the townhouses. But, they get off through a private way. What's the egress in the access? The egress is just a stairway. You can see it on the site, Clint. Sorry, was your question? How do they get in now? They just pull off the street. It's the parking right off the street. Okay, what's the difference between Mount Bowdoin, terrorist, private, and Mount Bowdoin, terrorist public? That private is just something that appears on the historical records. It's a public way. Mount Bowdoin is ours in a public way. Mount Bowdoin is ours in a public way. Explain to me by the surveyors that that appears on the records. But, it's off the street. So, it's like one huge curb cut. Yes. Right now, that's what it is. What's there currently on that site? Is it already these trash? It's just vacant land. They can land. Okay. And how tall is that retaining wall? It's 8 feet, approximately. 8 feet. Okay. And tell us what happens on the other side of the street from Mount Bowdoin, terrorist. Is that resident interviews? Yes. Single family? One's a terrorist. One's a terrorist. And what's the traffic light on Mount Bowdoin, terrorist, to have such a wide curb cut? Yes. Not on a traffic light on Mount Bowdoin. It's approximately, some of the houses on the street. On Mount Bowdoin, terrorist. Okay. We never hear that as bored. There's not much traffic on the street. You go. I'll follow the plan from Sipazani. The lines are accurate. Any further questions from the board? The board. You had a chance to take a look at the schedule ahead of you. In the meantime, while you guys do that, is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of Board of Patrick Fendell, behalf of the mayor's office in the overhead services. Here to speak on behalf of my colleague, Christine Brando, the coordinator for this area. They held a robust community process for this project proposal. We'd like to go on. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of Board, Dustin Gardner, behalf of City Council President Andrea Campbell's office. We'd also like to go on record and support with their continued work with the community as they have already. They've talked about implementing some lighting and some care for the street, which I believe that they're willing to do so. We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Are you speaking in support? Yes. Yes, please put your name and address on the record. Manual Goncal's, 71 Rosetta Street, I am one of the about us in support of the project. Thank you. Is anybody here? Madam Chair, lady? Yes, please. I just had a question. Just looking at the plan for the first time, there's a 100-foot curb cut. Okay. And if there's any parking on that side that can present someone of a problem, that's quite a huge curb cut. So tell us about that. Is there parking on that side of the street? There is. There is. Yes. There is. Okay. Is somebody here from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services who might know the street itself? No. Okay. Because we need to get a sense of how frequently that side of the street is used for parking. Did you say there is like seven houses on that street? Check. Okay. It's a front of this. Okay. Given that information. Before the VPDA recommendations for the furlough, especially. Yeah, we didn't have plans. Okay. I don't have any plans. That's pretty standard though. Yeah. May I have a motion, please? I'm going to make more human furlough. Obviously, we don't like doing that. But with an excess of an almost 100-foot curb cut. I kind of think of a project that we have looked at with that. And I think the board would benefit from actually taking a look at it. Because I don't have a strong enough sense. And the appellant is not able to give another information as to what the real impact of that humbler curve curve fit. I mean, we're taking a lot of cars off the street. And could I, well, is it a one-to-one or a one-to-three pan? It depends on the context. It depends on what that neighborhood really is. I don't have sufficient information to do that. I don't think it. That was a boy. But I think I can make a motion for 12 seconds. Exactly. All those in paper? Aye. Any opposed, the date? Councillor, I know you're coming back on the seventh. We can squeeze you in on May 7th. Mr. Ehrlich, we can get you in. May 7th and 1130. Okay? It's now 10-40. I'm going to call it 10-30 hearings. Are there any withdrawals or deferrals for 10-30? First place. There are two. The first is 560 East Fifth Street. Okay. What's the other one, Mark? The other one is 799 East Third. Yes. I'll tell you one of two. We've had a lot of deferrals. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Just so everybody is aware, we are into June. So if you're going to be deferring, you're going to be June into the June month, June 25th. So for the first one, VO890058799 East Third Street. And the other one, I'm sorry, Councillor. 560 East Fifth. Okay. Do we each want to separately? No. Okay. May we add address for the record for 799 East Third? For 799 East Third. Mark LeCas. 75 Arlington Street, Boston Mass. Tell us what the reason is. What are you requesting? What deferral of a draw? Requesting a deferral to continue the community process. So, tell us. When did it start? This is the first time we've been before this board. When does the community process start? We had an a butter meeting in December. Uh-huh. And we've continued to have one-on-one discussions with the butters. But we've had a request from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services and some of the butters that are here today to continue the process relating to the unit count and configuration of the building. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to deferral. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? A date please? Yeah, a date of June 25th at 1130. Thank you. And the other address was 560, I'm sorry. 560 East. For the record calling, V.O.A.865835660 East Fifth Street. Name an address for the record. Mark LeCas. LeCas. Law. 75 Arlington Street, Boston Mass. Attorney for the applicant. The right after we tell them. We have been actively engaged with the butters and hopeful that some design changes that are being requested and considered will get us to a point where we can come back to this board. But we're not there yet. And there's been a request. Just sort of curiosity. When did you put your application in? I'm just trying to figure out if we have an inordinate number of deferrals for today. And I don't know if it's the like because there were no community meetings in December. Or if projects are coming to this board before they are really processed. No, I think, Madam Chair, it's a matter of issues which we hope to resolve and make changes in proposals as we continue through the process. With the hearing date in mind and then we just don't quite get to the finish line. And then we're asked to have another community meeting. Most of which is, you know, only meet once a month. It just. Believe me, my clients don't wish to defer and like to complete the process ahead of time. But sometimes that's simply isn't the case. Okay, I guess. Okay. So may I have a motion please? Motion for deferral. Thank you. All those in favor. Hi. Any opposed to date, please? Data 625 at 1130. Thank you. Address, sir. Address. 40 dollars. For the record calling BOA, 21295, 295, 40, half of the street. Name an address for the record, please. I'll contact you. The answer was three, 12, and that. How does what are your requests in the withdrawal? I'm sorry about that. What are your requests? I'm asking. Are the first. Okay. Now this is your third deferral today. This is your third project. What's going on? Yeah, no. Same reason the architect is out of town. He's in Colorado. I'm sorry? The architect is out of town. For today? Yes, we have. Just for them. Can you present. He's representing all three that I... Can you proceed today with this case without your architect? No. No. We've already deferred the other. I know. But this is just too many cases. It's a waste of our time. May I have a motion for deferral? Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please. We're going to squeeze that one in, because we have a date of May 21st. We're going to squeeze it on on May 21st at 1130. Thank you so much. And this is a notice to everybody who may be watching and who's here that we are not supposed to giving too many deferrals. Second or third deferrals. If we expect these projects to reach to come to closure the next time we see them. So if the community needs to meet more frequently or if there needs to be more subcommittee meetings or whatever it is to bring projects to closure that really needs to happen. Because this, I think this board has been very tolerant about deferrals, but there are just far too many on put today. And we're seeing more of those recently. Okay. Now that I've said that, may we continue with the rest of our cases? I just want to make sure there are no more deferrals or withdrawals for 1030. Okay. Calling an ex case. Calling VO8 890 821 1069 to 1071 Dorchester Avenue. This is to confirm. This is to two family, change of occupancy to a three family. It proposes demolish an existing roof to construct a third floor addition on an existing footprint. Construct an exterior deck and egress stairs. The violation of Article 65 Section 41, Oscar Parking is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, Affleutia Ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9, Usable Open Space is insufficient. And Article 65 Section 9 beside Yad is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Moving on to the number of boys. Turn the dark small. The business address of 15 glossary. Lost the mask. 1, 0, 0, 9. With me today is Mr. Christian Gavelli, contractor. And Ms. Pat Schubert is the owner of the property. On chair three, we are here sitting here. We are going to meet the lock and see if the building. The two families are on a three-week period of blood by adding a third story addition to the building. There is only some district of the 3F, D, 3000. The lot size is approximately 3,000, the 166th week. Now chair, this is probably one of the only two deckers in the 3-decker zone. As far as we have of the whole property, we are seeking to go up the one story. And you are matching the design of the triple deckers around. On the side. That's correct. The violation of the tree parking requirement is one addition parking. We have not as doges that. I think there is pre-hampal parking on that street. The FAR is 1.3 and we are going to 1.7 with the addition. The opening street is we have just square feet per unit. We have 256. The style that I set back in the requirement is five feet. On one side we have four. On the other side we have three and a half. Those are pre-existing, not conforming conditions. And then I'm sure with regards to community process behind the buttons, we have a response to the measures asked in the resources. We lost them up on the side of the surface. How are the plans to Mr. Bazzani? Going to the adequate. Any questions from the board? I have just a board to see on the high innovation. 7.5. 9. I can tell you that you have named through a fair, there is not Apple parking on that part of the orchester everywhere. I know it well, but also, no of the units have obviously parking. It's consistent with the path. I don't have exactly the same example. Okay, anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick Fendell, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on support. Record in support of this project. There was no butters meeting held with the community at the point being overwhelmingly positive. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckren, City Council of Frank Baker's office. We'll let you go on record in support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. With BPDA design review. As a second, all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries are all sector buck. Call on BLA-832-2536 spring godden street. This is constructing a new rear attached garage with residential unit above. Government occupancy is at one family and changed to a three-family residential building. The violation of our Article 65 Section 41, our street parking is insufficient. Article 65 Section 8, a three-family dwelling is forbidden. Article 65 Section 9, a lot withers insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, a lot frontages and sufficient. Article 65 Section 9, a fluidier ratio is excessive. Article 65 Section 9, a height is excessive. Article 65 Section 9, a side yard is insufficient. Article 65 Section 9, a rear yard is insufficient. And Article 65 Section 9, 65-9.2, the location of the main entrance. Thank you. May I have your address for the record, please? Good morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is James Christopher. I see a project architect who is addressing 450 and a concert app. I'm doing my right by Joseph Baker. He's the owner of 36 spring godden street. He also owns several other properties on spring godden street as a lifelong resident. The proposal here is to construct a rear addition creating a new two-car garage. The rear property with the additional dwelling unit on top of it. And convert the existing structure from a single family to a three family residential unit. We have some zoning violations, most of which are preexisting and not informing the zoning violations that are new that we're creating are the usual soft three units. Parking is a violation which we're seeking relief from currently. We have two street parking spaces designed, three is the requirement and FAR. The allowed is 0.5 and the proposed FAR is 1.26. The unit breakdowns as follows. Unit 1 is 1,500 and 80 square feet. It's three bedrooms and two bath. Unit 2 is 1,104 square feet. It's three bedrooms and two baths. And then unit 3 is a small unit above the garage. It's 800 square feet with one bed, one bath. That's the first square footed, sir. Unit 1 is 1,500 and 80 square feet. And tell us about the violations. So we have street parking, the minute the requirement is three we have proposing two. The use itself, a lot with and frontage is insufficient. Those are preexisting, not informing. FAR is a new violation. Hi. So tell us what's required and what's proposed for height. For FAR height and all the other violations. Okay. So the parking is three we've provided with proposing two. The FAR allowed is 0.5 or 1.2. The height is 30 foot two. We're at 30 foot six, but I believe the violation is in stories. The left side yard, the existing one for both sides is 10 feet. Currently it's at 3.8 and in the rear with a new garage we constructed that goes down to one foot to the rear property line. But on the opposite side and the button on the garage. The front yard violation, the required is 15. The existing is at 10 feet when I'm changing it. The rear yard is 29. Existing is 29 feet with taking it down to 3 foot five to accommodate the two car garage. The required is 30. And the open space is number five. The entrance for that third unit is now going to the side of the house. Correct. Okay. How are the plans for this design? Why is there adequate? Any questions or rewards? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Patrick Fendell, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support of this project. There was a robust community process around this, including several of butters meetings and then meeting with the local civic association. The applicant also made great efforts to reach out to the butters informally and requests were met through those conversations. Thank you. Good morning, Chair, members of the Board. Karen Foley, Councillor Saby George's office. And we are called the sentiments of the mayor's office and we're supporting this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board, all Sullivan. I'll be honest with Councillor Lois, Michael Flarey. Councillor Jogel and Rick in support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, by Mayor Bosses. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, I'm Nancy King. I'm 34 Spring Garden Street, one of the butters. My fiancee and I have lived on the street for the past 12 years. When we started looking for houses, we moved to Spring Garden Street because of this. Can you just tell us briefly what your opposition is based on? Yeah, so my opposition is based on the fact that it's going to affect the density. The housing type and the design of the residential sub-district. The project is going to cover the majority of the lot. Something that other houses along our road don't do. The part of the lot that isn't built will be paved with the driveway, providing no yard on the property. And the size of the proposed project isn't in keeping with the scale and the character of the houses along our road of Spring Garden Street. As proposed during the butters meeting over the summer, it proposes a three car garage. I'm hearing now that it's a two car garage. We've had no insight into that change. And that's also very out of character for such a tight lot. The simple issue of, for example, of snow removal is going to be a challenge because there will be nowhere to put the snow. The whole property is going to be covered with the driveway if there is any open space. This area's zone does a two family residential district. In our row of similar houses, we're all built at the same time. They're all still single family houses. And I'm concerned about the character of the street changing and the overall fabric of an neighborhood being negatively affected. Thank you. Any other else's speaking opposition? Any response? Sure. The garage has always been a two car garage. I think there's some confusion about that. There was not that at the three car garage. Further, the design of the building from the street remains largely the same. We took care to keep the street scape and visual appearance of the existing fabric of the street. There are also several other multi-share buildings in the area on Spring Island Street and the budding streets. I've also provided the board with 20, I think it's 25 years of support from a butters, including three of the four director butters that physically share boundaries with 36 Spring Island. May I have a motion, please? One, two, four, give me a design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm calling you next case. Thank you, sir. Calling B-O-A, 912-313-30-Dunridge Street. There is also a companion case building called B-O-A 912-312-30-Dunridge Street. This is a change of oxygen from a two family to a three family. Functioning as a three family, paying family three family taxes on a three family. Two e-gresses for all units, no work to be done. The violation of the Article 50 Section 29. Additional, Laudierry and sufficient, and sufficient Laudierry for a unit. This is building code. This is a change of oxygen from a two family to a three family. And the building code, 9th edition 780-CMR, the 209-IEDBC change of oxygen to code compliance with the 215-IEDBC 780-CMR is required. The 9th edition 70-CMR, Chapter 9, Table 903.2, the change of use to classification. Changing legal use from an R3 to an R2 requires a sprinkler system protection. Name and address for the record, please. It's James and Kayo Wycoff for 30-Dunridge Street in Roxbury. The first thing we always ask is that you address the building code violation. So can you speak to that? Sure. It says, I'm sorry, the additional lot, insufficient lot. This is talking about the sprinkler system. Oh, okay. I can address that. The building was constructed in the 1890s, originally, and it had no pre-existing sprinkler system at that time, and none was installed when we, upon the purchase of the house, when we purchased it two years ago. So now that you're legalizing the occupancy, are you also going to be legalizing all the life safety issues that are in effect today? That wasn't a part of the plan. It was just the way the house is originally structured. Our budding neighbors have the same structure. We were just going to put the steps in place, go through due process to just legalize it as a three family, as it currently exists. Okay. Ms. Pazani, do you want to chime in on this? I mean, the purpose of the sprinkler is a sure life safety. Make a motion to deny the request of building code relief building should be sprinkled. So a second to that. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So it means that should the rest of your request go ahead, the building needs to be sprinkled. Okay. So tell us about your request to change it from a two to three family dwelling? Sure. So the house is already functioning as a three family, like it was previously mentioned. They're already repaying three family taxes on the building. Okay. The total square footage of the house is 3,400 square feet. That's starting from the first floor. It's 1,200 square feet. Second floor. 1,200 square feet. Third floor is 1,000 square feet. Okay. Bedroom. On the first floor is three bedrooms. Second floor is two bedrooms. And the third floor is two bedrooms. And there's already existing baths on each floor as well as kitchen. What's this? And the 1,000 square foot is that an attic? What's the floor to ceiling height? The floor to ceiling height is, I believe, one second. Eight feet, three inches. And let's see, so your violation is locked, only violation is locked, area of put dwelling in it. And the plans are adequate, Mr. Bazzani? Line is ready. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? The morning Madam Chair and members of the board, my name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. And we'd like to go on record to support the project. They had a butter meeting in a meeting with the neighborhood association and it was fully supported by both the Abutters and the Association. Good morning, Chairman, members of the board, Chairwoman, I'm sorry. Karen Foley, Councillor Savi George's office and we're going on support. Rickard. Nice question. What prompted the desire in your part to change structure for your site at the board? I'm just saying you came forward on your own. Could you repeat the... What prompted the application for change structure on your part? Just the existing structure, it's very much functions as a three family. There's two egresses for each. I mean, we live... I understand that. So I get my question is, why didn't you just go along like unfortunately too many people do? What prompted you to seek legal occupancy as a three? If I may answer the question. The first of all based on the record that we have from assessing online, we've been paying three family worst taxis since the house been paying in 1986. We just want one reason as a homeowner in Roxbury, you want to make it record straight. It was just clarifying the record. And also obviously have the three family and may have higher value to our asset as a homeowner. We are just homeowner and so on. Yeah. Anybody here to support this proposal? You just... Oh, I'm sorry I did that. And our position to know if he's an opposition may have a motion. Motion for approval. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Motion carries on the change. However you do need to. Let's sprinkle that building. I just did. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Calling the OA905506101 Heat Street. This is a wrecked a new four-story building with nine apartments on the upper three floors and retail elevator lobby and nine vehicle parking garage on the first floor. Violated Article 59, Section 38. Visibility across corners obstructed. Article 59, Section 18. A multi-family dwelling unit is forbidden news. Article 59, Section 37. Our street parking requirement is insufficient. And Article 59, Section 37. Our street parking design. The size. Name and address. Full the record, please. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Lloyd. My name is Patrick Bejoning. I'm with the status of 160 double street. With me is the architect Phil Burresco. His status of 360-gromfield street. Our client's hospital is in the audience today. The proposal here is 101 heat street. It's nine residential units. With the small commercial use on the first floor with nine parking spaces. The space is dimensionally compliant. Meaning the height is 40 feet. And in this area it's a local industrial zoning sub district. Mission Hill. The floor area ratio is 2.0. Just under that is what being proposed. The lot size is 7,366. And it's a little over 1.99 at 14,717 square feet of living space. The primary use that we're seeking relief from today is the use. The residential use in this area is not allowed. It's a good bit of use. Also we're excited for visibility across the front yard. There is incorrect zoning citation. Which we don't only apply when there's a front yard or side yard requirement. In this zoning sub district there are not the use. The uses for bin. Tell us about the parking requirement. You're proposing nine. Yes. What's required? Nine is required for the residential parking spaces. One space per unit required. The commercial space requirement for this zoning sub district is every 2,000 square feet. Two parking spaces are required. The first floor commercial spaces are called 530 square feet. So a fractional parking space would be required. Because nine is in odd number nine in a fractional amount of the ground amount. Okay. And there's parking on that side of the street on the other side of the street. That doesn't seem to be heavily used. Is there a demand for a retail use in that or is it that you couldn't think of anything else to put there? I don't think there is a demand for it. Our clients would like to run a business out of the first floor. So he's going to keep that for himself. There isn't a tenant in mind for a 500 square foot space. There isn't a large commercial area in that section of the street. The residential use is a bus through the neighborhood. There is a homeowner or a deed for a district. It has been submitted as well as in exchange for a large support for the residential area. And what's this penthouse? There's three units per floor plate. There are all of these floor above the second floor. Second, third and fourth is the same configuration. It's three two-bedroom units of approximately 1,000 square feet, two-bedroom, two-bedroom. And then six three beds, three of the three beds of 1,360 square feet, two beds, and the other three are 1,330 square feet. There's no roof yet proposed. That's correct. Okay. How are the plans for Spasani? Drunk and redwood. Any questions? Before I go to the office, does these homeowner all of them ownership? They will be. We're learning with the exception of the commercial space, of course, that would be retained by the finance. All of the residents will be sold with the deed restrictions. And what is the content of the industry? Essentially to motivate homeowner ship. So the owner occupied residents. I mean, there are some restrictions on that in case of foreclosure and short sales. For financing purposes, but it is a little bit in place. So the line reaches that the owner diesel is there. It is homeowner ship yet. Owner occupied residents. Any other questions from the board? I'll submit a copy of it. Is anybody here just speaking supportive of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, just a guard at the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support. We held a pretty good community process where we had a butters that came out shared their concerns. And by the end of the process had declared their utter support for it. These are director butters right on Bigford Street and on Heath Street. We also went to the community alliance of Mission Hill and received their unanimous support and also NHS came out in support as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Will Poff Webster from City Councilor Metamalley's office representing the back of the hill. We would also like to go on record and support, especially considering the need for home ownership opportunities in Mission Hill. Thank you. Mr. Chair, would you like to go for a call? I'll sign it. The answer comes from the clarity. Councilor Gov. Gov. Thank you. Is anybody here just speaking opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion draw approval with the EPA. Yes, I will. Record. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Motion 909-744-11-Ruggles Street. This is the right-wing new building on a vacant lot. It contains six residential dwelling units and accessory parking in the rear yard. The violation of the Article 50 Section 8. Dwelling units are conditional in the first and basement floors. Article 50 Section 11, the floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 53, arch-free parking requirements is insufficient. An Article 50 Section 54, 12 more dwellings on the same lot. May I just fill the record please? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mark LeCasse. LeCasse, law 75, Arlington Street, Boston Mass. Attorney for the applicant. This is a proposal to construct a new residential building in the vacant parcel. The first photograph in the packet that I've handed to you shows the existing three buildings on the right-hand side is number 9-Ruggles. The brick wall that remains is 11-Ruggles. That's the vacant parcel that we're talking about here today. And then the two buildings on the left are 13 and 15. The entirety of the parcel is a single lot. So we're essentially infilling a building at number 11 where previously a building is built. Obviously a building used to exist. The second photograph for rendering in your packet is the current design plan. This sub-district includes- So this is at the Washington Street end of Ruggles? Yes. Okay. This particular location is located in the neighborhood design reviews sub-district. So we are also subject to that in addition to your usual BPDA design review. As part of that process, this is the current rendering that was presented to the Dudley Square Neighborhood Association, which shows an infilling of the vacant parcel with a brick masonry facade. Very identical to the existing structures and that the addition on the top is metal panel and windows. There was a desire in the community to see something a little more contemporary on the parcel. So we're achieving that with the upper two floors set back from the front parapet. The specific zoning violations presented are a conditional use permit is required for the residential use in the basement. And at the street level because this is in the Dudley Square Economic Development Area. So residential uses on those levels are conditional. The floor area ratio is excessive. The maximum in this district is 2.0. And by infilling this vacant parcel between the other buildings brings it to 2.7. Off street parking and loading is insufficient. We hope that we might be able to get some cars behind the building because there's some space behind these existing buildings. But that was predicated upon obtaining an easement from the abutting property. There's a driveway on the, when you're facing the building on the right hand side. But the pinch point at the rear of our lot line is only 4 feet wide. So without an easement from the abutting property, we're simply not able to get cars back there because we only have 4 feet on our property. We were not successful in getting an easement agreement. So there will be no parking but our refusal letter does include a citation for insufficient parking. Lastly, the two and more dwelling units on one lot is cited. That's a design related issue. And of course, has to do with the fact that this is a single lot of land. And there are already three existing buildings on it. We're just infilling the vacant parcel so that constitutes two and more dwellings on one lot. So that's a conditionally used permit, similarly related to the applicability of the neighborhood design reviews, sub-district, which was cited in the refusal letter. Tell us about that addition. The proposed addition. Tell us about the dimensions on that and what the height ends up being on that portion. So the height of the proposed addition is 54 feet. The maximum in this sub-district is 55. So we're within the height and that's not one of our violations. Each of the units, the basement is a two-bedroom unit. The other units on the upper floors are all about 1,450 square feet front to back. And a total of 8,000, 712 additional square feet of living space. And are there existing tenants in that building? There are existing tenants in the existing buildings, but this is a vacant parcel. So behind that brick wall, you see in the photograph, there's nothing there. So this will infill between the existing buildings. Okay, and what is the proposed bedroom, count, and square foot footage for the units? Yes. So the basement unit is a two-bedroom unit and is 1,458 square feet. The units on levels 1 through 5 are all three-bedroom units with 1,424 square feet on level 1 and levels 2,345, 1,458 square feet. So good sized units. And is this anticipated for rental or so? Rental. The existing buildings by this owner are rental buildings, yes. Okay. How do the plans must design? In terms of the exterior of the two adjacent buildings, is that part of this contract for future and can't go? There was a request of the Dudley-Squear Neighborhood Association along those lines, and there is a commitment by the owner to clean the facades of the existing structures while the new structure is being built. Right, but you're also showing dramatic entrances with coins and... Those are already there, Mr. Bazzani. They're going to be cleaned up. Cleaned up. Yeah. They're going to be upgraded, I hope. What's the distance between the new proposed building and the existing? They're connected. It's just an infill of the existing, missing tooth, if you will. What is the material of the park? The zinc metal panel. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, and we like to go on record to support the project. Right now, it's an empty missing tooth, as Mark mentioned, and by having the new building there, we'll reduce loitering. And the Neighborhood Association also sent a letter of support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Again, who's the developer of this building? The owner is an entity known as GBM Portfolio Owner, but the developer is Helge HELGE Capital. And what else have they done in the city? As I understand it, they own over 500 units of rental housing in the city. May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with the BBVA design. Second, Madam. Do you need them to focus on anything, Mr. Pazani? Uh-huh. Okay. Okay. Is there a second? Is there a second? Second, Madam Chair. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you so much. Calling the last case for 930, calling BLA-864-815-214-Tammer Street. Just to direct a new six-story mixed-use building with retail and parking on the first, and 10 to 2 bedroom apartments and 35 one bedroom apartments in the upper stories. Violation of Article 50 Section 11. FAR is excessive. Article 50 Section 11, the building has excessive. Article 50 Section 11, the radio out is insufficient. Article 50 Section 43, the proposed aftery parking is insufficient. And Article 50 Section 43, the proposed aftery parking has insufficient maneuverability. Name an address for the record please. The password is my only, the business address of 160 Federal Street. Again, my client plus Kimmel is in the audience. To my right is the architect Phil Horasco, with an address of 36 Bromfield Street, and to my left is Andre Porter, with the business address of 4 out of the Sinstreet in George S. The proposal today is 45 residential units, over 10 parking spaces, as well as a approximately 1800 square feet of retail in the first floor on Taber Street and Dudley Square, which is sitting along the corner of Warren Street and Taber Street. This was part of an article 80 process because it's over 20,000 square feet, over 14 units. The zoning relief being sought today as it relates to height, the allowed height near, and many of the dimensions are on the second page of the handout. The height allowed in this area is 55 feet in the proposed building as a height of 69 feet. With through the artful 80 process, and because of the zoning relief being sought, it does trigger an IDP requirement of six units. Part of the mitigation associated with the PPD and recommendation for support was a reduction in AMI instead of the traditional three units being 80% area meaning index at 100% three units, 100% area meaning index. The developer opted to do a lower AMI for two of the units at 60% two at 80% and two at 100%. The additional zoning relief is the employer area ratio, the allowable employer area ratio in this area is two, and we are just around an FAR of five. Similarly, the building, as you can see, on drawing L101, it's a unique lot. It does start at the Foreign Street and traverse down Taber Street with a further projection after about 60 feet coming in from the warrant. The rear yard requirement in this area would be 15 feet with a shallow life section, and in some cases, there's no rear lot to a five foot rear setback. The building program above the first level with the 10 feet in these cases also something we're seeking relief for, the insufficient parking. It is essentially the same program throughout the second floor to the top floor, which would be two better units and five one better units. The one better units range approximately from 650 square feet to 680 square feet with one better unit. Both the two better ones have two bathrooms, and there are one set, it's the same design all the way up, it's 988 square feet, and the other on the other end of the building is 945 square feet. Consistent with or above the minimum requirements suggested for the EDA unit sizes. This is a condo project, so the units, the Fortley units as well as the units within them would be sold for phone ownership, and memorializing the Affordable Housing Agreement. There are also some minor projections and a recent change to the building. We would further projections at the Ant-Hull and Taber Street, they've been tapered back through the Article 8 EVPDA design review process. Okay, tell us about the view on Taber Street, and tell us how that will there be enough maneuverability, because that's a very narrow street, and there's parking on the other side of the street from your entranceway. Will there be enough room to get into that garage, and what does that garage end up looking like? Sir, I just find it as far as... So I'm looking at 8.02, is what I'm looking at. So the Taber Street, the street part of Taber Street is approximately 30 feet wide according to this drawing, with the sidewalk on either side. Right now there is not a sidewalk. Part of the public, the other portion of mitigation is in the board memo for the EDA, there's a close-able paved Taber Street, the street part of Taber Street, as well as improve the sidewalk from more and all the way to Harrison Ave, on the left side of Taber Street. The minimum requirement for publicway is 20 feet, including sidewalks, so that we have 30, so we can keep a stand larger than that, although it is the mid-middle of the arrow street, it is a one-way street. Right. And with the parking being dedicated to the residential use, although it is tighter, the curb cut is designed to comply with the newer BKDA requirements, minimizing curb cuts. And is there a roof deck proposed on this? No roof deck? No. Okay. And Phil, if there's a way to make this, I know that's a parking garage, but if there's a way to make it more open or rather than looking varicated, that would be a great look, because there are other households possibly for development on that street. How are the plans, Mr. Desavers? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here speak in support of this proposal? The Mona Madame Chair and Members of the Board, my name is Jessica Thomas, with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, and we like to go on record to support. There was a robust community process, and the community seems to be excited about the idea of home ownership, opportunities in the building. And the Mona Madame Chair and members of the Board of Minor Affairs are consenting the Department of the Union, and we have a hundred members that are going to work for the City of Boston, where I'm going to support on this project. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval, BKDA design. All those in favor? Right. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're going to take a break, and we can be in at 11.30. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You The Board of Appeal is back in session. Just to remind a please make sure your cell phones are off. And any conversations you need to have a car outside the room. In conformance with the open meeting, this meeting is being live streamed. Please give us new information when you're here speaking either in support or in opposition to a project. We're here to listen and understand what the community and the bodies thoughts are. So please try not to repeat what somebody else has already mentioned. If so if if in fact somebody has already stated your concern just put your name and address on the record. Thank you Madam Chair. I'm going to call the rediscussion for 1130 out there any deferrals or withdrawals? Councillor address. Three dash five, south Whitney and Mission No. You only one that's it. Okay. For the record calling B O A 835 79 2 3 to five, south Whitney street. Name and address for the record, please. Attorney Jeff Drago with an address of 15 broad street. Today we're seeking a deferral. We've been working with the community as well as on advice from the mayor's office. We're very close to resolving this matter. I believe the mayor's office is going to speak on the deferral if possible. How many deferrals have you had so far? One. And what's the need for the deferral? We are working with the reaching agreement as it stands that it asks them to visit the criminalized submission bill tomorrow. To visit the criminalized submission bill with a risk. I believe there is grass that makes the changes to the project which is long mission for residents to be on board. Just so the council is aware we're into June. Is it all? Yep. So let's know that's the reason why sometimes when the stars are not aligned we might need to just go ahead if it's 99.9% there or 90% there or 80% there. So may I have a motion please? Motion for the deferral. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? June 25th. Thank you. Are there any other council or address please? Morning. One for 1030. 343-345 Chelsea Street. Polar ankle on us. Sorry. My fault. I'm sorry. Which would you address again? 343-345 Chelsea Street. Thank you. Will the reckey column be 088-8514-343 to 345 Chelsea Street? Name an address for the rec and please. Good morning. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So advice. So what subject? skeletons.สตเมอะดแ tampoco. Motion carries the date. please. pushing. the date. and I had June 25th. and I had the season. 25th. and I had June 25th. Is you having another case? July 25th are.키 owning. Okay, Ridley. Uh. and I had June mummental. Ignorance crew. $1,000 each. $1,000. Okay, and er, see the test. OK. 2 soda. Members of the Board, Richard Lins, 245 Summars Street, East Boston, we have a petitioner. Same issue, Madam Chair, this was deferred once previously. We are requesting a further referral. We actually have made very good progress with the Director Butter who was opposed to this project. We've made modifications that has satisfied the Director Butter. We just need to update the plan again and have the plans examineer certify the... And then you can... Please. It's our second. All those in favor. Hi. May I oppose the date? Yeah, their date of June, June 25th, 1130. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals and withdrawals? Address, sir. 202 auditing switch street. Will the record following BOA 85465820202ip switch street? Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board, Patrick Gallagher, of Daint Torp, we address the 745 Atlantic at one behalf of the petitioner. Here, seeking the withdrawal for the bindings without precedence and refilux later date after we've had an opportunity to sit down with the BPDA. That had been scheduled to take place this past month. May I have a motion put in now with our members? I have a motion put in. Second. All those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals and withdrawals? Councillor Address. 141. Where's the second street? You got two cases? Yes, bill on zoning. Please, bill. Okay. For the record calling, BOA 863-411-141 West Second Street, BOA, the companion case, BOA 863-415-141 West Second Street. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair and members. Madam Chair, this is George Moran. I'm an attorney for the business address of 350 West probably waiting for self-hosting. This is the second deferral request as the Board may recall. This matter was originally deferred because there is a parallel building code and process that is proceeding with the architectural access board. I'm advised by clients now to anticipate in the judiciary hearing with the AAB sometime in April. Therefore, I believe that one final deferral will allow us to have a decision from the AAB and be able to proceed here with the zoning. Okay. Motion for deferral. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please? Also, the date of June 25th. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? We're going to go back to the 10th 30s. Calling BO8904, 721, 21 to 35 West Second Street. This is directly a six-story building with 55 residential units, one commercial core and shell space, and two spocking spaces on the ground level. The violation is Article 68, Section 33, OSTF, Parking Requiem is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the Florida Ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the height. Requirement is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the usual open space is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the required side-yard setback is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the rear yard setback. Requirement is insufficient. An Article 27, Section 5, this is in the South Boston iPod. Name and address for the record. We're already the Secretary and Madam Chair. I'm the board attorney, Joe Hanley. Director McQuartney Miller, 28 State Street in Boston, with me to my left, is the developers' principal Peter Stalios, the transfer of real estate to my right. He is Cal Culver and from Hallearn, Newt, and Architects. So tell us what's being proposed. Yes, Madam Chair. Just passed out for the board presentation materials with an overview of unique aspects of the property site, as well as zoning compliance for the variance findings. This is an article 80, small project review. And so I've also been closed to Boston Planning and Development Agency's article 80 board memorandum vote of support and recommendation for the zoning that we're seeking, as well as the record of public support. And some of the transit-oriented measures, which were a result of the community outreach and the PDA process. This site, as you'll see, is a unique and appropriate site for the introduction of residential housing at the step of rapid transit. This is about 10,183 square feet. It's now a commercial parking lot, is owned by PNG by the Gillette Company. It is located at the base of West Second and Athens Street towards Dorchester Ave in South Boston's Lower End. Again, just steps away from the MBTA's Broadway train station. If you get the projects, you are a Tony for a couple of those projects across the street, right? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. And so what we've done here is, the zone is an MFR LS zone, which obviously allows the residential. And in looking at the need for not just housing, but the type of housing to support a workforce and a different variety. We have developed what is a relatively efficient sized rental housing program that has real transit measures in teeth in it that are similar to what we've seen with the mayor's new pilot program for compact housing. And so we started this process back in June with a much larger building. The site is a flat iron asymmetrical site, so you're really limited as to what you could park on it by virtue of the dimensions. We started with a high rise program that was about 13 stories and 115 units. As you noted on the other projects I worked on in this immediate vicinity, you have a 14 story hotel, 12 story residential building, of course, that you'll let building, which is above 120 feet, without with a lack of parking that was a lot of units. And so the developer agreed to lower it to what is now a six story, 55 unit building. We also came up with first of its kind in South Boston, a on site vehicle share program, not available only to residents of the building as an amenity. So you'll see by virtue of the site, there's really limited area that we could do a whole lot of parking and we work very closely with the West Broadway Neighborhood Association who's here to speak and support an area neighbors as to how we can provide public open space at the point of the triangular site and also have a small retail ground use that was preferable over a small amount of parking. That combined with the fact that these are rental units, which we know generate less vehicle usage than home ownership of a efficient size within steps to the train. So these are studios and one bedrooms. They are 30 studios, 21 bedrooms and five three bedrooms. So there's no two bedrooms. That's interesting. So the studios and the one bedrooms are about 450 square feet to 720. So they're a little bigger than the compact pilot that the mayor's innovation lab has recently launched. One thing that is similar with that and that has come out of the outreach process and supports the request for the parking variance is we are prohibiting all of our tenants and residents from obtaining neighborhood parking stickers and that's included in the regulatory documents and will be part of the program with BTD. But in addition to that, the developer is also agreed to put that in all of its leases with all of the tenants as a way to assure that it's actually forced. We think by virtue of a self-managed apartment facility, it's a really good opportunity to try out that new pilot program component. The other thing that we've done and you'll see in the plans is we responded to input from the elected officials. Not surprising, there's a lot of concern about a non-park development in South Boston. So we were able to work with Howard Stein Hudson and identify 12 additional on-street parking spaces that can be added for neighborhood parking, not our resident because of course they won't have stickers, but it is for our neighborhood parking. I have a philosophical question with that. If you're a taxpayer, you should have access to parking, to a parking stick, but regardless of you. And I've heard that it's interesting that the city of which this board is representative of actually has a program. No, I know that. I know that. So we're following that, but what private developers can do, you can restrict and at least that you can't have pets, right? You can restrict and at least. So listen, if you want to live somewhere else and have a car, have at it. We also think that when you have 450 square foot units that are in a building like this, so close to the tee and that have the first of its kind, vehicle share program, right, that is an amenity to your rent. In other words, it's similar to, if you had a swimming pool, so you have access to an electric vehicle that you can then use to go to the grocery store. I suppose the demand will really be with those three families if there are families in there. So tell us about these zoning. Besides the parking, you have a number of other violations. Can you speak to them please? So a lot of this is due to the constraints of this so-called flat iron. As you note at the beginning, there was an precedent. This is really something that is unique. So the zoning requirements that we need are the floor area ratio. The MFR allows 1.5 and we're at 4.8. The height is 35 and we're at 70. And if you look at the context around the area, of course you have much higher height in the area, but also the sites that don't have the constraints that we have. The open space, we're pretty proud about this even though we need a variance. Almost half of the site is delivered back to the open space. We have 4,938 square feet with that public park in front as well as the decks and terraces. The code would require 10,800 which is actually bigger than what the site is. And finally, we address the side yard which is a three foot setback by complying, by moving the building to that three foot setback. And we need a rear yard variance which interestingly is through the middle of our site. The way the code works on the triangular site, the rear yard is 100 feet back. Do you have any post roof decks? I'm sorry? Any proposed roof decks? Yes. Yes. One proposed roof decks, yes. And access to the building or to certain units? To the whole building, via an elevator, correct. How are the plants, Mr. Buzzi? Drys are adequate. And I have to compliment you, this is a stronger parking plan than we've seen from years ago. We've had it. With those tea passes. We've had a lot of back and forth over the years. Yeah, because I appreciate all your input. Yeah, because I've been curious to know how those have actually worked. Any questions? What's the affordable component? So we have seven affordable units, four one bedrooms and three studios. Seven out of total. Fifty-five. Yeah, so on site, we're meeting our onsite at 70% AMI. And how is that divided up between the different style units of four one bedrooms and three studios? And then there, throughout the building as well. So you'll see in the board memo in the graph of what they are with a variety of sizes and obviously not stacked. And how does this shared car program work? Is it a dessert vendor? So the developer will essentially fund, owned and manage the vehicles. This has been done in other developments. One of the challenges with Zipcar, for example, is they typically want to be in an open air lot where the public can get access. And for this, we wanted to have it as strictly as an amenity and also a lure to bot two renting in this building. Proximity of the train, the amenity space is also to have access to. And how's more people sign up for us at certain times, a lot? It will be a software platform. So there are two electric vehicles. A software platform where they can online, they can reserve for periods of time, just very similar to Zipcar. But we strict it to solely to tenants of the building. So the maximum number of cars available to 55 units or two. And the car share is to, I should also say that we've also agreed that we will report back to the TD and to the city usage so that they can track it going forward in terms of its usability and tweaks that can be made to the program going forward. Based on your knowledge of similar things, that seems like a property and high demand. I think it's going to be a very attractive amenity. But the lack of parking isn't just respecting tenants of the community process from pure marketing standpoint. Given the location and the size of the units, we're not concerned at all about marketing. But we do think that's going to be a unique amenity for someone to have an all electric vehicle readily available to them to be able to. I understand the problems and limitations of this thinking that this will be like tougher than getting a table at a fancy restaurant. Right? Yeah, I don't know. I mean, that would be a great, I guess, great way. So we worked great feedback to know that to understand it would be. As to whether you need more shared vehicles. So we know that it's interesting. We went through a pretty deep analysis deep dive with the elected officials and the community to try to get a hold of this. And the vehicle share kind of usage is a little bit down due to a ride share and other things like that. But in working with our traffic consultants, it sounds like well, you'll get two vehicles, right? But for 55 efficient sized units in that location, they thought they'd see that as an appropriate number also for future proofing. It's interesting when we permitted the hotel there and the other stuff, Uber didn't even exist at that point. So things change quickly, but. I'm very curious to see how this works out. I'll see. And just in your providing 62 bike storage spots. Yep. And the commercial space have you thought about what that is? The neighborhood has asked us to look at, obviously, neighborhood appropriate spaces. They're interested in the connectivity that this lock presents between A Street and West Broadway. They've asked us also to look at potential work share and other opportunities just to make it be a true neighborhood amenity. We have not marketed nor solicited any proposal at this time. Just to confirm the plans that Mr. Visani has are the plans that reflect any amendments made to the article. A process. We just want to make sure we have the last and final plans. Yes. Yep. Okay. And how are the plans Mr. Visani? To refer. Any other questions for the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellis and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support this has been through the BPDA process. And as part of that, the applicant has agreed as they've mentioned to restrict amendments from getting resident stickers as well as providing to car share spaces internal to the building. We feel that this does address the parking situation. And I think another aspect that makes this sort of parking arrangement necessary is it is sort of an unusual shaped lot. So it would be difficult to accommodate much parking on site. Thank you. Thank you. Madam of the chair, members of the board and I call it on from Councillor Flings office. We support this project to do to the support from the West Broadway neighborhood association and since Vincent's neighborhood association. We and many residents have concerns that they look to address by coding the units in half down to 55 units. Moreover, our biggest concern is that despite being close to Broadway station occupants will still bring their vehicles. But they have working good faith with the neighborhood and civic groups and indicated that this project will coordinate with BPD and contain a restriction in the lease agreement preventing parking speakers for renters. We believe that this restriction is the key for transit oriented development like this. Incluses proximity to MBTA station to work as is intended. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Saby George's office. We go on record in support of this project. Thank you. Good morning. Debra Wright and Wex from the West Broadway neighborhood association. We are in support of this project. We do have some contingencies but I believe those have been addressed in Mr. Handley's presentation. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ashling Care, project manager of the Boston Planning and Developmentation C. I shepherd this one through the article later review process. Following a small project review application which our agency received on October 26th, 2018. Our board voted to approve the project on January 17th, 2019. We are pleased to support this transit oriented development before you this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. I will be absent of the count lodge at Michael Flarety. Councilor Dr. Goon, record in opposition. I would like to thank the council for the work that went into the drafting of article 68. Council is unable to support the project. He is also in opposition just based upon the black up traditional parking that will go along this project and say, in a precedent, in approving a project that would have little to no traditional parking. That being said, the council would like to commend the proponent for working with the community as well as elected officials. But we have to go and record in opposition. Given all that information, may I have a motion please? Motion for approval or continued BPD as under you. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all. Second. Thank you. Following your next case, Colleague Boa 906-535-261 Bolton Street. There is also a companion case, Boa, Z9065-36261 Bolton Street. This is directly new four-story two-family dwelling with two categorized rear deck and roof deck. The violation of article 27 and S6-5 is in the south-western A part. Article 68, Section 8, the Floyd A ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the usable open space is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the front yard is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the side yard is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the rear yard is insufficient. Article 69, Section 29, Oxtree Focking Loading. Requirement is insufficient. And for a building code. Section 9, 70 CMR. Number of egges and access doorway. 1,006.2.1, egress based on an occupant load and common path of egress travel distance. Two exits are exit access doorways required within the means of an egress system, which I'll comply with the provisions of Section 1,006.2 for spaces, including mezzanines, and Section 1,006.3 for stories. Spiral steelways is not a committed means of egress. Also, the Section 9, 780, 1028, exit discharge. 1028.5, the access to a public way, the exit. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. I'm in the George Moran, Senate Committee for Business Adder, and the 350 West Broadway. So I'm also enjoying my client and the property on their Kelly Mahoney. Madam Chair, members, I'd like to begin with the building code at this time of, I'd like to withdraw the application of building code really. I have a motion case. Motion for building code. With denial with our community denial. Okay. All those in favor? All right, bye. Any opposed? Okay. To the merits. Yes, and with respect to that building code relief, obviously, I've been in contact with the architect and the building will be made building code compliant with respect to the two-sided violations. So is that reflected on the plans? Well, it's simply, yes, because the building will still have a spiral stair, as a secondary means of egress, which is permissible so long as the building is sprinkler. It was initially not proposed as a sprinkler. Building hence the violation for the secondary means of egress. So the building with the sprinkler system, that rear spiral staircase will be compliant. Okay. This is an application to erect a four-story, two-family dwelling, 261 Bolton Street in South Boston. This is fairly a small lot, it's an 838 square foot log, but it is a fairly typical size plot for Bolton Street. The building would contain two by-level units. Unit one would be a one-plus bedroom with approximately 843 square feet. Unit two would be a two-bedroom unit of 1,250 square feet. It would be a two-car parking garage at great, and there would be a roof deck as well. The dimensions of the roof deck are 12 by 12, that would be for the exclusive use of unit two. The roof deck would be accessed from the rear porches. The violations are for excessive interior ratio. This is an MFR multifamily residential zone. The maximum MF area of Grisoni is 2.0. This would come in at 3.0. There is a violation attributable to insufficient use of the open space, with the roof deck there would still be a deficiency in terms of the 200 square feet per unit, which is required by code. The front yard setback is essentially a modal. Three foot side yard setbacks are required. This is nearly a zero-lockline building at zero on one side. It will be brought in on the left side of the provide access to public way from secondary egress to discharge and the rear, but as I said, this will also now become a fully square-footed building. There is a minimum area of setback requirement in the district of 20 feet, which becomes 15 feet with the shallow-locked exception. What is being proposed is a four foot rear setback, and finally for two units, if these were the Austrian parking requirement would be three spaces under Article 68, which being proposed is a two-car garage. So, and it looks like your butters have side windows. So, there is enough. What is your side yard setback? A side yard is zero in 1.25 on the left side. There is, on the left side of the building, as one is facing it, there is an easement of record between, which is shared by this property and the property to the left. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Draw your adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayer's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like you on record and support. We did hold an on-site of butters meeting, at which there were no objections raised. This building is consistent both with some of the other buildings that have gone on, on Bolton Street and with, of course, the buildings on, third second street behind it. Thank you. Madam of the chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support. As John mentioned, the no position at the aboutters meeting, and December since neighborhood association has not opposition either. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Karen Foley, Councillor Savijorges office, and would like to go on support of this project. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvon, and we have a second last request for clarity. Just due to the effort that we wanted to draw out from Article 68, the Council, and it will support the part, this part of this particular time, it does recognize that there are projects that do have merit. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval with VBDA design. All right. All right. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B.O.A.915220, 140 Clarence in street. This is a change of occupant. You include a restaurant with takeout, an interior fit-off or Duncan Donuts. The violation, Article 48, Section 7. Takeout, a restaurant is conditional. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Bill Erick. I'm the Chair of the Dermacol Team Biller, 28th Street, Boston. With me, our Sol Solvon, and Eric Lennon, a Watermarked Donut Company, and the one that's in this deal. So, this is a Duncan Donuts. Will the operator have experienced with this offer? Will the operator take out requirements in the city? Yes, ma'am. So it's... They have 32 Duncan Donuts. Currently operating in and around the city of Boston. They've been doing it since 1991. Plenty of years of experience. Just to confirm that. Okay. How are the plans from Civil Dining? Dr. Atbert. Any questions from the board? What's there now? Currently there is a test prep service in the exact location where this is going. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, to celebrate the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record and support. There have been no questions or concerns surrounding this project. Actually, the one concern that came up was already resolved with the gentleman here and it had to do with the theatre production or the theatre company that is upstairs. But at this moment, we have no questions or concerns. Thank you. Madam of the chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support. There were no opposition to these proposals. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Elliot Laffer from the neighborhood association back Bay. This is a replacement for the Duncan Donuts that's around the corner that is going out on the 49th hour gets built. Same operator. And they were very cooperative in any of the questions that we had. And so we're not in opposition. Here. Is anybody in a speaking opposition? Smell about there. Are you going to speak in support too? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. With usual take-off language. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-8-9-4. 695-158 West Canton Street. This is the full guidance here. We modeled the single-family residence, including select structural reframing, includes missing alterations at the rear of the building, an Oreo window bay at the, at the power floor level, and includes next-story exterior deck after rear, includes replacement window on the front of the building, including installation of new windows and doors on the rear of the building, and include excavation of the basement level to a lower elevation and installation of a new groundwater recharge system and a new fire sprinkler system. Violation's Article 32, Section 4. This is in the G-Card Applicability and Article 64, Section 9. Townhouse, Roe House, extensions into the rear yard. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Sean Carlin. I'm with Hollins Construction, 519 Albany Street. And I'd like to start by saying that we have removed the new Oreo bay window from the scope of our project. And additionally, we've removed the replacement window at the front. And here in a seeking relief for a G-Card, we have plans that have been submitted to boss and water ensuer. So you're not requesting the extension, the townhouse, Roe House extension? So we are requesting that extension rather than putting in that Oreo window. We're looking to do a balcony at the rear of the building. We had a butter's meeting and there was no issues with the neighborhood association. Do you have a drawer in the chose that? Sorry. Do you have a drawer in the chose that change? Yes, I believe that that's in the... Why don't you give it to him while we hear from Chris Kim? You're not going to have to know Madam Chair. Members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, Graswara Trust. And for this one, we'd also request a hope that we're sitting in chair again. The plans are before water ensuer and currently under review. Thank you. The lead channel, Ms. Xani is looking at the plans. Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Faceshri with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I did hold in the butter's meeting for this and most people on the street have no issues. Thank you. Madam, the Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flinx Office. The council would like to go on recording support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, we have the council's led Michael Flarey, council to go on recording support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Ms. Xani, have the plans. Drive your item. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. And we're going to hold signature until we get the letter. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following an XK, it's calling B-O-A-906, the 0-0-0-7, 89-119 Canal Street. This is a build out of a new space for Skin Spot New York on the first floor work to include my NADemo, trivia from Massages, 88 compliant restrooms, hot sailing, open sail, new finishes, MEP upgrades and install a new handicap ramp in the reception. The violation, the Article 46, Section 9, Massage Pollars Conditional Use. Name and address, further, I could please. Good morning. My name is Ariadna Colfield. To speak for Ceturna, LV, Boston, Massachusetts. With me today, it's called Mara, Manager of Skames Fab. You know, we're a very location in Boston. And to my left, it's Chris Margar, Representative of our architectural firm. So, please, it's being proposed. We are seeking today, really, from Zoning Code Article 469, it's a conditional use. The proposed project is to build out in the building in the first floor located in this mixed-use residential building in the first floor to include a minor demo treatment in Massages in Chicken Area, two new 88 compliant restrooms, electrical room and storage room. So, this is going to have nine treatment rooms. Yes. And this has a location on Newbury Street, so this is not your first location in the city. That's correct. Actually, Skames Fab already operates nine Skames Alons in the United States. Seven of them are in New York. These would be our second boss. Okay. Excellent. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Plans are out of place. Any questions from the board? Does anybody have your speaking support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I'm with the floor. I'm here in Lanza. We're in office to enable the services. We'd like to go on record and support. We'll be able to put a meeting for this project on January 16th. They also have the support of the downtown association. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak an opposition on this project? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Following VOA 909608, one to 13 Union Street. This is a change of occupancy of a restaurant. So a restaurant will live into Taiman and compete with a capacity from 311 persons to 325 persons. Violation is identical. 45 Section 14. The use is forbidden into Taiman. Use 38. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Dizanzbo. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. In order to represent the applicant for the General Justice's Chair, I would like to honor the operator of the establishment of Waikou, which is the beginning of City Hall building here on the area. You mean City Hall building here on the area? Yes, sir. Tell us the thing proposed. This is a change of view, basically, to allow him to provide live-in to Ken. Ken has been open for approximately a year or so. And was, did not have the appropriate use item 38 application. At the time he opened, he opened without it. We began to go through the process to get him on the board to seek the approval of his use at the site. What does he do? What does live-in detainment at this case mean? Without this application, the only thing he would be able to have would be recorded background music and televisions. In order to have any kind of musical performance, dancing, DJ or AID, that one must first get the zoning for use 738 and then go to the entertainment division. And ask for a license. Of course, you were both in real life. High-building, the downstairs and upstairs? He had right his two levels. And the upstairs is basically used as a function facility phase, primarily up there. In issues we take place, we could be for a function, for example, downstairs. And we might have a person playing guitar or DJ or some sort of standard or occasionally. And what this really does is gives him an even play field with the other establishments. I believe every establishment on your ministry has a live-in detainment license today. And certainly nearby Quincy Market and Hard Rock Cafe, etc. Is there just a one time will this request this for two o'clock? He has two o'clock license presently. We'd be requesting for an entertainment division two o'clock and a pay-in the license. And this is for the non-life and service of food and beverage. And this is to increase capacity by 13 people? 13 people. Okay. Where are the plans for zoning? Drums are accurate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm in the support. Maria Lanza, Ms. Office of the Avalid Services. We'd like to go on record and support the applicant did go through a community process before they opened. And this use is conducive to the area in the ministry and Blackstone Park. So we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you. Madame of the Chairman, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office, the Councillor will also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm in the support. All Sullivan. We'll be asking the council to lodge Michael Flairty to go record support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I'll push for approval. This is in September 5-10. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with that. Provise. Okay. Good luck. Following VOA 9-1-1-1-4-4-9-85 Cambridge Street. This is a replaced 42 feet of chain link fence in front of the house and 24 feet of chain link fence on the left side of the driveway with a 6 foot high red seat of fence. Replace 3 feet wide chain link gate at the front entrance with 3 foot wide red seat of gate and install 14 foot by 6 1 1 2 feet wide sliding gate for the driveway entrance. The violation is Article 2, Section 2-1. The fence is required in front. Yeah, it cannot exceed 4 feet in height. The proposed 6 foot, therefore, is forbidden. Name an address for the record, please. 85 Cambridge Street. My name is Jersey Glob. I'm the owner of the house. Jim Sheen, I'm the architect for Jersey. I'm at 9 Wall Street in Charlestown. So this violation is triggered because it's a 6 foot high, Frank Yard fence. And what's the reason for that? He's on a major artery, Cambridge Street, 80 foot wide street. And he's really in a commercial zone. I mean, he is a house on either side. But a little mad, he's just looking at traffic all day. So the thing is, he's going to be surrounded with a 6 foot high fence on all sides. That's what we like to do, he has to create a small garden with a price and acoustic privacy. I put some pictures in, but... And you can check other options full-foot with plantings or something like that. We've got a chain link fence. I mean, we're here for the height. I thought it was a nice theater fence, which was solid up to about 5 feet, and then opened the last foot, 18 inches. So imagine what he's already done on the side of the property. And this is hard to see because of that bus in the way, but... Is this a base, the base house? Yeah, it's one of the mills, because it's a blue house on the right. And there's yellow house and the bay house and the seven of us. So that fence is going to be banged, smack in front of that enclosed porch then? No, it's different. Yeah, he doesn't have the porch, he will be at the house next door, I believe. Oh, I see, yes, I see that. So I ended up with a 7 foot yard that they used to open space that they could use and have the privacy. So all the other chain link fences that exist on that street there. That's waste. And this is not owner-occupied, there's a tenant in the building. It's a three family family and I leave these in one day. Okay, and what are you doing with the driveway? Is that going to have a fence too? Yeah, we'd like to put a theater fence on a metal frame, which slides behind the fence. Six foot high as well. So there'll be a fence between the parking street. The side is back. Well, this sounds like, okay, how the plans must design? The drawings are adequate. Given the aggressive nature of the street, I think there is not that much character to put a fence with a portion that is visible about it. Whether it's 4405 foot right? You'll go. But that won't make much difference for the acoustic if it's... Are you going to practice that? Aren't you better off with sticking with the 440 fence and doing some strawberry or stuff like that? Well, we're dealing with 70 feet five. We're dealing with 70 feet five. We'll take a four-degenerate. Can you do five as a fright, right? Yes. Okay. Any other questions on the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I still need the two letters. Hold on, hold on. Morning, Madam Chairman. Mr. the board, couldn't lock with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. I'd like to go on record and support of this project in a butter's meeting with Health in January. We have no wishes at this time and given the nature of the street that they live on in the amount of foot traffic and density of traffic, we think this is appropriate. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council or Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval for a five foot fence. Press the five foot fence. So this is a denial for the six foot fence. Down to the six foot fence. I approve of the four foot fence. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Going to the next case, calling BOA 9000-548-65-67-Border Street. Structing new headhouse and roof deck, an exclusive to units five and six. The violation of Article 53 Section 9, the Floyd Air Ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 53 Section 52, the roof structure restrictions. And Article 9 Section 1, extension of an armed conforming use. May I have an address, full of recoup, please? The action of the House of the Year is the board. Richard Lynch, 245-Sunder Street in response. And on behalf of the commissioner would be Eric Sachsen, project architected for an end of the Alfa of the property owner. Madam Chair, this is a similar straightforward proposal for simply a headhouse and roof deck that's being proposed. Despite the violation of the little side of the secretary. Is this a new building or recently approved building? Recently we have building the pre-existing section of building located in pre-acted districts. So they have for be nonconforming. One of the violations that were cited before the air ratio excessive. I would point out that the board that the building permit has issued. I believe it's a derivative occupancy for the building. Renovations have already been issued. The proposal that's before the board is strictly limited to the roof deck. That's being proposed for units five and six and exclusive to those units. We are proposing a headhouse. And I believe the design of the headhouse is intended to be as least if actful to the view history. I provided the board with a registering photo showing what the approved projects along that section of border streets for both bikes once built. You have copper sped village, hot and rear, as well as proposed five-story building immediately adjacent to this property here. We did have an opportunity to present this to the Central Square neighborhood association who voted to support this with this one-proviso. The deck itself, not necessarily the headhouse, be set back. Obviously, at least seven feet from the edge of the building. So the only relief that actually would be necessary would be the article nine or extent the nonconforming use. Is this the white building? Which one is this? One next to it. This one. There is a further rendering showing me finished product. So with respect to article nine, extension of a nonconforming use based upon the proposed headhouse roof top restrictions based upon a headhouse proposal. We would require initially use the product for that. They have site and excessive height, however, I think out of the zoning code, especially article 53, height does not apply to roof top structures provided or not used for habitable space. In this case, strictly a headhouse that accesses the roof top, no habitable space is perfect. And this is not an elevator building, is it? It is not existing six-year-old. Okay, and what size are the decks? 15 by 15. 15 by 15? Okay. How are the plans, Mr. President? It runs right with the exception that on the side, it shows a three foot four deck set back, not the seven foot that you had articulated. I think the seven is the front of the building. Just the front. Just the front, the border street, that was the request. That was the request. Let me get my bag and find the rest. The drawing shows five foot six. So the requirement would be seven in design. Okay, so let me push back 18 inches. But the issue is that even though the deck is pushed back 18 inches, the headhouse is almost inclined with the front elevation. So the reason you can be down to familiarize that? The nature of the building is very narrow. We tried a number of scenarios to move the stairs internally within the units or to move them back. Is it the slope that moves on the headhouse? Yes, and we saw the way on the street. So the back wall that is closest to the roof is high, 4.5 feet. And we had to be the deck raise plus three foot six foot. Yeah, we also had three foot four. Okay, thanks. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm sorry, Mr. Garcia, with the mayor's office on the book or services. We would like to go on record and support during the community process. No concerns for the press about this proposal. Thank you. Afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board, we've heard of a term from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? May I make a motion to grant the relief requested? I've not yet been drawing to show that the edge of the deck is 70 foot back. But the size of the roof deck then becomes 24 or 25 feet less 18 inches, called 23-6 plus its width. And it's width is 15. So it's really 15 by 26, 23 rather than 15 by 20. Was the agreement to do 15 by 15 or simply only to? We should have pushed the housing on the roof to the minute 15. So does it need design to feel or? We'll move it. It says hands a limit to 15 foot width. Which, yes. Let's not diminish the measure of long borders. Right. The width is a long border stream. It's set on a line of the stair. The right deck is 15 feet wide. Left deck is 15 feet wide. The question that comes about is what is the actual deck? May I understand your testimony was of the deck for a 15 by 15? 15 square, yes. I followed it as what I meant was that we agreed that it would be 15 feet wide. That's what it meant. But it's not really. It's the right foot, so it's 15 by 23-6. Yes, 15 by 23 foot, 6-long. Okay. So it's 15. I'm sorry, so it's, so what's the motion approval for? Approval for the deck is set back 7 foot 6. The head house that is, or the minimum drive has to be reduced in terms of the individual height. The wall closest to the border stream is the absolute minimum that has to be for headroom equipment. Does that design for you or not? I'll tell you a one-cup to speak for itself. The act. Okay. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with those providers. Bowling BLA88951225 Porter Street. This is the proposed to combine parcels directly to new five-story eight unit residential building with six parking spaces for compact vehicles located under the building. Violations article 53 section 12 of the Flanagan Ratio is excessive. Article 53 section 12 of the building height is excessive. Article 53 section 12 of the rear yard is insufficient. Article 53 section 56, Austria-Parking is insufficient. The Article 53 section 57, the traffic visibility across the corner lot. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon, Madam. Chairman of the Board, Richard Lins, 245-Sunders, B.D. Spost. We have a decisioner with me as little Shalaphan from the Arkansas team for this project. I would point out to the Board that the project has been reduced in due process. We have provided updated plans to the Board, which have been added to the Spectral Services and stamped by the planned examiner. So the most out-of-the-date plans are before the Board for the project for the University of New York. Proposed originally called for eight units. We are proposing now six units total. So how does that change any of it? Does it change a violation in any way? The fact that it reduces the intensity of the violations, the height is still excessive. The FAR is still consistent with the number of parking in the number of parking spaces. It would still be insufficient. Councilor, just for our position, the architect is not from the architecture team. Sorry, I'm through. The architect. The architect. I got it, but I just want to give you a hand. Yeah, I had a note down as the architectural team, too. The architect. Yep. So this proposal seeks to combine two lots of land, a look at just on the edge of Central Square, Annie Squaston, Jason to the Multicandre tunnel. By way of very brief history, this site back in the 1980s housed a multi-story restaurant that unfortunately was destroyed in the great gas leak of the 80s. That occurred in Squaston, and many may not remember that. What do you think I do? No, the site was actually a little bit more than a container. It was a terrible gas leak out in the 80s that was a lot of building burn. So this site has been made ever since. There's numerous proposals for various items including off-premise sign billboard to be located on the site. This board had not supported. The current proposal would utilize this site strictly for residential use. It is located within the flood zone and our proposal would add six residential units and six parking spaces located at grade. As I mentioned, the original proposal contemplated a five-story building in eight units. We did have a very robust community process with respect to this proposal and through that process we would reduce it to a four-story building with six units. The units are all two bedrooms, two baths, and they range in size from about 1,230 square feet up to about 1,290 square feet to the very generous size two bedroom units. There are two dex proposed. They are accessed from a headhouse as well based upon the height of the building. They are intended to be exclusive to the upper levels only. There is not an elevator in this building. However, there is sufficient access for lift to get up to the first level from the garage space. So access from the garage would be available up to the first living level in the second floor. Now the dex are they for the building or exclusive use of the upper units only. So only within the other units. So elevator, not. By way of relief, this is located in the community commercial district so it is not located in any of the residential sub districts. Multifamily use is allowed so that no variance would be necessary for that. Respect to rear yard because this is a shallow lot. Ten foot would be the required setback because this is a corner. The condition of being treated as a side yard. There is a five foot setback on both sides, both on the London Street and the border street side. Our proposed floater ratio is 2.6. The allowable is 1.0 with the community commercial district that I would submit. This is quite consistent with the density of the surrounding buildings of the commercial square of the commercial district. Proposed height is 4.42 feet. Zoning wise, about 45 feet architecture later is a parapet that is included. The maximum height limit of the community commercial district would be 35 feet so variance would be necessary. Open space would be limited only to the decks and terraces that are on the building. Therefore we believe we could apply a reach for district requirements. Could be square feet per unit so not a very strict requirement on the open space. And ultimately parking requires eight spaces under the 503. We're proposing six and one space per unit. This is intended for home ownership and therefore each unit would be assigned one parking space for the unit sale. We can ask questions. The access to the parking would be from London Street. London. Relatively speaking the less congested side of the city. The existing perfect. These are just for compact cars. We actually adjusted it so that when we reduce down to six units in the number of parking space, we increase three other spaces to full size of three or a month back. How many plans was Zoning? I'm driving the rest of the board. Any questions on the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon and I'm Chair and members of the board. My name is Mrs Garcia with the Mayor's Office of Negotiate Services. Actually this applicant complied with a direct average concerns about the height. They reduce the fifth floor and also reduce the initial proposal. They receive a strong support also from the Civic Association, Marick Central Square and the direct average after the changes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council of Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Any motion please? Both for approval, APD and design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all second. That provides. Calling B087022247 Saratoga Street. This is a raised the existing building in directly four unit residential dwelling with roof tech. Violation is article 53, section 56. The forestry parking is insufficient. Article 53, section 22. Four units is forbidden. Article 53, section 52, roof structure restrictions. Article 53, section 9, the additional lot area. This is no one. Skip that. This is raised the violations have changed. I'm just going to do the violations over. Article 53, section 8. Four units is forbidden. Article 53, section 56. Rstry parking is insufficient. Article 53, section 9. Additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, section 9. The floor area ratio is excessive. Article 53, section 9. Usable open space is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Your name is Jim and I'm Chair. I'm Lord Richmond-Linds, 245 Summars, Speedy Sposton. On behalf of the petitioner with me is Eric Stathor from the Archive Project, along with Ricky Belving is the proposed developer for this site. Chair, by my hand, context this property is located at the foot of the Eagle Hill neighborhood, on Saratoga Street between Putnam and Brook Street. This district is a 3F-2000 district predominantly triple-deckered three-story style buildings on both sides of the block. Our proposal is to demolish the existing two family structure in the proposal for you to building on the site. And is this the building? That would be the building. Okay. So the project would contain all two member units. This is intended for home ownership. The unit sizes range from at the 130 square feet of the smallest to 1160 square feet of the largest. The idea here is to create something that would lead with the architectural standards for the Eagle Hill neighborhood. And one of the letters of support that we've had provided to the board actually says that this project is more very closely with representatives of the Eagle Civil Association to come up with a design that's very consistent with those standards. That would point out that the project started out as a larger project. This was originally a four-story building with a headhouse and a roof deck based upon the comments that we heard not only at the Eagle Hill Civic Association meeting. We originally presented this as the building was too high, but also comments that we heard to direct the butters. The height of this building as well as the original setback was a concern. We went back to the drawing board and revised this proposal to reduce it down to a pre-story building. As it pulled the back of the building back to make it combine with the rear-yard setback of 30 feet. Is basement used on this district for many? It is not. It is not. This would be full walk out to the rear so there is sufficient height. The clear sailing height is 8 feet for the basement. So sufficient room to create livable space at the lower level. This would be your handicap unit. It could be your first reservoir. First, we have a context. Looking at the surrounding neighborhood and trying to keep with some of the architecture, this is very consistent with what you typically would see in the Eagle Hill in some of the details that we've had in this building. Certainly, it captured a lot of what the Eagle neighborhood supports. By way of relief, again, being in a 3F2000 district, multi-family used to be forbidden. So we are proposing a four-unit building which would require variance. The additional lot space for dwelling unit and per dwelling unit would be insipidious as well. As a thousand spur feet is required. I would submit that there are a number of multi-family's. We could this with this district on several lots sideways. With respect to the flurry of ratio, we are proposing a 2.15 FAR. The allowable maximum is 1.0. We could get very consistent with the size of buildings in that particular neighborhood. Our height is now at 3 stories, 34 feet, 8 inches, which is below the 35 foot height limit and consistent with the hybrid requirements of the 3F2000 district. While we're outside of our open space, we're pretty close to the 1200 square foot requirement, which is 300 square feet per unit. I believe with a little tweaking, we could probably get to the 1200 square feet for compliance. By way of parking, again, this is an issue that we did present to both the Eagle of Civic Association and the butters. When we were at the original proposal of four stories, with the headhouse and the roof deck, we asked the neighbors what specifically were the concerns of the height of the building, as well as the depth of the building, two items that we feel that we've adequately addressed by reducing and pulling the building back. We did specifically ask about the number of units in the lack of parking. The indication was those were not chief concerns of the neighborhood. The fact that it's an existing two family, presently with no parking, Article 53 does provide for the exception that only the additional units technically you're proposing required parking. So we are requesting a variance for those. Creating a curb cut on this site would probably do a disservice to the on-street parking conditions that presently exist. And essentially required parking for private ownership as opposed to the public having access to the street would probably make no sense to try to create two parking spaces. Hold on one minute. How are the plans used to design? The plans are adequate. Just for clarification, you're providing accessibility by an internal ramp within the front door. Front door is on-grade. The internal ramp is up to the first floor. Any questions on the board? We've also eliminated the roof deck and we agree with the community that no roof deck will be proposed on the building as well. And the plans don't show a roof deck. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Here's Ms. Garcia with the Mayor's Office on Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and record and support after the applicant may changes based on the concerns from the Director of the Arts, and listen from the floor floor to the only three-story and also the setback with the condition of no roof deck. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Attorney Jesse Schomer of the zoning and permitting law office of Ignante Stereo 401 Edgewater Place in Wakefield. I'm going to represent Alberto Anaya, Loa, Cmingedi, the owners and residents of 249 Saratoga Street, as well as Rebecca Shansky and myself, the owners and residents of 245 Saratoga Street. We represent the Director of the Butter's to this property. I'm speaking to you in opposition with a caveat that we commend the applicant for working with the Director of the Butter's. However, while the changes that the developer has proposed are appreciated, they're only part of the way to what we would need to support this project. And our concerns are based primarily on excessive density, height and massing, as well as the lack of open space, rear yard, invasion of privacy, and cutting off of light and air. I have a letter to file with the board for the record that goes through the specific legal reasons why this project is not satisfied with the legal requirements for zoning variants, for any of the variances they requested because they have not proved a unique condition or hardship or showing that the requested relief is the minimum required. But what we would request at this time for the board is that the board either deny the application with prejudice to allow the applicant to go back to the drawing board and propose a design of the project and a development that's more in keeping with the scale of the neighborhood, which while the applicant did note that there are three family houses in the neighborhood, I urge the board to take a look at the photographs that they submitted, which clearly shows that the property in question is a single family home. It may be currently being used as an illegal to family, but it was built as a single family was built approximately 150 years ago as was my house. It was one of four single family houses, and that's one of the last remaining single family houses in East Foster. How's the URSS, the Greeny Blue House? It's the blue house, and what I can tell the board is that I think it was three years ago, my wife and I bought that property, it was dilapidated in a worse condition as this property. And currently, after spending more on the renovations than we paid to buy the property, it's currently worth approximately 20% more than we paid for it all in. So it is financially viable for them to come in and redo the house without needing to raise it. We've expressed to them that we're willing to work with them on any project that incorporates or saves this house in some way, including expansions of the property. But as it's proposed, the abutters are opposed to it, and we would request that the board either deny it or defer this hearing so that the developer can go back and seek approval from the local civic association board. And I also do have a letter for the record from Deborah Cave, the president of E. Colhill Civic Association in opposition to this. You can submit that to the board. Thank you. Councillor? I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. I'm sorry to have a question. Thank you. Oops. Oh, that it. Oh, that it. Oh, Thank you. Oh, that it. I have a question. I have to have a question. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Give you an all that information. Okay. Hey, Okay. Hi. change Archer from a two-failment to three-failment dwelling and renovate and erect a third-floor addition. The violation is Article 53 Section 9, insufficient additional library per unit. Article 53 Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53 Section 52, a restructure restrictions and addition. Article 53 Section 56, cost-free parking in Lodent and sufficient parking. Name and address for the record please. I'm Dr. Yvonne Chairman of the Board of Richards. I'm from the southern street of the applicant's district. I'm with me as a Vladimir Pinoffsky. I need the owner of the property along with Arthur Chou as the architect of this project. This property is actually located directly across the street from the project we just presented. Again, what it would be able to look at on Sarasoga Street. It's a pre-existing two-family dwelling. The proposal is to change the occupancy from a two-to-three family to do a complete upgrade to the interior and renovation of life safety. As well as an exterior upgrade for the exterior parents of this building. A good point out this building is semi-attached, so it is attached to the other side. It is our intent as we represented to the Eagle Pacific Association to encourage and work with the owner of the jointing property to join with us in the exterior improvements. So then we go down one side of the building, hearing updated with the other side of the building, not appearing in a condition that's similar to ours. We're working through that process now. The units of final decision, unit one was the total 1306 square feet with the extended living space and basement WB apartment to unit one. Unit two is pre-existing at 690 square feet. We're not looking to make any change to respect that program. Unit three would be 117 square feet with a rear addition of this building. If you look at the profile of it, actually the half-story on the top looks like a three-story front. So it would actually expand the third level back, but third and fourth were very direct. Do you have handouts on this? Sorry. Do you have handouts? I do, yes, I'm sorry. Apologize. So we just proposed third unit. Operable. The third number three 817 square feet. Correct. That's you guys. This is proposed for rental or sale? This would be for sale as well. So, again, looking at the three-up 2000 district three families permitted, no relief necessary to change my two families with three families. With respect to the minimum lot size, although we are cited for that, we are entitled to look to the exception of Article 53 that allows for 75% rule where if you need three-fourth of the requirements of the minimum lot size, the three-family would be allowed. So we are requesting relief for that, but I just want to point out that the intent of the code does allow for smaller lot size under the three-fourth rule. We do need the requirements for both for a lot with front yard and rear yard. However, we do require variance for floater ratio as we increase the floor space over the 1.0 limit to 1.39. The height would continue to be compliant at the existing condition. The open space, total open space proposed would be a thousand fifty square feet, which would be an X of the nine square feet required. Again, because we are only proposing to add one additional space, the zoning code would be as us only to seek relief for the additional space for the additional unit. And once again, trying to provide parking here would not be at all feasible, especially having a curb cut to the section of Saratova Street. And once the floor is ceiling height in the basement. And it is a family room, both family room, a utility separate. I have a question. I will call your joint neighbor, whose human fact has discussions with them about the accountability of the treatment front for side as one. We have done this on a number of projects in the neighborhood where the economy of scale is better for them to look at the type of materials that we are using. So it is essentially them paying them cost of materials and a fractional cost of the labor. But it is certainly cheaper from the do if they were to do it with the conjunction with our proposal. Right. Because my memory is a little bit faulty. But there used to be in the zoning code someplace a common. We are doing buildings that were based half of a building that there was an obligation. I remember where that was Jeff. You used to bring that up every once in a while. That was 20 years ago. We had to design guide lines. It is in separate ownership. That is the problem. We have run into this problem a lot. We have done several of these. We ever können deneman. We worked very close to the question mark. I have been silent. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this group? Good afternoon, my name is Chairman, members of the board. This is Garcia Weather Mayor's office. In our services, we would like to go and record and support this. The applicant received a strong support from the abiders and also from the neighborhood association. Thank you. Good afternoon, my name is Chairman, members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The councilor would also like to go and record and support. Is anybody here to speak and opposition? May I have a motion please? May I make a motion to grant the relief request and with a suggestion that the applicant worked very closely with his buddy Mayweather to assure that his continuity would finish. I can see it. All those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries but that provides us. I'm going to call the last case for 1030. Calling BOA 914-596-47 Morris Street. This is a demo and existing structure directly. Three-story three-family residential structure with a private roof deck, red deck on level two. And a finished basement with two parking spaces. Violated atical 27G. This is an E-poss and I-pod. Article 53, section 56. I'll show you parking loading and requirement and sufficient parking. Article 53, section 56.5A. Parking maneuverability. Article 53, section 9, insufficient front yard setback. Article 53, section 9, insufficient rear yard setback. Article 53, section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 53, section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, section 9, insufficient usable from space per unit. And Article 53, section 9, insufficient side yard setback. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair. I'm Mr. the Board. Mark LeCas. LaCasla 75. Erlington Street in Boston. With me to my right is the property owner and developer Mark Savatsky. And to his right is our architect Jason Arnt. This is a proposal to demolish the existing structure which you'll see on the second page. I'm sorry the third page of your handout is the building outlined in green. The first floor is made of cinder block and has been over time a garage and then a retail store. And then you'll see on top of it was added a single floor which is residential. And now the lower floor is also residential. But the proposal is to demolish this existing structure as it is out of character and not very attractive. And construct a new three story contemporary design building with three residential units and two parking spaces at the rear of the property. So walk us through the violations please. So the violations include the lot sizes rather small so they're all dimensional in nature. The additional lot area per dwelling unit is insufficient. The floor area ratio maximum is 1.0 and the proposed is 2.14. But that is entirely consistent with the context of the neighborhood both in terms of size and density. Useable open space requirement is insufficient. The minimum front yard is insufficient but the building lines up with the other structures along the street line. The minimum side yard requirement is 2 foot 6 and what is being provided is 1 foot 6 which we're actually increasing the side yard from its current non conformity. The minimum rear yard is 10 feet and we are providing 4.3. The parking requirement is 2 cars are being 2 parking spaces are being provided but that is insufficient. And those are the violations. So let me just ask you sir, roof deck being proposed on this? Yes, there's roof deck for the top floor unit and then on the rear of the building there's a rear deck provide some open space for the middle level unit. Okay and so to access the post unit one needs to go down a few stairs to get to the living room and then there's an internal staircase to get to the second piece of that. Okay, is there iPod in East Boston? There is, yes sir. I remember the last iPod in East Boston so there's another one? That's not as in depth as the one in the 80s. This one is basically for new construction. There are no changes within the iPod that feels specifically with dimensions or uses. So is this iPod for the entire of East Boston or Southern section? Except for Southern down. So did the last project take it, I guess the last project did not trigger an iPod? It did not, it was a mad rush of filings before the advertisement went out. And just for the recommend, I'm chair, the citation to the iPod for this case is Article 27G. That's actually the old East Boston iPod which was superseded. So the correct citation for the iPod for this case is 2017. I should look at that to see what the triggers are. And the plans are adequate, the same triggers. I do have a question and that is that this is bringing the building as I correct. Yes. How is accessibility achieved? So according to the public, we're required to have the common area accessible. And to alleviate that we will be providing mailboxes and a doorbell at street level. My question is how do I get into the first unit? Am I incorrect in seeing that there's a set of stairs going down? So initially you are entering on grade and going up a number of stairs to get to the first floor, which is raised above grade. And then it will be a two level, two floor level. So the first floor unit is at grade. First, no, it's a couple steps up. Okay, so again, it goes to my question. How do you achieve accessibility? Accessibility to that unit in particular. So I believe the code indicates that we're not required to have an accessible unit and a three family unit. We are required to have an accessible common space, which is the very small three foot, basically, vestibule that allows access into the unit. So the three family unit is a multi family, right? Yes. And so there's malign exception, so as you don't need accessibility, multi family. The accessibility requirement is that, and this is something that we've talked about a number of times going through the bill in code with ISD and AMAV, is the accessibility to the common space program, which is basically the vestibule. And that would be... What's the news? If I'm handicapped visiting somebody there, I only can hang out with them in the vestibule? So the idea would be that you would have... So for example, if you're on the third floor, and you need to go visit somebody who's on the third floor, there would have to be some kind of means of, you know, someone have to help up to that third floor, in particular space. And that's the idea. Is that you're able to reach the occupants to provide help or assistance or communication in that case? And we were not... AABB goes along with that. Yes. And we were not excited for any accessibility. Usually there's a no. No, I'm not excited, but the usual position of ISD is that the... that's the zoning, and the accessibility is really a special code item that gets picked up when you try to get your building from a new congressional office, and I'm just curious. Right. So, I think that's the way I have been seeing... Yeah. Do you have three families that are scared? So, I wouldn't necessarily say scared of it. For example, there's a number of places that have raised first floors for various reasons, and this is a conversation that we've had in the past with both agencies in that case. Because you're inside, and I'm just thinking of this, nothing. So, we have to get into it. I've got it from my own education, just trying to find out who the exception is that allows us to see the... Right. Any other questions? Is anybody here to... What is the access to the move to... It's a private access from a third floor, within the unit. And it's... oh, it's a head house. No, it's a head house. Okay, because the elevation is not showing the head house. It's just not visible from the forest, because it's not visible. The site phone drawing, showing the pedestrian's experience through the sidewalk opposite. I believe we... I believe the submitted drawings do indicate a head house. Okay, maybe the drawings. I'm not sure. That's a... Yeah, sorry. It isn't the background enough to click cut, but there is a head house. The slope is away from the street edge, so basically sloping. Right, right. But the section here, going up to the stair, going up to something. Yeah, right. Is that what we call ghost? No, it's not. Here's a more robust set of plans that actually shows the... Okay. Oh, yes, I can see that in here. See? It's a clear... Thank you. It would have been nice to have a street and see what they just did with the street. Okay. What is the size of the head house? You have this right, Anthony. Yeah. So the head house is purely a strict definition of the head house. Access to the ceiling. Right. Yep. Is anybody here just speaking support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board, which was Garcia with the Mayor's Office of New Yorker Services. Based on the community process, we would like to go and record in support. No concerns, it was expressed in regards to the last poll. And also the existing support from the Maverick Central Support Civic Association. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record in support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? One last question. One last question. This is obviously a contemporary design in the context of traditional neighborhood. Was there any response to that from the neighborhood association? Indeed. This team developer architect have done two similar projects, one at 90 cottage street, which is the sport approved of a similar style, which has been completed. And it's very well received in the neighborhood. And another one at 9, Jeffrey Street, which is also a similar design. And has also been very well received in the neighborhood. And if I may, we have a unanimous letter of support from the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association. And 16 of others that I'd like to submit for the record. This question has been just strictly remembered. Yeah, no, remarkably well received. This is Syria H. Wild because, yeah. Yeah, yes. What is it? So that would be a medal that's a Neal Mell painted. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. All those in favor? Hi, I'm here. Any opposed? Motion carries. We will now take a 10 minute break and we will reconvene at 115. Thank you. 111. Salvatoree, come up and set up the table. You can be ready. Please make sure your cell phones are off. Please take conversations outside of the room. If you are at the point of hearing rediscussions, please tell us why you would defer. What has happened since your deferral? If you did not get a chance to present at the last meeting, tell us what the project is about. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. Before I go into the first case, are there any deferrals or withdrawals? I'm going to call that out one more time for 1130. Okay. Calling the first case for 1130. Calling VOA 900138191 Talbot Avenue. This is direct a 14 unit moderate income, a pop and retail restaurant service, office use, and a ground floor in eight off street parking spaces. The violation is Article 60, Section 19. A multi-family dwelling unit is the bid news. Article 60, Section 20. The height is excessive. Article 60, Section 20. The floor day ratio is excessive. And Article 66, Section 37. Our street parking requirements is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Travis Lee, 60 Ocean Street. This is the top. This is the top. This is the top. Will anybody else have a table be speaking? Yeah. Jacob Taylor, Klein Hornig, 101 Art Street. Travis Anderson. Place Taylor Inc. 100 War in Street. Please call us what's being proposed. Thank you for your time. This project has been deferred at two different ZBA hearings. The first one it was deferred because there was a typo or an error in the first zoning refusal letter. The second deferred was because the ZBA failed to put a public notice in the newspaper. And so we're here the third time if it leads to the charm. The charm. That's right. Okay. So tell us what's being proposed. Thank you. So I'm, my name is Travis Lee and I'm proposing a three story, 14 unit rental housing projects with retail on the ground floor. This building is proposed on a 13,000 foot vacant lot, formerly a gas station. And so the lot's been vacant for 10 plus years and has all sorts of contamination below ground. Of course the project is proposing to clean up the soils with the construction of the new building. The site rests between the commuter rail, the Tabata of commuter rail station and the lease school on Tabata Avenue and doorchester. The units are targeted to families that are making at or below 80% of the area median income. And we're working with mass housing to finance this project. So tell us what the unit breakdown is. Bedroom size and square footage size. Yeah, there's 14 units, four one bedroom unit. The one bedrooms are 675 square feet. There are four studios. Those are 466 square feet and 62 bedrooms, which are 734 square feet. We also have a ground floor group one residence for ADA. And then there's another two bedroom on the ground floor too with the retail in the front. Do you think could ask a question? The drawings that we have updated August of 2018, the least most current drawings that have changes from these drawings. Is that correct? Correct. If this proceedings will definitely work on advancing it with the PDA for design review, but these are where they currently stand. So again, these can't really reflect what you're proposing. Yeah, they do. Thank you. So speak to your violations please. So I'll speak briefly to the violations. We're requesting relief from Article 60 Section 19 to permit the proposed multi-family use. The proposed local retail use is actually allowable as of right. And we believe that that proposed mix of uses is appropriate for the site. What district is this in? It's in the local industrial sub district. It's a lie. Okay. Yeah. It's located next to a residential development that's of similar scale. And it's across the street from a number across Taladav from a number of residential properties as well. So it is surrounded by a number of residential properties. And it's also very close to the Lee School as Travis said. We're also requesting relief under Article 60 Section 20 to allow for a height of approximately 37.5 feet. The applicable height limitation is 35 feet and four stories. And we're also proposing four stories. We're requesting relief. It's three and a half stories. Oh yes. Sorry. Go ahead. We're also requesting relief under Article 60 Section 20 for an FAR of approximately 1.18 and the allowable FAR is 1. And we are requesting to build the project with eight parking spaces. The underlying zoning would require one per unit. And we are proposing the 14 units with eight spaces. And I think the underlying zoning requires two spaces for each thousand square feet of retail and we're proposing approximately 2000 square feet of retail. Did you see a proposal in 2000 square feet for retail? Approximately. Yeah. I think it's 2,200 square feet, 21. Okay. What is the affordable component? So the all of the units will be targeted at 80% of the area median income or below. And so that's currently $1,750 a month for a two better. $7,50 for two bedroom program. Does that mean since you're over 10 years that you're not? That's correct. So if the entire project is deed restricted, which is what I'm proposing, then there would be no IDP requirement. Is that what you're asking, sir? Yeah. How is that guaranteed? I mean, at least for the VIP. You know, it's a good question. So I've been a communications with Tim Davis over at the BPDA. He's the man that manages the IDP. And what he asks for is a commitment letter from the funding organization that outlines the affordability requirements that come with the project. And that's the same in perpetuity as a regular? I believe it's 40 years. I don't know if it's forever. So it could be an expiring use that has been used in several decades. In several decades it could be. So what is the language in the restriction that speaks to that? Well, so the financing comes with a regulatory agreement that's 28 pages long that outlines everything that governs the affordability of the project. And these are rentals. That's correct. So that the lease is calculated. That's right. There's a maximum rent that I can charge on a monthly basis. And for a two-bedroom, for example, at 1750 right now. And for a family of four. For up to a family of four. A family of four and a two-bedroom. That's right. For 1750. All of these limits are posted on the BPDA website. I know, but I'm sure it's a good talk. I know it's good to talk. Sure. And they could change every year as Boston Media and Income increases or decreases, right? And you can't pay off the loan faster. I can pay off the loan whenever I want. Okay. So when you do that, then what happens to the restrictions that are tied to the loan? If I repay all of the debt in full, then I have control over what happens to the property. Right. Yeah. I guess that's part of the direction that I was going. Because it makes great incentive to, in fact, pay off very fast. And then it's put out the market. And they're entirely market with no affordable restrictions. I would just propose that if you dig into the economics, it's very, very difficult to pay off the project. One of the reasons folks pursue various types of patient capital that, for example, mass housing provides, is that it helps the project become viable that otherwise it wouldn't be. But we know you're a smart business puzzle. So, yeah. It's flattering. Not everybody thinks that. Well, we know your project on what is it called? Where do you have one in Newmarket, you know, NASA? Do you have Dorchester Brewing Company? Yes, yes, yes. Well, 35-foot grain silo that somehow you guys approved, I don't know how. Well, I mean, this is the least a new concept to me. So, the Jeff, is this something that's... Yeah, I wouldn't even want to get into a conversation about the affordable when Tim's involved. I mean, it's going to be a good insight. But is this a formula that you've heard of? Yes. Common or... Not common, no. But... Okay. Newton, do you want to make that? So does the BRA board have a policy about this kind of stuff that... Do they have a... If then, calls, you know, no, you don't know. I can't wear that hat. Okay. Could you ask? I can ask. Of course I can ask. Okay. What it briefed? Any other questions? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman, I'm the board. It's the last time with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I have a nut butter speeding for this project. They've also done a lot of work through with the TNT Association, which is very pleased with the final product. So we support, and it's also important to mention that the senior home is very excited about the laundromat conversation we're having at the about his meeting. So we support. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Board, Dustin Gardner, I'm a half-city council president under here. At Campbell's Office, we would like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody else to speak in support? Are you in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record, and tell us briefly what your opposition is based on. Speak up. We're hearing today. The area is already congested. We have the school, we have the teachers coming in, you know, from outside of the community, and plus members of the people who live in the community. If there's a retail space that's coming into play here, it's going to create a lot of traffic already. We have people coming in using a commuter rail that park on the street. You can't park. It's side streets. You can't park on the side streets anymore. There's only eight parking spaces for the units that are going to be available. It's just going to be really congested in that area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in opposition? I may have a motion. I'm going to make a motion to approve with continued BPD design review. And just to pay special attention to that, the DEED, but I'm with you, I think, that it's a financial reasons it makes it reasonable. Excuse me, at this point, looking at a retail and not a restaurant use. We were working closely with the community to figure out what it's going to be. We don't know. It's been empty. It's been empty. It's been empty. Usually for 10 years. And it is contaminated. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. We're back for the VISO. Thank you. Good luck. Your next case calling BOAA2685792 Maple Street. This is a change of hour. It's from a two-family dwelling to a six-family dwelling. The violation of Article 50 Section 28, a multi-family residential unit is forbidden. Article 50 Section 29. Lot of area traditional units is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29, the fluidier ratio is excessive. Article 50 Section 29. The height is excessive. Article 50. The height is excessive. Article 50 Section 29. Usable open spaces in sufficient. Article 50. Section 29. The front yard requirement is insufficient. Article 50 Section 21. The side yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 29, the real yard is insufficient. Article 50 Section 43, our street parking requirement is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the committee, I'm John Fetteman. Drayne O'Dostado of an address of 15 Broad Street, here representing City Realty, George Fetteman, Prince Bulls, and Dean Nelson D'Gone from Studio NLA with the Harpotex in Broadjet. It's actually a couple of clarifications so we're actually seeking to change the occupancy from an existing three family, well, that's what a long form an occupancy shows that is in this print. And it's close to a six family? Two or five. Two or five family project. Okay. We'll be talking to a five family. It's a complete renovation and restoration of the exterior and interior building as well. I'm gonna go into the violations unit, but just a point to note, currently the existing units in the building have 13 bedrooms. That's gonna be reduced to 11 under this new configuration, even more added units. There's right now one of the units has six bedrooms and another one has four along with the existing fourth room. Just to go over quickly, before plans, unit one and unit two proposed 1,60 square foot, two bed, two bath, unit three, 1,032 bed, two bath, unit four, 1,60, two bed, two bath, and then finally unit five, 1,450 square foot, three bed and two bath. The violations that were listed use, although this is areas completely on page two, page three, you can see all the multi-family residential apartment style buildings. It is done for three after proposing NFR. Additional water area would be required to have 7,500 for 2007, 19. FAR, 0.8 is what's allowable, we're 0.85, open space, 650 per dwelling unit, we're at 5.65, rear yard, although it's pre-existing, we're not changing the feet, it's at five feet, two inches, required is 30, and then parking required would be five. We have two existing on-site rear parking spaces in garage, we could fit a few more tandem, given the size of the lot. And we've had a number of meetings, butter meetings, the Maple, Tenon Association, we had two meetings with them as well. There were two violations that were cited that do not apply, height were at 35 feet, that's allowable, three stories were not increasing that at all, and our front yard is 23 feet, seven inches, and we're about to have 20 feet to roll with the requirement there as well. We can pause now if you have any questions. Okay, I have. So essentially front-side and rear yards are all existing. Open side, front-side and rear yards are all existing. FAR, what, I'm sorry, yeah. So point eight is what's allowable is slightly over at point eight five, because we're squaring off the board. And I'm sorry, I think I missed what you said about the parking. So, we five is what would be required under the code. We have two existing, we could add two tandem, but 20 units are counted as additional spots. Oh yeah, reducing the bed will be powerful for all. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Bazaar? Going to add a bit. Okay, any questions from the board? Boy, it's so much better to see those, the space use differently rather than cause of some of the awkwardest positions. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Man of Chair and members of the board. My name is Jessica Thomas, but the mayor's office of neighborhood services, and we'd like to go on record to support. I was able to attend the Abudders meeting, and they also met with the neighborhood association. They've also been actively working with the community and contributed to a garden in the area. There was concerns about trash on the lot, but again, the proponents were, have been in touch with the neighbors in order to address those issues. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Man of the motion, please. I'm going to make a motion to approve with BPEA following the indirect judgment in the design review. Is that a second? Yes, that's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. The calling the OA, 765159139 Walter Street. This is a constructed new two-family town home, Violation, Dotticle 69, Section 9, Laudieria, Ferditional Dwelling Unit is insufficient. Dotticle 69, Section 9, Affloidia, Ratio is excessive. Dotticle 69, A Height Requirement is excessive. Dotticle 69, Section 9, Useable Open Space is insufficient. Dotticle 69, Section 9, A Austria Parking Design, Access Driving and Manoeuvrability. Dotticle 69, Section 29, A Austria Parking and Requirement is insufficient. Dotticle 69, Section 29.5. Dotticle 69, Access Driving and Manoeuvrability. Dotticle 69, Section 9, Location of the Main Entrance. In this residential zoning, just the main entrance shell of a dwelling unit faced the front line. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chairwoman and members of the board, Joseph Lickblow, 50 Congress Street, Boston Mass, representing Norah Declot, the homeowner, who is with me. This parcel sits next to the Walter Street burial ground, which is under the jurisdiction of the Parks Department. Of course, north of that is the Arborietum. The close house was the one that had the fire. Yes, was destroyed by fire in September of 2016. And she proposes to replace her single family with a two family and a two F 5000 zone. More than half of the houses across the street on Walter Street are two families on undersized lots. You have in the handout the most recent plans which went through the community process. And briefly these plans scaled down the size and footprint of the proposed two family. They also preserve. Tell us just what's now the plan. And does Mr. Pazani have the most recent plans? The most recent plans have not been submitted to the BOA, but will be. Well, we can proceed if we have no evidence in front of us. The plan, the most recent plan eliminated one of the zoning violations. And that was the in terms of the front entryway and the height. Other than that, it's the same. Mr. Pazani, you want to address that? The usual procedure is that an autofillaboy just stamp off. ISD has reviewed it and put their stamp on it. We don't have that. And I know they've been deferred, but the Johnny's really should be submitted to ISD for the same plan to determine what they're not today's either an increased violation or a decrease in violation. And I know I may seem administrative, but it's a long way that everybody can keep control of. In that event, I mean, if we can't go forward today, we would have to defer to get those plans to ISD. Well, how long do you think your architect could make those changes? The changes are made. Well, not on the side of the lines. Did he make them on another set? We could have them within, I would say, 48 hours, yes. So the other question is, because this is purely an increased rate of snapple, is there a way Mark fortune will get them back very fast at the moment? Let's get a deferral place. Fasted up. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And Mark, can you negotiate a date for us? Yeah, we can squeeze the man. It's just going to be a month. Another long day. Yeah. Well, we used to those. If they can get everything done, we can get them in March 12th. March 12th at 1130. OK. So again, just so you clear, have your architect make that change? Yeah, it should be initial planning, examiner, having him. Yeah, it should be a bit. OK. Move the outside. Thank you. You got one. What's your awesome plan? It's not a big deal. It's just them at the string. We have to be frank. That's very important. Calling an XK. Calling B-O-A-A-H-7-4-391-608-610-E-S-8-Street. This is to construct a rear addition on existing two-family dwelling. Excavate basement for a new living space in unit one. Construct a new roof deck in a full interior renovation. Violation.ical27S, section five. It's in the South Cross and iPod. An article 68, section eight, decide the ad. It's insufficient. Name an ad just for the wreckage. Please. Name an ad just for the wreckage. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LeCasse, LeCasse Law, 75 Arlington Street, Boston Mass. Atturning for the applicant to my right is J. Dorenzo, the property owner. My left is Nick Landrie, the architect for this project. The proposal here, members of the board, I think is precisely the type of thing that they had in mind when they put the iPod into place in South Cross. And that is to preserve existing structures that are in character of the building, preserve existing densities, preserve existing uses and impacts. And that's what this project does. It's an existing two-family dwelling unit. And it will remain an existing two-family dwelling unit. The proposal is to excavate the basement to provide additional living area for the ground floor unit. So that will be a duplex unit on the ground floor and into the basement. And then the top floor is a separate unit. There's a proposal to add a roof deck exclusive to the top floor unit and preserve the property as an existing two-family dwelling unit. Our zoning issues are applicability of the iPod, which again, I think this is a suitable example of what the iPod was designed to do rather than... Tell us about the other violation as your side yard violation. So the other violation is a side yard insufficiency, which is an existing condition. And we are not doing anything to increase the degree of the existing condition. But rather, it was cited by ISD because in the rear of the property there was a three-season porch, which was removed and that's being turned into additional living area. So two questions. What's the use of the basement and anticipated floor to ceiling height and tell us about the roof deck? So the use of the basement is living space for what is shown on the plans on sheet A001 as unit 1. So the ground floor and the basement is a duplex unit. So the basement area is living area for unit 1. What specifically any bedrooms down there? Yes. And access is... There's direct access on the rear plus an internal stair. And the ceiling height is 8 feet, 8 inches. And tell us about the roof deck? The roof deck is accessible by an internal staircase from unit 2 with a hatch as opposed to a headhouse and is set back. As you can see on sheet A001 elevation, a substantial distance from the front of the street to the far rear of the roof. It looks like it's much longer than a different one after the roof. It's easier to get through those. If you have the space at the top of your staircase to have the, I think they call them coffin-style hatches. Where is it? Solar animations? The red? Yes. Yeah. That's a lot of light in as well. Yeah. How many plans was to design? Drives. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Officer of the neighborhood services. We'd like to unrecord and support. Thank you. And then Chair, members of the board, and the final bears represent in the carpenters union. We want to go and record support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Caledon from Councillor Flink's office, the Councillor would like to go and record a position to this project that were concerns raised at the Abadders meetings on the roof deck, which hasn't been addressed. And also, they get of having neighborhood association is in opposition to this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, my name is Alex Terry. My wife, Dylan and I are director of the letters to this property. I live at 612 East Eighth Street. I submitted comments on Friday, which is board mayor. Can you summarize to us what your opposition is based on? Sure. We raised concerns regarding the rear addition. In specific, the original proposal, which I believe is what's before the board now, includes an exterior staircase. So essentially, the rear addition proposed brought it to the women of the existing structure. And then on top of that, there was an exterior rear staircase that was the second means of egress from unit two. So my letter of Friday mentions we weren't provided with updated revisions, sort of in response to those concerns. Actually, yesterday, paternal cast was nice enough to send along proposals that put the exterior wall on the far side of the staircase down from unit two, essentially interior, well, making interior that second means of egress from unit. Which, one, some of the way to address our concerns, I just want to acknowledge with appreciation, Mr. Grenzot. So some of your concerns have been addressed. What's outstanding? We would certainly defer to the board's position with respect to our rear addition. We just wanted to see as much of the open, usable space in the existing yard preserved. Okay, thank you. The response is as part of the continuing BPDA design review, which I anticipate would be a condition of your approval. The owner is willing to include the enclosure of the rear staircase, which is shown on elevation A300. It's an exterior staircase from the second floor. So there is an alternative to simply enclose that staircase. So it's not visible to the abutters and it's my understanding that they would be amenable to that so we could treat that as an item of design review. I feel one question about that step. For the architect, you have the second means of egress out of that unit through a bedroom. So the door on that bedroom is not going to be locked? No. And usually they don't allow that because there's no way to prevent anybody from lying. There's no way to prevent it. Just be aware that maybe it should be inside the door. With bedrooms, there is no way that you can argue that a tenant will not allow you to store it. If we don't give him the option to walk in, I'm going to put a lot of things in. No, but you know five years from now or you know. That's the usual kind of thing. May I have a motion, please? No, no, no, no, no. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set, but that provides a good luck. Thank you so much. Thank you. Going to the OA, 804-240-686E-5th Street. This is an alligeant existing single failure with an additional story and extend living space. The violation is Article 68, Section 8. The front yard setback is insufficient. Article 27. Yes, Section 5. It's in the South Boston iPod. Article 68, Section 29. The roof structure restricted to the district. Name an address for the record, please. Doug Stefano, 93F Street, and with me is Chad Braves. 686-5th. Julie, it's on your own. Any matter? Okay, so tell us why you were deferred and what's the current situation is. Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. We were in front of the subcommittee last session, and that's why there was some contention from the neighbors or some opposition. So we are here in front of the full board. This project is an addition to an attached single-family home. The graves would like to add some living space both in the front of the building off their kitchen. Above the existing garage, you can see in the photograph. It's on the front of the building. And it also like to rework and enlarge the bedroom that's at the back of the building on the second floor, making it a larger master bedroom suite with a bath. We did have a community meeting. The project was bigger at that time. So we've scaled the project down. What is the current situation? Because you know, that helps us to just talk about what it's currently before us. But it's his street because that just in a certain way muddies the water. Well, currently, like I said, it's a single-family attached with the garage at the front of the building right on the street. And is this the, this is the, yes correct, the one on the right. That's their property, 686. Okay. So that is a garage. And behind that on the second floor, as you can see, in the drawings the kitchen. So since we started, I've now scaled the project down to well under a thousand square feet. So adding approximately six, little over 600 square feet between the front and the back. And what's the usual back space? The space in the front would be a living room, which is off the kitchen. And the back would be just the enlarged master bedroom. We do get sighted for rooftop restriction. The iPod at the time since the project was larger than a thousand. And when we started and front yard setback as the new building is closer than five feet to the street. So with the 600 square foot addition, then, are you not subject to iPod? No, it's a thousand. Is the tricker. So what's left as far as violence? I'm not subject to the rooftop restriction because I'm changing the roof profile of the building as well as front yard setback. How are the plants, Ms. Pazani? The river. Any questions from the board? Can I tell you a specific, so is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I do have a letter to enter into the record. Find me. Please come out. I'm Denise Calo at 688 East Fifth Street. I am in support. They're good neighbors and it's a good plan to thank you. I can mention there were five letters. Sorry. Hello. My name is Karen Hill and I'm at 677 East Fifth. I live directly across the street and would be very excited about this for them. They're wonderful neighbors and I think it's a great plan. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Please put your name and address on the record and representors of elected officials should speak first. Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellis and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record in opposition. At the abouters meeting we did hear concerns from the people immediately attached to the building about essentially being blocked in with an expansion of this building. The buildings are now basically identical as well as concerns about construction management. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Anna Calderon from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on record in opposition to this proposal. The direct sub-order who is right next to it, the attached home, has many concerns on the addition to the property. The city point never has association is also in opposition. Thank you so much. Would you name and address on the record and briefly tell us what your concerns are based on? Christine Dawniou. I own the property with my husband, Christopher Dawniou. We actually own 682 and 684, which are it is a two-family home directly attached to 686. This project is overwhelming to my property. It encompasses my entire eastern exposure, which the architect was unaware of assuming. Concerning his remarks. Can you please, I don't have that. This is. This is. Okay, overwhelmed. Take all of my eastern exposure. It completely shadows my roof on 682, which means I will now have to go up and manually clean that roof off in the winter. It changes the way I get light air. It also is an addition being built on what I was told was a structurally unstable garage. The last project that was done by these homeowners caused massive, it cracked every wall in my house. It opened up holes between both of our foundations. There was no existing firewall, which meant they tore down my kitchen wall. They were between the two units. They worked outside of their permitted hours with their age-fac. They refinished their floors, closed their unit, and went away when I had two minor children in the home. I still have a minor child in the home. Both of my children have special needs, and they live with me. Okay, so. There's a huge disruption. So, sounds like your concerns are on light and air and the past record on construction management. Okay. This is a management issue. Okay. I understand that wanting something is, you know, we all want things. Simply wanting something doesn't mean you get it. Hold on. I've identified two issues, and that covers what your concerns are. Is there anything else? Okay. Maybe a husband can help you out on that. Good afternoon for the record. I'm Christopher Donahue, homeowner, 684, 682, E-s Fifth. I did bring along a couple of photographs. I'd like that would help illustrate my point if I could get them to you. Okay. And is 682 684 a two family? Yes, yes. Okay. And is this a two family also? No. No, it's a single family. Okay. Just to expand on Christine's points, my biggest concern is not only loss of air and sunlight, but as she said, the previous demolition job that he did almost destroyed my house. You mean new information? New information? Yeah. I still don't know specifically what he's planning to do with the backyard. We didn't know about that until the abouter's meeting. He wasn't honest with us. We were in there knowing that he wanted to expand out front. And he says, oh, by the way, we're going to go all back, too. So I still am unclear on exactly what they want, which is why I gave you photographs of my backyard. Excellent. Thank you. And again, the houses are attached. I know it's not new information right now, but I don't trust him or Azacatech. I'm not going to bring my house down to the ground, but that's proposal. Thank you. And again, with lifelong south Boston residents, we made a conscious choice to raise our family here. This isn't something we ever expected out to deal with. Thank you. Thank you. There's someone else here. Hello. My name is Kristen McCosh. I'm here as a neighbor and not in my role as the city's disability commissioner. I'd like to express my strong opposition to this project for many reasons. Not only will we block all the sun and light, as was mentioned, children live in this house who have special needs. This project is not safe, in my opinion, as far as I saw the damage to the last project that was done. The house is over 150 years old. It's attached. I've lived through these projects twice in my own lived experience with it. Growing up as a lifelong resident of south Boston, in our family's home on El Street, an attached home, a neighbor built in addition onto our home. He built onto our roof and opened up holes. It rained in our home for the rest of my life. I've been attached to buildings that have a different structure, a different setup than non-attached buildings. Secondly, my neighbor where I live now on East 6th Street was approved by this board two years ago when I spoke out in opposition to extend up and back. I now have lost all my sunlight and I have a wall facing my yard. I used to have a small bit of open space in a very densely packed neighborhood where I grew up as a third generation resident. I now have a wall in my yard. I don't even use the yard anymore. I don't have children, but I do know this family has children. I would oppose it on those grounds and also on the grounds that I don't understand what the neighborhood is turning into when we have people building on ancient buildings, which drive families out. How can a family with children live in a house like this? I don't have children. Like I said, I can deal with it. I don't see how this family is going to deal with it. I don't know why everything I've seen today has been approved. When people are speaking out when it's their life and their safety and the future of Boston. So I was strongly opposed on all those grounds and happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Good evening, everybody else. It's here to speak in opposition on this project. Okay. So, please, can you tell us what exactly happened in your history, Ian? Sure. I think we've been characterized in this is now the third meeting. No, just give me facts. I mean, I'm not just giving you facts. The facts are that in the course of renovating our home, we purchased it 12 years ago. It hadn't been touched in 40 years and it was unlivable. And we tried to infect the property that we love now. And in the course of construction, it is messy. There are things that happen. We took down an unsafe chimney that we can show you that that was the cause when that was removed. That chimney, there was a portion of there while that was broken. We did everything we could to make them whole on that. We asked our contractor to take care of everything that they asked for. And we, you know, there were times when there were miscommunications. We tried to communicate as fully and as clearly as we could throughout every step. But as neighbors, they are not welcome to us as neighbors. So we feel like we're really constrained. We don't have, we don't have a lot of options with this home, but we want to stay there. We want to make it the way that we would like to have it. I've even, I wrote them a letter prior to the sidewalk meeting asking them if they have any wishes to develop on their side of the property to match ours. That we would pause our plans that we could work with them. And I received no response only, you know, responses at the meetings. So are you doing a rear addition? Yes, we are. That was part of the sidewalk meeting that we, and the plans that we had proposed to the commission. Okay. And you submitted your letters of support that I'm having while I 14 did you say? No, we had submitted five at the prior meeting one today. And one person had had not submitted a letter but has appeared twice for us. Okay. Who is our directed butter on the other side? Okay. So given this, given this information, I may have a mouthful of this. Motion of an I will have prejudice. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Any other opposition? So this has been not been denied without prejudice. This means that you can come back with a different proposal. Not exactly the same. Okay. And if you want to come back with the same proposal. Yeah, so. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Next case. Calling B.O.A. 835-144-87E. This is a full-gotten tier of innovation of existing tree family dwelling and extend living space to the basement. Violation 27S-5. This is in the South Boston iPod. Name an address for the record please. We're going to have to do in the state of New England make our first in Miller on the 8th state street. Boston had it with the victims of the war. The owner is a very sad madam chair. This is strictly an iPod. There's no changes to the envelope of the building. The existing assessing when ISD shows this building as a three unit, three bedrooms in each unit. So you want to extend the use into the basement? It should say legalize when we took over the property. This the basement had been in use so we're seeking to legalize as a three family. It is a three family now. We're seeking it's only iPod there's no zoning and we're seeking to legalize it into the basement also. So tell us about that basement. So we basically want to know floor to ceiling height. We want to know what if there's bedrooms down there and if the utilities are separate. So the utilities are separate. The ceiling height is 8 feet. The downstays it's a kitchen and bathrooms and all the utilities. So I'm sorry. So if it's kitchens and bathrooms in the basement, kitchen and bath. Okay so and it's connected to the first floor unit. Yes. So is there a kitchen in the first floor unit? No. No. No. Kitchens in the basement. Kitchens in the basement? It's a very large unit. The first floor unit, the all three units are very large. The other two units are approximately 1,300 feet. This is approximately 26.5, 630 feet. Okay so this is approximately 295 feet. So is there a kitchen and bathroom? A kitchen and bathroom in the basement. So in the basement, kitchen and bathroom, dining, slash living upstairs there. On the first floor, there's one, two, three bedrooms and additional open family space. Okay. The utilities are separated from the unit. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support the proponent initially proposed three five bedroom units. And people were very unhappy with that number of bedrooms. At a future meeting they reduced it to three four bedroom units. People felt that the four bedrooms were very similar to the five bedrooms. And would in fact be used as five bedrooms. At that point the developer did agree to reduce it to three three bedroom units, which I believe are the plans the board has today. We did hold a meeting actually just last night as a follow-up to a meeting we had last week. Several direct debuts did attend and said they were comfortable with the new design of the three bedroom units because it will involve taking down various walls and things and creating larger living rooms in some situations. So they will in fact be used as three bedroom units. So at this point we are in support due to the work of the developer on that point. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Mara Lotha, members of the board and Calderon from Councillor Flings office. We oppose this project to the overwhelming opposition and multiple up-odders meetings regarding the number of bathrooms. Moreover residents and members of the city point able to association express concerns about their use of short form to the work in the interim. We understand they have come down in the number of bathrooms at the meeting last night, but neighbors continue to have significant concerns regarding the community process. Thank you. Thank you. So you've decreased the bedroom. So essentially this is a these are three bedroom units. And all three bedroom units. I think you're only going to involve now. I think you're going to involve projects since the last of our own. But as it when the owners took over this property it was three five bedroom units with the basement being used. And so they were a little naive and unsophisticated. I think that's how to deal with the whole project. So we've been involved too. But I don't think this opposition might. So my associates have said last night that the tenants were saying this is what you asked for. And this is what we're doing. So it's been reduced to nine bedrooms from 15. In the building. And the drawings of the design you have for flood gas. Yes. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Following the next two cases. Calling BO85919481 White Street. Companion case BO870470. I'm sorry. 85919579 White Street. Companion case BO855919481 White Street. Get along in the day here. This is for 79 White Street. This is confirmed. It's a single family and change of the number one to two family dwelling and renovated in a direction. The violation of Article 53, Section 56. I'll speak back and learn, none is proposed in sufficient parking. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, number of allowed stories and exceeded two and a half is the max. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. 350 square unit. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient area setback. Article 53, Section 52, roof structure restriction. This is for 81 White. This is confirmed. I'll see as a single family and change that from one to a two family dwelling, renovate and a recommendation. The violation of Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Point 8, Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space per unit. 350 square foot unit. Required. Article 53, Section 9, number of allowed stories and exceeded two and a half feet is the max. Article 53, Section 52, roof structure restriction. It's an Article 53, Section 56, insufficient parking, none is proposed. I may have an address for the right to please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Richard, there's 245 Sumner Street e-spots on behalf of the petitioner with me. My client, Vladivarik Tenoffsky, is the owner of the property in 79 in 81 White Street. This proposal is located in the Eagle Hill section of e-spots, then as the Secretary indicated. This is a companion proposal for two existing single family dwellings, which are semi-attached. These are pre-existing non-conforming structures. Our proposal is to change the occupancy of each of these from a single family to a two family dwelling with a vertical addition. This will also involve a substantial rehabilitation of the existing interior of these buildings, based upon the fact that these are connected to Tenoff to be used for home ownership, as kind of an amnesium. It was a likely also required upgrades to the light-based basis for it. We have an opportunity to present this to the Eagle Hill Civic Association, as well as a very well-attended debutters meeting in which the neighborhood is generally receptive to the proposal. I will run through the zoning violations briefly, but with respect to the unit sizes, each of these will be duplex units where a living space will be located both the base and the first level for the first unit, as well as the second and the new third level for the upper units. The bedroom size and range are from around a two to a three-plus. The unit sizes are anywhere from about 841 square feet, up to about 922 square feet, with existing conditions of being recognized. By way of variances, this is allowed in the two F2000 districts, so the use for two family semi-attached would be permitted. With respect to the minimum lot size, we were not excited to permit them a lot size. Each of these lots are at least over a thousand square feet. The minimum lot size in the district is 2000 square feet. The reason we move forward with the Board today is that we requested that ISD site that violations in order to properly notice this. We did have a good deal of that with the examiner, who indicated that this particular violation is not necessary based upon his interpretation of the code. I don't know if we can argue with further that. With respect to that, we did request relief for it. However, it was not cited by ISD. With respect to the footier ratio, 0.8 is the maximum allowable limit by Article 53. We are 1.75 proposed. The number of stories, although we are beneath the height limit of 35 feet, the number of stories from this 2.5 UBS pre-stories, and in the open space requirement for the new units being proposed would be insufficient. Because there's existing two dwelling units already with no parking, we do vires only provide parking for the two units that were traditionally proposed in Article 53. We are able to provide two parking spaces to the left of the building, and we would make those spaces available to the building itself to the entire four units that are being proposed. So, based upon how the market works with respect to this, the current development, we would assign those spaces to one of those four units. Each space to one of the two units. Is there a room structure proposed? There is no room structure proposed this morning. Now, is that the request of the Eagle Health Civic Association? How are the plans with Spasani? The question I have is that the drives are either dated May 1 or June 1, 2018, and these drives adequately reflect. They do. I have to say that that's how long this process has taken to get through to the community process. So there has been something that you can't consider? No, there's no changes. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody had to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Hesuzgar, say, with the mayor's office on the local services, we would like to go and record the support. The applicant completed the community process, and they received a strong support from the Director of Arts and also from the Eagle Health Civic Association. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ricardo Patrón, from the Office of City Council of Lidia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? We have a motion, please. I have to make a motion to prove both projects. Basically all the changes are internal. So no BPDF. No, no, no. Actually, there's a directing addition. Then with BPDF, is anybody here? Thank you. What I do now, is this now the normal process that takes seven almost eight months to go from May to then drives us to May to the resolution. I don't know if I want to say that on camera, but I typically advise that expect a six-month window for the time you file plans or the time you actually get through. We were on the agenda for the last hearing based upon the notice issue we did before. So about five months is about the time. And again, that's not. Did the holidays disrupt your process in any way? No, not necessarily. And I think it is because of the community process, the involved community process that we do have. It's just the timing of when an advisory meeting can occur, as well as when the civic association meets. And then civic associations, at this point now, will not vote until the system is the abouters meeting that occurred. You cannot have about a abouters meeting in favor of refusal letter. The process just will continue, but it is what it is. Well, it also gets to a further question. Are the community meetings now restricted only once a month? Are they meeting more often? Well, I could speak through this boss. And most community groups meet once a month with the exception of the Jepers-Bundi and the association. It has a subcommittee meeting additionally each month, but there's no voting that occurs that day. So there's a vetting at the community, at the subcommittee level, before it goes to the full board. But no vote can occur until the refusal letter gets used until the abouters meeting is occurred. Okay. So there's a vote. Thanks for reminding me. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We are on sector board. As case for 1130, Colin B.O.A. 870, 470, 2 Brigham Street. This is a rectate fourth floor addition in deck for unit three. Violation, Article 5369. The floor of the air ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The height is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The side yard is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 52. The roof structure restrictions. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Honours. I'm the Mayor of the town chair under the board, Richard Lins. 245 Somershweed East Bossa on behalf of the commissioner. With me Doug Steppenoff, the architect for the project. Also with me is Dan Jacobson, the owner of the home with his companion, Chang Hong. Stay on the homeowners and residents of 2 Brigham Street, which is before the board, on a further referral. The last time we were before this board, there was a 6-member board. We elected to take the deferral. We do understand that there is some controversy with respect to this proposal. Notwithstanding the fact that it involves, on a first blush, a simple addition of the building from three stories up to four stories. This is a preexisting non-conforming structure dimensionally, but a lot of things are very far. I'm sorry, first let's say we open our two families. This is a three family. This is a three family, okay. So informing use in the three F-2000 district and a non-conforming structure based upon a number of the dimensional issues that presently exist. I provided the board with some context photos of the existing conditions on Brigham Street. Brigham Street actually has six properties only. It is the one street that probably will have nothing ever put in front of it. There's park space and park land before the harbor. So Brigham Street enjoys some of the better views in the response of neighborhoods. The proposal by Mr. Jacobson involves a vertical addition to expand the third level of his existing unit. He owns and lives on the third level. This is a rental building where the two other units are also rented out. Mr. Jacobson's proposal would result in the additional floor space to allow for hopefully a growing family. He's lived in East Boston now for six years and it tends to stay there on Brigham Street. And so this is the white building? This is the white building for us. And the butter has the brick building next to it. They have an additional floor. They have a four-story building which we understand predates the Boston zoning amendment to East Boston Firework Day 3, which is 1993. So that condition has existed since the last zoning day in East Boston. I would point out if you look at the context of Brigham Street as well. The building to the far right, which is six Brigham Street also is a four-story building. Immediately to the right of the proposed project has a headhouse, which is built with the recently built with a headhouse. So our proposal is to fill in that area in between the headhouse and the three Brigham as well as to go to the exact same height of the existing building at one Brigham Street. So you would match the 46 feet? That is correct. I don't know what you're aware of this one. The street Brigham was before us. I did not get it out, and I was aware that the street Brigham came before the board for relief. And the issue that was before us at that time was the fact that the headhouse. I believe they can't speak to the project, but you can talk to the director. This is reminding myself that. Yeah. Because we did decide visits on the street Brigham Street. You are too great. So part of the proposal would also include a result of the improvement of the exterior facade, both the front and the back. I can let Mr. Steppenoff talk a little bit about what the idea is behind addressing some of the concerns. I do want to sort of preface Mr. Steppenoff's comments that this project has been around the neighborhood for some time. I'm sure you'll hear from a butters and neighbors as to the frustration with this process. This is, as I said, much less complicated than some of the proposals. I presented this board over the years, but very, very involved with respect to the passions on both sides. I wouldn't point out that while there is objections and opposition from a butters and neighbors, I do have direct aboutters who do support this proposal. I've also provided the board with a list of 68 names, including letters and signature of people who were showing the plans. They live within a 300 foot radius of this site, and they indicated an express support, strong support, for Mr. Jacobson's proposal here. So one of the things that we want to point out is that while you will hear opposition, there is support for this as well. Last at the last meeting, we did have four members of the neighborhood also here to speak and support. Unfortunately, we had to defer at that time, and they were not able to make it today, but we do have letters of support for them that we've submitted. My way of relief, this is, as I said, a preexisting non-conforming structure. The required lot area would be 3,000 square feet. The existing condition is 1,440 square feet. No relief would be necessary since we're not changing the occupancy. We're remaining as a three unit building. The lot width is at 20 feet presently. No change as well, so no relief necessary. In the side yard, although we are attached on both sides, with respect to the addition of being proposed, we probably would require the relief on the right side where there is no addition just to headhouse for the number of three property. We've already had no change, no change, with respect to the addition that we're proposing to the modal existing setback would not require any relief. With respect to rear yard, our proposed condition, and I'll let Doug talk a little about that. I think we've talked about making some modifications back there. Because this is a shallow lot, we would only require a 10 foot setback in the rear. The building is presently non-conforming when it comes to the rear yard setback. We would point out that root street is a public way, and I think code does allow for and intent to allow for through lot modal setback for rear yards. So in this particular case, a rear yard setback of modal would be appropriate for that side of the rear portion of the property. The total height of the building would be at 47 feet, 3 inches, with the architectural detail. The maximum height is 35 feet, but I want to speak a little bit about the height, and I want to point out to the board the definition of building height in Article 2A of the Boston Zoning Code talks about exceptions under the code. If you do have a building that adjoins your building that has a height that's an excess of the allowable height limit in the district, you are entitled to have an exemption under the height limit to allow you to go a bit higher than what the height limit would otherwise allow. I would submit that we're still seeking relief for the height, but I want the board to be aware that there is a provision under the code that allows for an exception under the height rule, where the triangulation of the distance between the existing property to the left and three properties to the right. I would allow you to draw the line and have a higher height limit than would otherwise be allowed for in the district. So that's one of the rules. And is there a rule structure? Well, the rule structure would be the addition with the deck that's on the front that no deck being proposed above. And what's the size of that front deck? The deck is approximately 20 feet wide and 8 plus feet deep. So what's that back the addition? I'm trying to, Mr. Bazzani, I did that site visit to the three-barrelet, which is if you're looking at the front, it's the one foot of the meter, it's the right. So three-bigger would be the right of this building? Yes, correct. And the issue there was the head house, or some other reasons going out in the club. And part of this is because I read the drawings that are rendering, is to change the color of the salsa matches. You're correct. You'd like to remove the stucco and bring the brick back so the whole row house looks more uniform, as well as on the rear. How do you plan to design the right direction? I mean, add it to the shoulders right there. Okay. I would point out one more thing, Madam Chair. This is in an NDOD neighbor design overlay because of the fact that we are requested relief, we anticipate design review by the BPA anyhow, so that would be just an additional layer for review for the BPA. And this is not in floodplain or anything. I hope this one is not. This is a little bit of an old reservation. Yes. Nice view. Nice view. Okay. No more questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? And now just a reminder, give us new information when it's your turn to speak. And representatives of elected official speak first, okay? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the Board. I'm sorry, Madam Chair, I want to see how the mayor's office on the local services. After a solo of the community process, this case is kind of special in the Jefferson area to the world from view. And whether when they have support from some of the barriers on the bridge on the street, there is also an opposition from the virus on the high disability on the Webster Street. This project was bought by the Civic Association, Jeffries Point, back in 2016 and it was bought down with 40 votes in opposition and one in support. I understand that applicant was working also with some of the other sub-hours. But at this point, we would like to recommend to continue working with the community and try to obtain more support and present another project in front of the Sonny Board of the House. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Ricardo Patrón from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. At the request of the Jeffries Point Neighborhood Association, the council would like to request that this project be deferred so that a compromise can be reached with the abutters. But if the proponent does choose to move forward, she would like to go on record in opposition. I'm Chair, members of the Board of all, Sullivan. We have the council lodge, Michael Flarey, echoing the sentiments of Councillor Edwards' office, Councillor Dornell in opposition. Good afternoon, Karen, former Councillor Saby George's office. We echo the sentiments of Councillor Edwards' office, as for denial, and if not, we will oppose the project. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. That was the reason, as they say, we would like to stand on our original vote, but if that cannot be considered due to aging, we are requesting to throw. Thank you so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, my name is Ron Stoyer. I'm at 183 Webster Street East Cross and right behind this project. This project has been on, actually, this is the sixth time we've been here. It's been continued on and on. In any case, most of the people that they've put are, I would, the people that I've talked to, should, are against this project. So tell us, tell us because, as in a matter, what is your opposition based on? First of all, we're being walled in. We're being walled in by this building. Okay. And by this extra building. But as Mr. Bazzani suggested, three brigam is very much an issue here. I just, I have focus on this project. Only because it's, like I said, only because Madam Chairwoman on the, they're talking about three brigam as a precedent. This board told three brigam to pull down that hedge. Three brigam then went spearquired as our regular decision. And then when we tried it to be, they withdrew. The zoning, excuse me, IST told them gave them a condition-use permit. But they were supposed to bring that head out, if they wanted to change their head out, they were supposed to bring it back here. They haven't done it. So we've got, we're exploring our options on this. But if you look at the second last- Please, just talk to us about two, okay? I am, I'm sorry. You know what I'm saying is there is no precedent. These other two buildings on either end, were done long before any zoning and massachusetts in the city of Boston. All the other buildings, when they came before here, asked for three stories. Number five was a fake ed lock. When the older building had burned down, they asked for three stories. Number three asked for three stories. Not four stories, and then went ahead and built that head out. So all I'm telling you is that the here, the precedent on brigam street is to reduce the volume, to reduce the height. The following four brigam, when he renovated his house, took down his head out. So right now we have four buildings, which are three stories, but Mr. Jacobson wants to change that. But what I would suggest to you, you are honest, is that absolutely no precedent for it. He had a beautiful two apartment house with two floors in each. He made it into three plus a studio as far as I can understand. And I was complaining that it doesn't have enough room. So now, so as far as I can just summarize what you just said, you talked about the concern about being walled in and the precedent. Okay, thank you. Next person. Hi, my name is Dan Bailey. I live at 177 Webster Street. Also a director of butter to the rear of this two brigam. I'd like to start by submitting a petition signed by 94 fighters in red. At this moment in time, we are focused on this. Just tell us what you concern is based on. So I'll let go of some of the concerns raised by my answer. Give us new information, please. So this will negatively impact about 36 units of housing along Webster Street by blocking access to light air and views. At the same time, I think it's important to note that this proposal doesn't offer any benefit to the city. It doesn't even create a new unit of housing. It doesn't further the city's planning goals in any ways. If we just stick to the facts here, there's really no compelling reason to offer zoning relief in this case. Two brigam is already non-conforming as was noted. The FAR is more than twice what's allowed by current zoning right now. And of course, the owner has no right to expand on this back of harmony, which is why we're here. Attorney Wens noted that there was perhaps some provision in the base code that allows for a drawing angle of line from neighboring buildings that are higher. But in fact, one of the reasons we're here is because Article 53 of the East Boston zoning code, which takes precedence over the base code. Section 52. It actually doesn't. They work together. Okay. Where they disagree, at least it says, in Article 53 of the East Boston. It forbids vertical additions on residential structures in the neighborhood. And in granting relief from this particular provision of preventing vertical additions. It asks the board to consider whether the architectural character of the immediate vicinity will be damaged. And I think it's clear that it will. So for context, two brings on a hillside overlooking the harbor as you've seen you've been to the site. And within two rows of back-to-back bow fronts, which were built in the 1840s as a unified development, which makes them among the oldest housing in East Boston. And the survives in among the oldest. Okay, so hold on. So I have the new information you've given me is basically light air and views as you're concerned. Yes. These are also historic structures. Okay. And I think it's important that we recognize the historic relationship between the Brigham Street row houses and the Webster Street row houses, which were built at the same time. And they were designed so that the Webster Street row houses were shorter than the Webster ones to allow light air and views, which was a sensible design at that time. It's a sensible design today. It's also actually codified in Article 3 as well, which says that building elements on a site shall generally step down in height toward the water's edge. It's located as we noted in the name of design overlay district. And again, again, the intent of Article 53 is to protect historic and traditional design and relationships among buildings on their sites. And the traditional configuration of Brigham Street is a uniform height of three stories, which remains the predominant height today. The fourth fort penthouse of one Brigham was built in 1980s. It's not historic. The intent of the code is not to preserve and expand on additions from these. It's to protect the traditional configuration of buildings on the site. And in decisions on Brigham Street in the past five years, this board has upheld this interpretation of the code over and over again. New construction at 3 and 5 Brigham Street were both approved at three stories. And as you're aware, just last year, the fourth floor headhouse at 3 Brigham Street was ordered to be removed by this board. Thank you. Thanks. So, give us new information after you put your name and address on the record. Otherwise, just put your name and address. Madam Chairman, members of the board. My name is Dave Connelly. I'm a Director of Butter to 2 Brigham Street. I live in a garden level condo at 185 Webster Street with my partner Stephanie and our two children. I know you're going to come you off, but I had three hours to prepare this waiting. So, let me just get the gist of it out. One of the main reasons we moved into our neighborhood and into our home was because of the direct sunlight and light and air that it afforded us. We used to rent in Charlestown and we didn't have that. So, it was a primary concern of ours when we bought our property. Since then, a new building has been erected on a vacant lot at 5 Brigham Street. We didn't oppose that. They requested three stories. It was within the common code and size and shape of the neighboring buildings. And we said, hey, if that was our property, we would want to build as well. Same thing happened at 3 Brigham Street. Now, 2 Brigham Street is trying to add a fourth floor because enough is not enough. He has this beautiful home with great views of the city, but he needs more. He guarded support from the rest of the neighbors, some 60 odd neighbors, by telling a side of the story that says he lives in a cramped studio in order to stay in the neighborhood, he needs to be able to add a fourth floor to add more living space. Reality is, as he owns the entire building, it's his option to rent the majority of the building out and decide to live in a studio. He also owns multiple, maybe dozens of other properties around East Boston. So this hardship of, we can't stay in the neighborhood if we don't expand to the fourth floor seems a little bit arbitrary. He'll say that one Brigham sets precedent. We say that that was done when no one was paying attention to East Boston. And since then, people are concerned about what gets built in East Boston. The reality is, is dozens of abodders have spent three years chasing this thing down. We've come just no less than six of these meetings taken time off from work. I haven't been able to put my kids to bed in order to attend a butters meetings and neighborhood association meetings and retired of this process. I know that the elected officials requested deferrals in order to continue the process. I would ask that instead we decide on this now once and for all and decide against. Thank you. Madam Chairwoman, members of the board, Keith Champion. I live at 181 Webster Street directly behind. Two Brigham. As far as new things, I know we've set a lot here. I just want to kind of just like, you know, again, we've been going through this process for a long time. It was a 40 to 1 vote. You know, over the three years it's been a little compromised. The plans you see here today are pretty much similar to what you've seen years ago. And on that basis, I just request that you vote against this project. Thank you. My name is Alilijuan. I'm at one Brigham Street right next door. My main concern is my privacy and security. And I address this to Mr. Jacobson the other day. I say, so you're at one Brigham and what's your opposition based on? On privacy. Privacy and security. Okay. Okay. And I address this directly to Mr. Jacobson and he just brushed me off. He said, why would I want to? Well, I'll ask exactly, I think, privacy and security you're putting on the record for us. Anything else? Outside my bedroom is a balcony. And this is where Mr. Jacobson is going to put his balcony on, which is crossed just a little bit like you can cross over to mine. And this is outside my bedroom. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? I'm assuming. So, can I just ask some mayors off-strap, Senator, a question. This is irrelevant in some ways. Does the three Brigham and headhows come down? Or not? Yeah. I'll stick on the picture down. Still there. Okay. This is to be four full stories. Okay. Okay. So, Councillor, response please. So, I don't want to get into the three Brigham story. No, I need to keep it two Brigham and two only. Two only. Yes. Okay. So, we did hear comments about base code versus Article 53. I think that one of the things that the speaker overlooked was the fact that Article 2N, which is applicable for the Brigham Districts, specifically defines building identity and support of the Brigham and says, when a relief or existing structure is not accepted above, it talks about the exceptions. It exceeds the high limit, specified in the neighborhood district. In this case, 35 feet. On a lot line, in the same district as a joining the lot on which the legal existing structure is located, a structure may be built to a height greater than set height limit. So, 35 feet is not the height limit, but shall not project above a line driving between the highest point of set legal existing structure and any point in the height limit, whose distance from set highest point is three times the height of set highest point above the height limit. And I think Mr. Bazzani is familiar with this calculation, but I want to be clear from the board that it is applicable in the neighborhood districts despite the fact that it does appear in the base code as well. This is a distinction between the analysis that this board did on three Brigham Street because you did not have a higher building a joining. And I believe the purpose of not mistaken in that provision is to deal with things like snow load and other issues that happen when you have a larger building a joining you immediately next door and then you have a building that's lower. And that's part of the intent of what why this vote allows for a higher limit. So I think not to interrupt. But the intent of that was to deal with how you handle broken teeth. I think the two, the numbers of opinion, the overriding issue is that the series of broad households should be considered as an intervening and number five. And the rules for us and the rules and the rules respect to that. And it could have used other items. What's more disconcerning to this number is the fact that this board when dealing with number three and down very hard that that house was to be removed. Now, with position, we will hear an argument that is using what should have been as a justification as to why and the adjacent property can't be what. You know, okay. I was like, okay, no, just let's. I'm saying that but that's a good point. Okay, this downward dialogue may have a motion, please. Motion, I will have three to a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Calling any interpretation? Calling BOA 897-118-115 Federal Street. Petition seeks the termination of the special service department, air-dination and permit. The permit was issued as an allowed use. On board. gehen Outde ру 영 media station bereit a lab算ด ho nmrenadena f joh All the representatives here for this case. We are a matter of care and I have some additional. I think I'm missing one. You're from Winthrop Square. Please have a seat at the table. And just everybody put your name and address on the record so that I know everybody's accounted for. Yes, we're the appellante challenger. Lisa Goodhart and with me, my partner Dylan Sanders. We're from the law firm of Sugarman Rogers, Bar Shack and Cohen. Join by our co-counsel Rebecca Lay of Mints. And we have with us today a principle of the Rock Point Group, Daniel Dom. And structural and geotechnical engineers from Matt and Mara, Salvia and Sam. And I'm sorry, did you put your name on the record? I think I did, but perhaps I did. Let me take it from the top. I'm Lisa Goodhart. Okay, thank you. I might have missed that. Please put your name and address on the record. Bruce Balby from the law firm of the LA type of 33 archery representing the city of Winthrop, LLC, the owner. Okay. Kim Ty, assistant commissioner for plans and zoning at ISD, 1010 miles out. Thank you. So last time we left it was the hopes that the two parties at the table, the two property owners would reach some conclusion to the conversation. Please give us an update of what's happening in the weeks. We do not have an agreement. I'm very disappointed to say. We were working diligently toward that as recently as Friday. And we're very surprised when new issues were injected and the negotiations fell apart. So we're here today requesting action on our appeal. And we have brought with us a reply memorandum and two additional affidavits to address specifically two of the points that Mr. Arelich raised in his question last time, but we need to go ahead. Is there a high level summary of what those conclusions were? Yes. To address the first point, there were questions about what's so special about this situation. Why is this unique? We have a butters disputes every day. And they're handled in the ordinary course by just allowing ISD to do what it does. So I'm going to explain why this is so unique. Number one, they've got an unusually tall building, 54 stories going in unusually deep, four stories below ground surface, unusually close to our building. Number two, our building's lateral support system is concrete and there's a trust. We do not have the flexible steel framing that most tall buildings, modern tall buildings in Boston tend to have. As a result of our construction, our building is unusually rigid and unusually vulnerable to very small degrees of differential settlement. So on top of those two things, we have a third consideration. We have very unusual geotechnical conditions. At this particular site, it just so happens that the 12 kinds of bedrock that we have are unusually weathered to a degree that makes them unusually variable and susceptible to unexpected things happening. Those three situations make this a situation that calls for special consideration and special protection. Number two, another question Mr. Ailek asked, and I think his questions on this point last time were directed to Ms. Ty as the representative of ISD. And you asked about the usual process and what ISD has in place. And following that, I had a conversation with Ms. Ty, make sure I understood correctly. And the situation is this, ISD has no limiting threshold. I think Ms. Ty, since she's here, can speak for her. Yes, I may. I won't characterize for her then. Okay. I will tell you that there is no limiting threshold in place and that the process we would be left with in the absence of action by this board sending it back to the commissioner to impose a limiting threshold is we'd have to pick up the phone. Call ISD, say come on out. You haven't been to our building since construction began. You haven't seen our instrumentation. You don't know how to read it. You don't know how it works. We'll take the time to orient you and educate you while the developer keeps building. That is not prudent and wise. It's akin to driving down a highway without putting on a seatbelt. We need a restraint if we get a sudden event that causes everyone to be thrown forward. And I would much rather, and I think the board should take the view that it is much better at the end of the fast ride to say, I guess we didn't really need the seatbelt than to have a crash and say, gee, I guess you were right. I wish we had had the seatbelt. Councillor, did you have any words of wisdom for us? Yes, I do. Okay. I've got three points. We now installed 100% of our foundation wall alongside one on one field, which all the engineers predicted would have the greatest impact. All 23 panels, there's been no negative impact. Our engineers are right, we're not threatening their building. And our engineers know their building because one of our engineering firms, Thornton, Thomas Seatt, designed their building, which they characterize as so you need. Second point, they're protected. They have remedies. They claim last time that they need the unusual, unprecedented condition. They're asking you to impose to protect them against theoretical danger in the future. If they can actually show actual threat of danger, they can go to the building commission for a stop or a court. Or they at any time that they feel their threatening can show it, they can go to court for an injunction to stop construction. They have remedies. The third point is that what's really going on here is they're seeking an unreasonable agreement because they want their thresholds in it. And let me give you an example. The wall that went in that was supposed to have an impact on their building, that the differential settlement that was measured from that wall is 0.05 inches. The wind yesterday caused 0.15 inches of movement. What they want is 0.3 to be the trigger that stops working towards our project into this array. It's unreasonable. And as leverage, they're using this unprecedented challenge to the building commissioner, asking you to take the unprecedented step of imposing a straight check of the condition on his permit. Not supported by any evidence to the contrary is assistant commissioner ties flying last time. Not only did the building commissioner have the engineering reports that our engineers prepared showing that their building would not be damaged, not only did he have these and review them or rely on them, and you have them like some of them last time. But in addition, he met with 101 federal and its engineers before he made his decision. Fairness, common sense, the voluminous record before you required that you reject this unprecedented challenge to the building commissioner's judgment and authority. And we would ask you to dismiss the appeal today without further consideration of delay, because we're prejudice by every additional delay with this appeal pending, because I wonder will not find into this project with the appeal pending. And for that matter, so you know, the condition they want to make this project incline acceptable. Last word, please, since we are asked to claim that ISD did not or did or. Thank you, Madam Chairman. So again, that issue is whether or not the commissioner aired an issuing a foundation permit. And as I had explained in the previous hearing, we have strict standards for policy and procedure with respect to how we issue foundation permits. We felt that the applicant had submitted sufficient information to us and certifications from their design professionals for us to feel comfortable to issue that permit. With respect to what the appellant council stated with respect to my conversation, the building code covers everything from a single family to a large high rise. And we understand that especially in Boston with all the different types typologies of geography as well as the different types of buildings that we review that everything is done on a case by case basis. So when I state that there is no threshold, it's because it is a case by case basis. Any time that we are alerted to anything unusual, we immediately act as we are required to do by the building code by enforcing it. And those are the rules and regulations. We firmly believe that we did not err in issuing the foundation permit. Thank you. May I have a motion? Yeah, since I was the one who made the motion for the delay, that request was based on that hope. Before a lot of thoughts on the words, I'm usually on press it, but we have the optimistic hope that the two parties could settle separately so that we would not be in a position that we're only one way or another. That didn't happen. But even prior to this, we were persuaded by assistant commissioner to assess the money and I would like to make a motion today. So it's suggesting that I just needed not err in the room. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. You can. And to Nellas right there, you can enter. Thank you. Information into the record. Everybody at the table. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Well, last order of business is the recommendations and the hearings that were held on February 14th. If anybody's going to have a conversation, if we could have that outside of greatly appreciated so we can finish up here. Just to order a business here, I have to go back to two cases that I made a denial without prejudice and I'm going to bring them up here right now before I go to the rest of the recommendations. The first one case, BOA 91535546 East Broadway and BOA 892 543 616 to 618 East H Street. We're both denied without prejudice. But we're talking to council. There was some sort of misunderstanding. So I'm going to take back both my denial without prejudice and getting new date. So this is under new recommendations. Under recommendations and hearings. Yep. On the February 14th hearing. So for case BOA 915355546 East Broadway, we have a new deferral date of 425 to the subcommittee at 5pm. This is just to clarify and I know that the applicants were not at the meeting as a result. We made a motion for denial without prejudice. So I'm going to take that back. Yeah, and we understand subsequently that there was some misunderstanding. So Mark, this is for both cases. For both cases, I take both the denial without prejudice back and I make a motion for deferral on 546 East Broadway. Okay. May I have a second? A second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date? The date? The date of April 25th down at 1010 Mass Ave at 5pm. Okay. Motion carries. And for case BOA 892 543 616 618, I make a motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? I'm the date again? And also a date of April 25th, 2019 at 5pm down at 1010 Mass Ave 5th floor. Thank you. Okay, Madam Chair. I'm going to go into the recommendations that we had on February 14th, 2019 at 1010 Mass Ave. The first case BOA 911-052-389 Maverick Street was to remove the provisional of the previous owner and grant a new owner. It was approved with a regular takeout language. Case BOA 908-54820 Polk Street was to confirm the occupies as a one family and at 12 by 14 partial addition. It was approved. Case BOA 876-333-70 Windtrip Street was a proposal for an addition of 225 square feet roofed deck. It was approved. Case BOA 911-535-546 Broadway which we just talked about is being moved to 425, 2019. Case BOA 909-980-142-8 Street was a change of rock. It was a single family to a two family. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 804-240-686-E Street was deferred to 226 which was deferred today. Case BOA 909-077-807-66067 Street was a change of rock from our three family to our two family. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 874-391-608-610-8 Street was heard today. Case BOA 892-543-616-618-E Street was changed to 425-2019, the subcommittee. Case BOA 913-590-65G Street was constructed in New Exterior Red Deck in Steele, it was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 734-127-57-58E Springfield Street was a denial at our prejudice. Case BOA 848-024-109-117-8 Blue Hill Ave was deferred to the full board on 499-2019 at 1130. Case BOA 848-4185-2 Mill Street was to remove the existing deck. The ground floor on an opening to the rail was approved. Case BOA 889-705-54-8Mins Street was deferred to the full board on April 9, 2019. Case BOA 902-566-38-Gernsey Street was the converted and existing attic storage space in the living space. It was approved. Case BOA 912-638-253-261 North Average Street was a change of archery from three stores to the restaurant to Barber Shop. It was approved with BPDA and also signage. Case BOA 893-314-36 Lane Park. It was a change of archery from a single family to a two family and proposed a two-story side addition. It was approved with BPDA and the final case was board final out of BOA 824-678-301-303-Cory Street and was approved. That was the zoning committee results and we just need a motion for approval. Motion carried out in this is the second. All those in favor? Hi. Me opposed? Motion carries. The meeting is now adjourned. Can you have a case, ma'am? Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.