 you Okay. You You You You Good morning, the city of Boston zoning board of peer hearing from February 24, 2026 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings to a June 2027. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform and is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment or members applicants and their attorneys. We're representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking panels are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require for that reason the board prefers to hear from members of the public were most impacted by a project that is those individuals who have closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform click it again and your hands should go down when the host sees your hand you will receive a request to unmute yourself so that yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. If you are asked to request press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host those call the upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you enough time to do so please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. If you are asked to keep your comments brief and all public testimony will be limited to 90 seconds per speaker. Mr. Stembridge. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Mr. Valencia. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President. Good morning Madam Chair President Yes, Chair President. All right Ms President. Do Mr. Cambridge. Yes. Mr. Beyonce. Mr. reasonable and at this point, unless anyone has any questions that they can direct about here. We will then have. I'm sorry. Okay, can please continue with this number. Well, they all feel reasonable while we eat the mall and what one has to do and it will take a vote at the end. First, we have case BOA 154, 5997 with the address of 472 to 474 Western Avenue. Next, we have case BOA 148 3092, the address of 6621 East Secretary. Next, we have case BOA 132, and 0835 with the address of 913 U.N. Street. Next, we have case BOA 12529530, with the address of 595 to 603, numeric street. And finally, we have case BOA 1279801, with the address of 120 or entry street. Those are the extensions that we have for first day. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, we have a motion to grant the extensions as requested. Motion to grant me extensions as requested. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapuraza. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next, we have board final armature cases. Schedule for 930 a.m. First, we have case BOA 1261313, with the address of 154, terrorist street. If the applicant and or their representative are present, would they please explain to the board? Are you speaking, Mr. Federico? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. I'm Adam Chair and fellow board members. Thank you very much. I am Joe Federico 1039, or the business address of 1039 at East Street in Dado. I am the owner and the developer for the 154 terrorist street project. And so I'll just kind of briefly go through the changes that we've made from the previous ZBA approval. So we reduced the building in height from seven stories to six stories, which also lowered the overall height from 82 feet to 60 feet, and lowered the FAR as well. The remainder of the building ground floor has remained unchanged. We still have 24 apartment spaces, so the apartment ratio was lowered slightly. The total number of units decreased from 66 units to 65 units. And as far as that, the building footprint has been exactly the same. It's really just reducing it and height, cutting the stories and lowering the FAR. We also changed the use from bundle units to rental units. And the project has already gone through the BPDI or planning department process, and the notice of project change was loaded on, and support last week from the planning board. So we did receive a letter from one of the mission hill groups that did have some concerns about some other aspects of the project that I guess in a prior version were perhaps agreed upon around short-term rental, dorm use, and other things. I don't know if you can comment on those. It's sorry, dorm use. I'm not familiar with that. We, there was concerns about short-term rental dorm use and rental instead of ownership. Yep, so I agreed not to rent to any short-term renters that the minimum lease term would be one year. And that's something that I said, and I, undergarcent, stand behind, I'm not looking to run an Airbnb here. Not something I'm interested at all. I did not agree to not to rent to undergraduates. I don't have, or agree to really any of those kind of restrictions because that would severely impact by ability to get financing and actually build this project, which is the goal. So as far as the short-term rentals, I agree with that. It's not something that I'm going to do. It will be a minimum lease term of four-year, but I cannot restrict the rentals and not rent undergraduates. That's not something that I can agree to. Another question from the board? Mirges, Mr. Federico, I also noticed that you are transitioning the projects from home on the chip to rentals. And your previous negotiation with the mayor of the office of housing was about AMIs for homeownership. That is 80% to 100%. As you were providing some funds to the affordability, to AMOIs for affordability. And now with the rentals, you are wanting to ask if you have had new conversations or negotiations with the AMOIs about the changes because I think the AMI and the IDP is different from, I mean, for the last project that you had to this new project. Yes, that's correct. So the previous project, because it was a home ownership project, the previous owner and developer negotiated a partial buyout for the IDP units. So of the 66 units that were previously approved, only three were going to be on-site IDP units. And we are going to increase the number of on-site IDP units from three to eight. And then also contribute to a buyout for the fractional pre-reonderment of that percentage. So those would be at 70% AMI, the rental units, not the 180% that was previously agreed upon. So we lowered the AMI and increased the number of on-site of affordable units. Thank you. Do you want to agree with the mayor of office of housing for those changes? Yes, we are most part of the board memo. They increased number of units, of affordable units as far as AMOIs as well as the contribution to the fund. We have not yet, we don't have the signed affordable rental housing agreement yet. Usually that happens a little later on. But the parameters of the IDP contribution, both on-site and financial contribution are agreed upon and part of the board memo from the planning department. Okay, thank you for some reason I couldn't find that information on my package, but thank you for the clarification. First. Thank you. Are there other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisional that the project undergoes agreement in regards to affordability with MOH. Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stumberidge. Yeah. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Are you in mute, Mr. Turner? You're in mute, Mr. Turner. Sorry about that. Yes. Thank you. Ms. Greater Barrazo. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Sherwood's, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A. 148. 58. 1-7. With the address of 5-21 Cambridge Street. Is the applicant into with their representative of a present? Would they please find the case of the board? Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Johanna Scheider with the Law of the Memorial Environmental Environmental and 75 State Street. We are here today in relation to a multifamily residential project that the board approved in September 2023. A few months ago in December of 2025, we work in front of you for an extension of that approval. The originally approved project had 33 rental units, but due to changes in the market since the original approval in order for this project to be financially feasible, it requires the addition of two units for an overall total of 35 units. In May of 2025, the BPDA board voted unanimously to approve this change in unit count. As you can see from the plans that we submitted in connection with this request, the increase in units only requires internal reconfiguration. There are no changes to the building exterior or to the approved zoning envelope and no additional zoning relief is necessary. But we are here today in an effort to head off any confusion with potential construction lenders who might see a ZBA decision allowing for 33 units, but we've got a BPDA decision that says 35 units and plans that show 35 units. Did you have a Roblosavio, the project architect available if the board has questions about the plans, but I think this is a fairly straightforward matter and we would respectfully request that you grant our request that the board's decision for the project be updated to allow 35 units instead of 33 units. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Yeah, I just would like to some clarification. If the zoning envelope, let's say that was originally approved to state the same, what changes in footprint is allowing for two additional units as that you're decreasing the amount of unit beds, how is there like an equal to equal that you're not changing the massing of the overall building? Yeah, it's a totally internal reconfiguration in terms of the sizes of the units location of the demizing walls, a little bit of change to the previously shown common spaces. If you wanna get into more details, as I said, you do have the project architect, you could walk through the changes. Yeah, I would like to know specifically what allowed for the addition of the two units, what actually was removed, was it a decrease in the X amount of square footage of community space? I would like to understand what was the change that allowed for there to be no increase in FAR or stories or building perimeter, just for clarity. Sure. Robert, you do not have audio access. Typically, what's helpful is to see a before and after. So we do have on the plans that we submitted, and I'm gonna try to play architect here for a moment and not do it terribly well. Robert's trying to log in. And Rob, if you wanna try to crawl in, maybe that would be helpful. But if you look at the red bubbled areas, you can see where the internal changes were. Please scroll down. I think that if we look at the floor plans in particular, yeah, anything that is red bubbled shows the areas that were reconfigured internally in order to make the unit count work. Thank you, Hissies. Hissies, can you go to the plans that are above the doubt? No. Can you hear me now? Yes, we can hear you. That's perfect. Yeah, so I wanna understand. Okay, great, is your architect here? Yes, that was his voice. The words are squawled. It allowed you to have any questions. Thank you. So on all sides, all four sides is over. And no, there's no change. The envelope except into locations, which will get 22nd part of the increase in unit count on the customer read of the mic and layout within the foot itself. And then the ground floor to the plan that they haven't come to appear, what would previously common area in the bottom right there has now become a unit. So no, again, no change. The footprint just needs to change. On the fifth floor, is going to go to that plan for just a second. Because the P105 yourself. Thank you. One of five is 105. Yeah, I believe that's it. Doing it. Actually, I can say one of the six next one down. So previously perfect. So previously we had a common area roofed on the level of building. The roof deck was, which still exists today, was a little more square in proportion. So part of the increase in square footage was to extend that unit with scars and red of budding the outdoor space, slightly into the outdoor space. OK. Great. Between. So basically, so thank you for clarifying that, because it wasn't presented to us that you're actually removing common space to allow for additional units. But it doesn't necessarily at all. It changed the envelope for the building. OK. Thank you. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, they have a motion. Madam Chair, given that there are no additional zoning violations, I like to put a motion forward of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. DeValencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. DeValazo. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we move on to the recommendations. scheduled for 9.30 a.m. is probably some committee meeting on February 12th. They were all approved. So if we have any questions, ask them after our read them. The first is case BOA 180, 0207. With the address of 301 to 305 West Broadway, that was approved. What happened to our third BFA? Oh. I apologize, Madam Chair. We give refocues. Going back to what the final officer cases, we have case BOA 126, 3429 with the address of 28A, Brisbane, broke. It's the applicant who will represent our president. Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you for coming back to us. I appreciate it. So we presented before the board, previously obtained zoning relief to construct a new single family dwelling on this parcel. The current owner controls, what is identified on your site plan there is 28 to 26, as well as the subject parcel. The proposal was to put in a long linear driveway with parking to the rear to service both parcels. The long linear driveway would scour both parcels to be memorialized by a future recorded easement. The board did approve that prior plan of the construction as indicated with the specific proviso of trying to maximize green space. So with that in mind, the owner underwent discussion with the BPDA. There's also significant elevation change on this parcel to the rear and a significant amount of ledge exposed to ledge and rock, which renders parking at that elevation and configurations difficult. So trying to effectively allow parking to still exist on site for the sake of trying to hopefully increase green space, the updated proposal from the applicant was to try to put front yard parking. There's an existing not on this plan, but the site plan that the ZBA has seen previously as part of the prior iteration of approval. There's a very long existing curb cut in place. The proposal is to utilize a portion of that existing curb cut, but then also return curb to the public domain for on street parking. This will allow us to continue to utilize that portion of the existing curb cut and put in two parking spaces into the front of the building to remain compliant with parking requirements, but it is triggering a front yard parking refusal that were coming back before the board for board final approval of. So that is the proposed updated change from the last iteration approved by this board to allow for two front yard, off street parking spaces, not in tandem orientation. Questions from the board? Was there possibly to explore relocating the building closer to the front so that you can avoid the ledge to some degree and allow for the parking to exist at the rear? The prior iteration had a modal shift to the front to bring us into alignment with current structure, along with parking to the rear. And that was previously approved by this board in the prior plans and that is, you know, for geography and other reasons, kind of not permissible when it comes to the actual construction. So this is the iteration now back before the board, but to answer your question, that was the original proposal. Okay, thanks, now for the questions. Mr. Hilton? Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Boyd, Jeff Hampton, City of Boston Planning Department. We are opposed to this new plan that's being shown to the board today for board final operator. One of the reasons is we do understand the difficulty for the off street parking. However, we would never support front yard parking. And as the panel has stated, this has triggered a new zoning violation. So in the planning department's opinion, this needs a new hearing because we need to take a look at it and make a recommendation on a new zoning violation. Our urban design department has also stated that they wouldn't support this as a board final operator for any sort of design review because we never support front yard parking. So we just want to go on the record as being opposed to this as being before, before the final operator and not a new hearing. Thank you. Are you, Caroline? Good morning, Madam Chair. Yeah, just to clarify, so if the board did approve the removal of this proviso, the applicant would stop to come back for a warning. You're going in and out a little bit and you see the last part, the board, the applicant would still have to come back for a warning. Correct because it does trigger a new zoning violation. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? So Madam Chair, if I could just briefly respond? Sure. So I guess if this is ultimately denied in light of prior approval, the prior plan would still remain an effect. Theoretically linear parking to the right of the structure might be an option but then would require a replacement of a curb cut. It would also, you know, the tandem orientation of parking would still suffice for parking, but itself create a violation so that would theoretically be another option with maybe the same end effect. So I guess procedure I was just asking if you had any opinion as a board on that orientation of parking versus front yard non tandem parking. Thank you. Any comments or feedback from the board? Is that something that can be worked out in design review with the BPA off the original decision? We can happily have that dialogue with the BPDA and see if that's less offensive to the BPDA, but if it does require a zoning violation for maneuverability or orientation of parking, even though it's the required, the requisite number, I guess then would ZBA board final decision be applicable in that scenario? I'm just going to go ahead and say, if I may, I think they're back here because of the design review process and because it does trigger a new zoning violation. This is why we are opposed to them, you know, removing the provides, they haven't approved the plan. I understand that the parking may not work for them, but having it come before you to show you new parking spaces in the front yard is not something that we support, especially when they acknowledge it's a new zoning violation, it needs its own hearing. They do have design review. If they're agreeable to going through the design review process, then, you know, the original approval would stand because it did go through, excuse me, the provides up was through design review. If they decide that they want to move forward with the front yard parking, this would require a new hearing and you'd get a recommendation from us. So, you know, they do have an approved project with design review pending. And Mr. Hampton, so Mr. Smith mentioned other alternatives, I, is it safe to assume those are already embedded through design department? I can't speak for the design department. I can assume, but I don't want to. Okay, gotcha. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Is there a motion? Make a motion of denial. It sounds like it needs to go back through the design review process, what the planning department. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Brown. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Bernado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Understood. Thank you for your time. Thank you. And we'll go again through the recommendations. Go for 9.30 a.m. from the February. 12th. Subcommittee meeting. All of the. All of the. These were approved. Those there are any questions. I'll be through and in passing after that. First, we have case B.O.A. 180. Zero to zero seven. With the first. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. I'll be in the next. Next. Next. Next we have case. Be away. 178. 847. 5. What. The address of two. Pacific Street. What. What. 6173 with the address of 48, 23 Washington Street, which was food and those were the cases of recommendation from the sub-preview subcommittee. Are there questions from the board? May I have a motion? A motion to accept the recommendations of the subcommittee. Is there a second? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Rolencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Betabraza. Yes. Ms. Promado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Next, we'll move on to the hearings. Excuse me, I have your 9.30 AM. At this time, we'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or the pearls from the 9.30 AM here. Mr. Luna, are you? Yes. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Joseph Luna, representing 33 Princeton, BLA number 16422. Okay, close that. You address your looking to differ? Yes. Okay, so please let Mr. Stembridge read it into the locker. Okay. So this would be more case BLA 1642295 with the address of 33R, Bristol Street. That's correct. Would you go ahead, Mr. Henry? Yes. This is the second part of a two part, part of approval. My client has advised that he did pull permits on this back in 1992. We are trying to locate more documentation through ISD regarding that initial permit. And we'd like a request for an additional month to find this information. Okay, Caroline? Into April 7th. Okay. That'll be fine. Okay, was that me having a motion? Motion to defer this case to April 7th. Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Lawrence here? Yes. Mr. Turner? Yes. Mr. Berrauser? Yes. Mr. Conato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. She votes yes. The motion carries. See you then. Thank you. We'll see you later. I'll be there. Right. Any further requests for withdrawals of the frauds for the 9-3 AM here? Then we will move on to the first case, which is case B-A-A 1803891, with the address of 344 to 350 Washington Street. This is an article 80 case, though if the applicant and whether representable present, would that please explain to the board? Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney John Paul Genie, here on this proposal at 344 Washington Street in Brighton. Currently, this property is a Duncan Donuts and has the Asperia Grill, which is the neighborhood's institution for decades. It's a one-story commercial building. With me today is Mark Sullivan, the project's architect. He's having some difficulties as am I with power outages, so he is trying to join by phone, as well as the property owner, Tim Athens-Satis. Tim is a longtime fixture in Brighton neighborhood, together with his wife and son, they've been operating the Asperia Grill at this location for the past 20 years. We appreciate the opportunity to speak before you. 344 Washington Street, the zoning is neighborhood shopping one. The lot size is 6450 square feet. The proposal before you is to take down the current one-story commercial building and the construction of a new six-story mix used building on this lot. The ground floor of this building will remain retail space housing a new Duncan Donuts location. The remaining five floors will be comprised of 19 two bedroom condominium units. Each unit will have private outdoor deck space, and again, these are office homeownership units. The project will also include 17 parking spaces in a territory to the building. Six of those spaces will be for the Duncan Donuts customers, while the remaining 11 spaces will be for residents. This project underwent a planning department's article 80 and was approved by the board in August. Throughout the community process, the proposal was well received, especially in light of the homeownership at home ownership part of it. And we received support letters from the DAI, as well as City Council President Breedon. As I stated, the proposal was just approved by the BPA in August, in addition to providing 19 homeownership opportunities. The proposal will provide three affordable home ownership units, three improvements to both Washington and the Academy Hill, across Washington, three trees and widening the sidewalks through the granting of a pedestrian easement to the city. I appreciate your opportunity to present and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, the public testimony? Good. I'm Chair and members. See Johnson with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services has completed the community process led by the Boston Planning Department, the DPD Health. It's public meeting on July 30th of 2025. We have to spend multiple times with the BAA and secure the support of that group. The proposal was adjusted to accommodate more parking and the homeownership aspect was supported by the community with that background. Our office deferred judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have so a development. Yes, good morning. My name is Zoe Devon, a project manager in the development review division of the Planning Department. Here to express, Planning Department's support of the project, the project filed their SPRA with us as an article 80s well project on June 25th, 2025. And the Planning Department hosted a public meeting on July 30th. The team conducted independent community outreach as well as explained and both received with public support. The project was approved by the BAA Board on August 14th. And we're happy to see this project move forward and for us to design our new days of article 80. So we did a deferred at this board further action. Thank you. Okay, Alex, we have Brandon. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board, and Morning, Ms. Brandon, Doug Shan, and I'm here as the owner of the operating on the property located at 354 Washington, St. Breiden, I'm at direct and immediate up butter. And I apologize for giving all my feedback, waiting this process, and I was never given access to the drawings until two weeks ago, so there was no community outreach with me being as a direct butter. To provide low history, we began our design development a few years ago. Our drawings were coordinated as we looked to develop our law as well. And we coordinated with the 344 Washington Street team. However, the coordination has not been reciprocated to us. Since receiving these drawings on 211, I've been able to use them, and then I've performed comments to directly impact my project. 344's building is directly on and against my common law. This is a structural role. Also, the violations of the quality of setbacks and fire separation are directly on my property. The placement of windows and openings that directly overlook my property does not accommodate my future development. In the absence of recorded protections binding future property owners of the common union units. But the history of our own development, there's no recorded party, where I was remit, easement, or covenant, how many we use to the structural role, or the law line, the absence of social remit, and the construction of both on the right line against my business and proper. I do not consent to the use of my dealing while my line is to party well by our structural support for this project. Excuse me. Can you please wrap up, and it sounds to me like there needs to be some conversation offline with the applicant? Sure. Yes, so my proposed reasonable resolutions are for setback on the shared common law line. Also, reconfiguration and design that there are no windows that overlook my property, since this will impact my future development. And lastly, provide legal documentation to my legal team that will be included in the Condo Association documents. And all these efforts will be reciprocated on my future development as well. Thank you. Any other raised hands? They're not additional comments. Okay. Mr. Boogini? I'm sure I'll just address our last issue that I was raised by Brandon. So these two projects are going through the, going through the BPDA approval, article 80 approval process concurrently. There, we were using the same architect. Okay. The same architect was developing their project design project. The BPDA wanted these to work together. We have been as open and obvious and as transparent as possible. 352 right next door. It's a 19 unit just as us with six parking space and that's an apartment building ours is home ownership. We'll continue that dialogue and we'll continue working with them. But we have been reaching out to everybody and there has been no, everybody has had the plans for quite some time. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Can I ask both of them? Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here are none. I have a motion. I'm sure I collect both for one motion of approval. I think this is a very good way to utilize existing parking lots and especially to keep a retail or business in the area in other than providing afforded housing. So my motion is of approval. Is there a second? Okay. Dr. Tambourde. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Ms. Ben Rouser. Yes. Ms. Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you everyone. Next we have two companion cases. First case of the way. One eight zero zero one zero one. With the address of two fifty five Allen Dale Street. Along with that we have case B.O.A. One eight zero zero one one one. With the address of two fifty seven Allen Dale Street. If the applicants end and with a representative of present. Would they please explain the cases to the board? Yes. Thank you. Good morning. Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Barry Fogel. I'm the attorney for the project from Keegan, Worland. With me here this morning is Helen Glotzer. She's the president and CEO of Allen Dale Farm. This is a project to build two new structures to replace some aging structures. On the portion of the property on Allen Dale Street near the Brookline Boston town line. City line. If you go to the next slide our project team quickly involves. The farm we have landscape architects at clopped for Martin. Union studio is the architect. VHB has been the civil engineer. Our general contractor is landmark services. Next slide please. Allen Dale Farm is a working farm in the city. The retail use has been on this parcel for more than 60 years. This parcel is subject to an agricultural preservation restriction held by the trustees of reservations. This particular part of the property under that APR is considered the farm building on the local. Which validates and allows retail and agricultural uses. The retail market has been there operates sustainably grown fresh produce. And the goal is to upgrade the facilities to make it more efficient, more sustainable, and to support the regional community but in a way that continues to be consistent with the neighborhood. Next slide please. Again the project goal is to offer a better visitor experience. It improves parking and circulation. There is increased environmental sustainability with storm water management, protection of the adjacent wetland resources. It is dark sky compliant to improve lighting. The market barn is the first of the buildings that will serve as the headquarters for the retail. And there is a retail grain house that will be able to support the greenhouse function. Next slide please. This gives you an idea of a location. This is a little bit small but that orange parcel in the middle of the circle is where it is. And that larger parcel with the outline is all of Alondale farm. And as you can see it's part of a larger green space area in this entire area. The JP neighborhood plan actually identifies this as open space. Next slide please. This is an aerial photo showing you the facility that Alondale Street is on the left running from east to west into Brookline. There is a pond to the right of the property where the parcel where the structures would be. These are the former structures but you can see how it relates to the larger wooded area of the farm which is to the off the image. Next slide please. This was the current view. We actually got approval from the Boston Preservation Commission to allow demo. And this was completed in the fall without any significance having been found. But this was what it looked like previously on from Alondale Street. The stone wall is remaining. You go to the next slide please. This is a plan view showing that same image. These were the structures in the black and in the gray where the former retail structures on the property, the parking area between them and Alondale Street. The orange structures are existing. The harvest barn is the smaller one of the production green house. The larger production green house in Brookline is on the top left. Next slide please. These are the two new structures that are proposed in these filings. The market barn on the left and the retail green house on the right. As you can see there are landscape islands in the parking lot which is going to have new storm water management system in it. But the pond and the wetland adjacent to it on the right are protected. We were before the Conservation Commission earlier this year. The last year and received approval from the Conservation Commission. The project was approved by the BPDA Board in March of 2025. And we've been before the Public Improvements Commission for the crosswalk that you see. A new pedestrian crosswalk has been proposed and approved by the PIC to allow pedestrians to cross from the sidewalk on the south side of Alondale Street to make it into the property. Next slide please. This is a rendering of what the new buildings look like. The retail green house on the right and the market barn on the left. You can see the crosswalk through the storm wall and into the parking area. We have a couple of elevation views that I'll run through quickly to go to the next slides. This is the south elevation looking from Alondale Street on the oblique. Actually the north arrow is a little bit oblique to it. So this is the market barn and the retail green house. Next slide please. This is the view from the back from the pond side. Next slide please. This is a view from the north looking from over where that harvest barn was. The retail green house is obscured behind it. And then the next slide please. A message of view from if you will from the Brookline side looking back. Next slide. So we received refusal letters from ISD when we file for our building permits because under the JP neighborhood district. The retail and agriculture actually are forbidden. Even though the Lawrence farm conservation protection sub district was actually named for the farm. Alondale farm used to be called the Lawrence farm. And because we, Alondale Street is a green belt in the green belt protection overlay district. We require a conditional use permit because each of these structures is just a bit over 5,000 square feet. Thank you. We have any questions you have. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record. My name is Jeremy Bemberry and the Jamaica Planned Community Engageant Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process of receipt board approval on March 13th of 2025. And the report has also met with the Civic Association for that area. Jabacon Hill is association and was approved in April of 2025. The proponent then met with the neighborhood council, Jamaica Planned Neighborhood Council, and received approval on December 17th, which completed the community process. Today our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. And the report was approved and moved forward with the zone of wood. Thank you for your time and the most office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the report for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Jordan from Consular Weathers. Good morning Chair and members of the board. Jordan, free us here, our director of policy for Councilor Weathers. Councilor Weathers, I'd like to go on a record and supportive of this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to ask for your motion. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Betabaza. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. Ms. Becolleins. Yes. Sherwoods, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next we have case B.O.A. 171-0868 with the address of 110-114 Business Street. This is the application for cannabis. This is for cannabis. The staff. Mr. Stumbridge, please proceed. The applicant and the representative of the president. Will they please explain case of the board? Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. On the board, Attorney Quinn Heath, on behalf of the petitioner, Caleb Mathis and New Growth LLC. New Growth LLC is seeking a conditional use permit for marijuana-related use, which consists of direct delivery to consumers only with no on-site sale of product. New Growth is also seeking a variance related to a buffer requirement to be over 500 feet from schools on the basis that the business is over 500 feet when you're taking to account. In passable barriers, including a train track and a brick. New Growth was approved for and executed a host community agreement after presentation to the Hyde Park Neighborhood Association and Boston Cannabis Board. And executed that host community agreement for 161 reservation road on January 30th, 2026. New Growth will be owned and operated jointly by its two owners, Caleb Mathis and MoTaha, who have joined us today if you have any questions. I'd like to just walk you through very quickly the simple plans for this project. So on this slide, we have just the general layout. This is going to be a small single unit in a shared lot. It will be used for administrative use for drivers who are making deliveries to stay when they're not making deliveries. As well as storage of cannabis product, which will be secured in line with all of the state regulations with strict requirements for health and safety of cannabis products. This slide shows the survey buffer plan that shows the distance to the nearest school and daycare facility measured by about western regulations and state law around buffers to schools. Although the distance is approximately 428 feet measured from entrance to entrance, the distance when you walk or drive is over 800 feet of traffic. 800 feet of grievance closer to 1200, although it's not measured on this precise plan. With that, I think this is a simple project and proposal, so I will turn it over to the board for any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, these are certified awesome equity applicants. Yes, this is a certified social equity applicant. What are the hours that you're operating? I believe I would need to check. I'm sorry. I believe we've got 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. but I would. It was approved by the Boston cannabis board. I can get you that information in a minute. Okay, and Mr. Stimberg, did you have a question? Two, yes. So there will be no on-site transactions. There will be no on-site transactions. There will be a shed that is garage essentially that we can pull it van into to load product into. That is all that will happen. The products will be loaded there and taken to the consumers reporter. Also, I do have the hours of operation that's 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. Thank you. And there's no direct access from the school that you mentioned before. No, the only entrance is by the road through the survey plan is the distance that we showed you and that is a gate. So at night and in the evening hours, there's going to be no access to the lot at all without a key. During the day, you will have to drive in, but it is a shared lot with other businesses and a private shared plot. And also security. There will be at least one individual working during business hours, doing security during nighttime hours. There will not be, but there will be a fully secure establishment with cameras, perimeter alarms and other security mechanisms. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, I remember C. Johnson with the Office of Neighborhood Services. This applicant completed the community process and a butter's meeting was hosted on October 23, 2025, which in a butter raised a concern about the street being narrow and the suitability of this location for delivery operations with the concern that delivery vehicles would block the street. The applicant met with the Hyde Park Neighborhood Association, that group is an else application. Boston Cannabis Board heard this application on January 21st at which time commissioners asked questions about the buffer conflict with the school nearby, but we're set of salad, the train tracks and reservation road park provided, impassable, natural physical barrier between the school and those locations. That background our office differs from the judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we don't have additional hands for exit at the moment. Would that be a motion? No, I would like to make a motion for approval. We have to work with the approval list for this applicant only. Okay, is there a second? Yes, second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Blancio. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Is that a browser? Yes. Not a. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Next, we have case BOA 178-327-0 with the address of 7-Multen Avenue. It's the applicant's end or their representative or president that please explain the case to the board. Oh, here. Can you guys hear me? Well, we can now. Perfect. Perfect. Good morning, members of the board. My name is Auli Sman and I'm the architect representative. The owner is also current in the meeting. For this project, our proposal is available on existing law to develop new three family residential. Look at it in the new address will be 11 mountain Avenue. This will be three units with full bedrooms and two bathrooms. This will be rental units. The owner has a hard up very successful meeting with the neighborhood and one of the main goal is having four bedroom units that we allow to be used within the home base program and the section A. As the owner currently has properties around the area and he works very close with a program. As of now, it's a vacant lot. We have two parking on the rear and we're asking variance for front yard and side yard. We had at some point a rear yard but with the conversations with the meeting with the board with them, the neighborhood were able to shift the buildings of smaller to be able to supply their rear yard. Now we'll pass it to the board for any comments or questions. Any questions from the board? Man's public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembury. I'm the Madapant Community Engageant Specialist of the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abuters meeting facilitated on October 22nd. That was not very well received by the community at that time. With the many of the boys in opposition and others' boys in concern to live with the opposition, being issues with congestion and density and the neighborhood in a concern for parking. The positioning of the proposal abuters felt would cause a blind spot from Woodrow to Mountain Ave. And with the speeding issue in the neighborhood, it would create a dangerous corner that is our day experiencing accidents would increase the danger. Abuters also have voiced concerns for the upkeep and management of the property of approved as the current state of the property according to abuters is unkept and dirty. The outcome must be done to which they are understated. They would have a team go out and clean the property. The upcoming Friday, after the latest and security company to manage the property in the future. Next, the proposal was presented to Woodrow Ave neighborhood association on November 20th, where they voted no opposition and the proposal was allowed to move forward in the process. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. If we're not in motion. Madam Chair, can I just have a clarification on the survey plot plan? Yes. Okay. Your survey plot plan notes, dimensions that are different than the survey. So one of them on the left side says 4 foot 7 1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1 Yes, Mr. Collins. Yes. Yes, the motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have three companion cases. First, the case B-O-A-179-85048 with the address of 101 school street. Along, next, we have case B-O-A-179-85048 with the address of 103 school street. And finally, we have case B-O-A-179-850 with the address of 107 school street. If the applicant and for their representative present, would they please explain the cases to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stimbridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street and Boston. And thank you for this opportunity. My client is also with us today, Mr. Michael Cohen. On the screen, you're seeing the overall lot is just under 12,600 square feet. And it has two buildings on it on the right are two families that are attached. And on the left is our two three families that are attached. And for the two family building 101 and 103, we are seeking permission to expand the first floor living space into the basement. We have a very good height in the basement. It's pretty far out of the ground. And some simple window wells will provide the emergency egress that we need for the proposed three bedrooms and one bathroom that would be in the basement. So that unit would become a five bedroom to bath, which would be great for families. These are rental units. And we feel that the work can be accomplished without much change to the neighborhood and a very little embodied energy required to make this useful space. The building at 105107 is similar. That one we are only proposing two bedrooms in the lower level. And that would become a four bedroom to bath unit for 107105 doesn't have the ability to expand it to the space because of mechanical equipment. So I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jarron V. Bembery. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of under Buddhism, meeting, facilitating on December 17th with two guests and attendants, also members of the Egresson Screen Neighborhood Association. Had a few inquiries that were addressed during the meeting, book out and current occupancy, future occupancy, and the clarification on the total unit count. Next to perform a presented to both Egresson Screen Neighborhood Association and the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. Egresson Screen Neighborhood Association voted a non-opposition and Jamaican Plain Neighborhood Council voted to approve the proposal. To date, our office has received one letter of support from the Egresson Screen Neighborhood Association with suggestions to the proponent to upgrade all units of energy efficiency, window clearing, specificity, and adding sprinklers, which will send to the board for review. Thank you for your time and there is office of neighborhood services related to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, we will have additional Egresson for a set of moments. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion of approval. Yes, I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Turner. Yes. Ms. Beverly Asim. Yes. Ms. Pannauto. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have it is VOA 1-8-1-1355 with the address of 145 to 157 St. Alphonse Street. If the applicant is in the representative of present, will they please place the case to the board? Thank you, Madam Chair. On behalf of the board and staff of Mission Hill neighborhood housing services, we wish to thank you for your time and consideration of our... Madam Chair, I'm sorry to interrupt. I need to recuse myself. Thank you. We are now a six-month board. Please proceed. Thank you so much. And so we do thank you for your consideration of our 145 to 157 St. Alphonse Street project. My name is Ricardo Sanchez. I'm Director of Real Estate at Mission Hill NHS. We're a nonprofit community development corporation serving Mission Hill for over 50 years. With me today, our Executive Director Patricia Fleurdy, our architect Katie Faulkner of Westwork, our permitting attorney Nick Zazula, and several members of our board of directors. Do also want to thank those folks who have participated in the process to date at the CAM community meetings at the City of Butters meeting and again here today. We're thankful for and we're proud of the generally overwhelming support that the project has received. Next slide, please. The 145 157 St. Alphonse was originally constructed in the mid 1960s. It included three townhouses, two flats and two duplexes over those flats for a total of seven units. Prior to Mission Hill NHS's involvement, the building had been operated for decades as speculative student housing. On our inspection, units were overcrowded and with significant code violations. Mission Hill NHS is looking to acquire the property and is pursuing this development because it represents a very unique and highly unlikely opportunity for the organization to reclaim these units from the speculative and transient student market. And instead convert them to new 100% affordable code compliant and sustainable rental housing for extremely low income families at 30% of area median income in perpetuity. The seven units is a similar unit count and income level as our hear house property just on the other side of the park, which we have operated since the 1980s. The project is in Mission Hill near the intersection of St. Alphonse and Trim on Streets and located within the 5.5 acre Kevin W. Fitzgerald Park and Arboretum property. It's being subdivided as part of our proposed acquisition of the land in building and it is this subdivision that triggers the zoning requirement and the need for zoning relief. Our proposed project reconfigures units internally but maintains the same unit count, same height and footprint, same square footage as before, but with a little bit less off street parking than previously. It is intentionally limited in lot size and project scale to what has historically been the residential use. Mission LNHS proposes to fully rehabilitate the property, including a deep energy retrofit and electrification enhancements to the building envelope for sustainability. All new interior finishes and the creation of a new fully handicapped accessible unit and ramp and with that I'll turn it over to our attorney, Nick Zuzula for discussion of the zoning relief. Thanks for Carl. Good morning Madam Chair members and board. Next slide please. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. I'm going to move to the next slide. The only requirement for the board today is one hundred percent of reasons and with the new ownership and stewardship of NHS it made sense to subdivide the property out from the larger site and that's the reason for the zone. Again as Mercado mentioned the use itself is allowed there's no change in the footprint, no change in the height, no additional square footage, no change in the Unicomps, strictly due to the subdivision of the smaller site offer of the larger off the stairwell park and you can see the top here of the screen we do have just his own chart for the boards edification but again all because of the subdivision. Next slide please it's just our refusal letter don't need to spend a lot of time on this it just shows what relief was cited by ISD for the subdivision again in this refusal letter correlates to the chart that was up on the previous screen just to give you an understanding of the existing conditions and again why the zone was needed as was out of the subdivision. Happy to go over this in more detail but don't be the believer the point because it is pretty pretty simple requirement of why zones do that. So if you go to the next slide I will toss over to Katie, thought north when we work with really more slides she'll be very quick and just go over to plans and I'm not going to answer any questions that you all think of. Katie are you available? Yeah thanks Nick this is well can you hear me? Yes ma'am? Okay great thank you so it's been explained quite well I'll try to be quick and certainly can ask questions we've really tried to keep what's good about the scale and size and approach and street front of the building while giving it another 50 years of durability we're enhancing the access to it there is new handicap parking there a new handicap accessibility to the unit which is successful which wasn't there before. Improved sight lighting we have fewer parking spaces than we did we've gone from 11 to 7 and that's primarily to give bike parking access better access to site operations like trash and storage and then also having a transformer as we have to increase service because we are moving from gas to electric there will be improved stormwater management with a drainage strip around the building and there's also some dedicated outdoor space for every unit with a deck in the back next slide. Next slide please thanks so the unit reconfigurations try to stay within the existing footprint however improving these sizes on some of the units to meet MOH and EOHLC standards of room sizes that's not possible always we can't always hit the closet size we're the bedroom size but it's much improved the interior materials are meant to be both sustainable and durable there's a variety of flooring and a variety of as you can imagine student housing kind of turning over over the years we would take all of that out replace it with a more moly and which is a primarily a linoleum flooring tile in the bathrooms rubber treads on the risers for both the community for the community stairs as there's duplex units to the side all of the cabin tree would be the HUD rated for smart cabin pre or equal and the HUD rating just is a durability rating which we've been using in a lot of our supportive housing resilient countertops and then non-paper-faced wallboard in any wet area including bathroom laundry and kitchen next slide. Exterior is also meant to improve sense of address and generally upgrade the appearance of the building while keeping the scale so the siding all comes off because we're adding insulation to the outside as well as building envelope the existing windows are often replaced with larger windows because some of the bedroom windows were too small so we're putting on lap siding new impervia double IGU thermally broken windows new doors and new roofing and with that I believe we are finished happy to answer any questions and thank you so much for your time. Thank you all. Are there any questions from the board? Just curious how many bed room and the issue? There is a variety there's if we can go back to the floor planner I'll try to get it off the top of my head so there's a one bedroom accessible unit on the first floor I think they are mostly two bedrooms one bedrooms and two bedrooms and then I think record if I'm not mistaken remain three bedrooms in the townhouse this is that right? Yes. Thank you. Well that let's have some good testimony. Madam Chair and members see you also at the office of neighborhood services this application is completed the community process and the mayor's office would like to express our support for the relief being granted here today office hosted and the butter's meeting on January 28th where the proposal with wire it's supported by community members the application and brings new affordable housing units online the community alliance of mission hill is also supporting this application that background is to reiterate we were to board to grant the relief that's requested thank you. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board my name is Tony I'm here on behalf of Councillor Sharon Durkin who represents mission hill mission hill NHS is a great organization organization that meets the needs of the neighborhood and would like to support this project. Good thank you. Next we have Liam Rimas. Well Madam Chair and members from Council for Charles office the council just wanted to go on record it's for his projects but his other park so he just wanted to let it know that the family supports use of this. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a Councillor of his a Indus Johnson from to the councilor. Yes good morning Madam President members of the board but excuse me my name is Indus Johnson from Councillor Santana's office and we would like to go on record in support of this. Thank you so much and have a wonderful day. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Emily. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board I'm Emily Polston from Councillor Louise John's office. The councilor would like to go on record in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a crystal for Ronnie. Morning Madam Chair and members of the board Christopher Ronnie from the Bayer's Office of Housing and Moe�'s in strong support of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have some Montagno. Hey everyone I'm Steve representative Sam Montagno for this district I would like to go on record in support of this project in clap that it's moving forward. Thank you. Thank you and for the last person the director. Jordanal. Always a trick to remember to find the unmute. I'd like to go on record in strong support full disclosure. Thank you Madam Chair for this moment to speak. I am a board member of Mission Hill NHS but I do want to point out two things. Mission Hill NHS is the organization that created this show park that gave us this incredible shopping center one brick and circle and they're continuing on the mission to improve the neighborhood. So these are going to be the good stories of these houses. Secondly this is probably the first time in the last 35 years that I've lived on mission Hill that I found that we've been able to convert student housing into permanent long term residential housing. This is the first and I don't know if all of you can appreciate how significant that is but we have about 3000 students living on mission Hill thousands of them along on hillside street. This is the first time we're able to turn a building around and get long term residents back in the neighborhood. We need that for stability. We need that for just livability. So I want to thank you all for entertaining this and hope you're supporting. Thank you. Madam Chair, there is one more person. Adam Sarbagu. I'm Chair members of the board. My name is Adam Sarbag, Community Alliance Board Member NHS Board Member and resident in Mission Hill. You heard from all of our elected strong support and MoH as well. You don't really need to hear from us. Further but we echo everyone's comments of support here and further in this process in a timely manner. Thank you very much. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm sorry. There is one more. Yes, one more. Martin. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Martin Weinbaum. I'm speaking on behalf of the Community Alliance of Mission Hill, the local civic association in this area. We agree with everything that was said. We need unanimously support the projects in our vote and think this is a highly meritorious application. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, without there, no additional comments. Okay. We have a motion. Madam Chair, this is a really good project. Sorry, go ahead. Go ahead, you want me. Thank you. A really good project and a happy to support, especially very pleased to see so much community support from the city and state, officials and organizations. I make a motion of approval. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. I concur that it appears to be a very good project and yes. Thank you, Mr. Monsia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bader Brasow. Oh, sorry. Ms. Poonato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair, it's just the motion carries. Good luck on. Thank you. Next, we have case BOA 180 5985 with the address of 11 to 118 Parker Hill Avenue. This is an article 80 project. So with the applicant and other representatives, please explain to the board. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony John Plagini on behalf of the proponent with me today is Alex Hune. From Montefrench Design Studio, the project architect. 11 Park Hill Avenue. The lot size is 22,069 feet. Zoning is multi-family residential one before. As Mr. Stambridge pointed out, it's an article 80 located on a regular shaped 22,000 square foot lot. Currently on this property is a 24 unit, a park building, which is also owned by the proponent. The proposal is to build a six-story addition to the rear of the existing building. Adding 71 additional units for a total of 95 apartments, seven off three parking spaces, and 86 bicycle spaces. The development will also include a menace space and communal roof deck. Of that proposal, 12 of these 71 new units will be offered as a fully units at 60% AMI. The existing building to which this addition will be attached will undergo no structural changes. It will just be updates to the side to better match the new addition. It underwent a full article 80 review from BPD. A was approved on November 13, 25. At this point, I'm going to pass it over to Alex Hune to walk through the plans and have it answer any questions. Appreciate your time, Ms. Pony. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm Mr. Lord. My name is Alex Hune. I'm an architect at Montefractions Design Studio. I will just quickly go through the project here. I believe most of my time will be spent explaining the sighting. If you can go to page four, please. Sorry. If you can go to page E C zero zero one, the fourth page of the PDF. This is a regular sheet site. It does have a long Parker Hill Avenue. It does turn the corner behind our neighbors at 17 and 19 Parker Hill. The majority of the site is behind these properties. The rear of the property, which is the south of this bottom of this page overlooks. The mission hill side as well as an electrical substation across the way. There is an existing force over the building that is that longer rectangular portion that is fronting Parker Hill. And then behind that is a current existing surface parking lot, which is accessed by on the right side, the dry vial. That a butthurt in neighbor at 15 Parker Hill. Next page, please. This is the proposed edition in the dark gray. We are proposing a six story edition that will add 71 units with a basement below that will house seven vehicular parking spaces. 71 enclosed bike parking spaces. A new fitness area and then as well as a new trash room that will serve the entire site and will move the existing to service. Exterior trash bin indoors. Next slide, please. This is just a front model set up. I'm sorry, we can skip this one. Our front yard is 20 feet unchanged. So this is to explain some of the site improvements. There is a landscape plan that was not included in this set, but we did commission burdened. A landscape design to provide robust open space and landscape design that was reviewed with the Boston planning department, but just to quickly go over the main site components, the existing building is in the longer, tangular, great portion. The dark gray at the bottom is the six story edition and then we do have a main drive out which is on the right of our frontage, which is 20 feet wide to accommodate a fire access lane that goes deep into the site and narrows down to a drive aisle that goes down into the parking below grade. On the left of parking, allowing the frontage, we do have an additional fire access lane that is required per the building code and fire department access requirements so that we have adequate coverage of fire truck access around the six story edition. Surrounding, filling out the remainder of the site, we do have a variety of open spaces and landscape areas on the front yard as well as these side yards, as well as some small terraces around as well as a new roof deck at the top of the six story edition. Next page, please. This is the basement I was referring to again, seven parking spaces enclosed, the 71 enclosed bike parking spaces, a new trash that will accommodate all of the 95 units that will be on the project in total once this project is completed. It will be changing to private pickup from the existing trash that is currently on site. Please. We do have a new consolidated entry lobby in mail package room, which is in the kind of corner between the existing building and the new addition that will consolidate what is currently two addresses, which is 1111A parker hill, which are the two walk up entries to the existing building that will be consolidated with the new proposed addition. So that there will be a single spot delivery for both mail and packages. Next slide, please. This is a typical floor plan. There will be 54 studios, five one beds and 12 two beds. Next slide, please. And then again, mention there's a common roof deck at the top of the the new six story edition. Next slide. This is the front elevation. As I mentioned before, this is the vertical edition to six stories, but what's not shown is that from a parker hill avenue, our neighbors at 15 and 17 are actually in front of this elevation so that this vertical edition is really taking advantage of the deep rear. The deep rear portion of the site that is sitting behind the smaller scale portion of the screen frontage that is primarily made up of three to five stories. And so that is relatively undisturbed from the street view. There's some other elevation, but I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, man, public testimony. Madam Chair and members, see you also with the Office of Neighborhood Services. The sapa can complete an article 80 community process led by Boston Planning Department. A public meeting was held on October 20th, 2025. We are concerned about the unit mix at this location. Members of the community do not want to see studio and micro studio units and prefer larger unit sizes. The file from BPD included five letters of opposition and four comments in support. The applicants have met with a community alliance of mission hell that back on our office to first judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have a researcher. Thank you, Madam Chair. For this opportunity to testify on mission hell resident, the one 129 fish and go lab. I'm very sorry to go in opposition to this project. I would hope that the board would look at the entire context. This same developer is building another unit across the street diagonally on another parking lot for about 40 or 50 units. In both cases, taking away existing parking, increasing the density tremendously and then has another project up the top of Parker Hill at the former Baptist nursing school with 114 units and about 10 parking spaces. In context, the developer is jamming studios all over Parker Street to the tune of about 225 units, minimal minimal parking. And this one in particular is down the end of a small narrow driveway at the precipice of the drop off below the power plant below it. It's a bad location. The density is too much. The number of units is too much. And the next is all wrong. And it's what this developer does all over mission hell lots of studios, good for strength and short time of students. That's not what the neighborhood needs and I would hope that you would oppose the project. Thank you. Next week, next week, Martin. Ben Warren. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm speaking on behalf of the community Alliance of mission hell and also as a mission here resident myself. We share similar concerns that were. What was mentioned and strongly opposed this proposal. What we heard is that the proposal is excessively dense. We are concerned about the very small rental units that are predominated by studios. The light with it is become another transient student dormitory, which would further steep destabilize our neighborhood coherence. What's also concerned about the lack of adequate parking in a narrow, very steep street where about us are already strapping for parking and another two similar parking deficient developments by the developers are in progress. I think maybe the most serious concern is traffic danger and congestion, which is exacerbated by the fact that the Baker center family and family children and families that's varying nearby uphill and by the absence of adequate accommodation for deliveries in emergency vehicles. In the end, there was near unanimous opposition to this proposal. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Next week, meet Hilton. Thank you. My name is Mitch Hilton. I live at 59 year Rukoi Street. I've been a mission hell resident for over 50 years. I'm proposing development. In my opinion, it does not benefit the neighborhood. It's too large. It's the wrong kind of apartments. And it's most definitely in the wrong location. Talked in on the side of the hill down a driveway that has been a surface lot. The top stretcher Parker, who left is narrow, difficult to navigate as is an extinguished some 20 years ago, a fire engine lost its brakes going down the hill, just perhaps a hundred yards away from the driveway that at the end of which this project is proposed. Firefighter Kevin Kelly lost his life that day. I don't think it is safe or good for the neighborhood to put 71 units in the location that's proposed. Thank you. Thank you. The last person that we have is Tyler Rose. Tyler, you can hear me yourself now. Thank you. Good evening. Madam Chair. I'm not good evening. Excuse me. Good morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. Tyler Ross, project mixing project manager, development, review department, the planning department. We reviewed this project and the planning department hosted two public meetings on August 13, 2025 and October 20, 2025, which were well attended and advertised in the newspaper. The planning department reviewed and supports this project as you know, stated six stories, 71 units. Adding an addition to the rear of an existing 24 unit building, totaling just under 49,000 close for area of the project will also contain seven parking spaces and 16 short term like parking spaces. And then with that, I will turn it back over. Thank you. Madam Chair, I think there are two more people. Eric. He's, are you talking about the exact same as the architect? All right. Okay. So, okay. So, if I could ask the applicant to comment on this. I'm keeping. Are you, are you here to provide comment? Okay. So, if the applicant could trust some of the concerns about unit mix and appropriateness for the area, etc. That would be really helpful. Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. First, I'd like to say that this went through extensive design between us, our engineer and BFT with respect to any sort of access or problems with respect to that. Also, we have this is located. I mean, this was very large. Look, this is what I have an acre a lot. We're, it's an under on the utilize section of this building that is press back. And with respect to the unit count, we, we're providing two beds, providing studios, providing a gamut of different type of how one bedrooms. And one thing that's important to know when you come in with, you know, three bed units, people talk about dormitories, you come in with studios and they're saying, well, it could be dormitories. This developer in property owner has hundreds of units, his portfolio is less than 15% undergraduates. And with respect to the smallest, the smaller units, that gives you the ability for people that are over housed to live in Mission Hill. And are, you know, their house is too much for them. It gives enough to you go someplace stay in the neighborhood and have a full service building for them. So that's. I have right now, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? If the, if the BPD project manager can expand on the community process, because what I was hearing from the committee members was that there was a lot of opposition. And I have not here heard from the project manager on BPD in regards to those that were present, you know, what was, what was kind of the recorded of opposition and what was their recorded kind of support for the project from the community that would be good to hear. Yeah, I was here playing apartment on project manager for the project. So as you heard in terms of opposition, I think you heard here was about Unimakes and Safety regarding the fire access and the site, the location being tight on on that on the site in the hill as that John just spoke about as Paul didn't just spoke. So the fire access had been discussed with our transportation planner who ensured us that it was safe in that. That's the fire department will be reviewing the plans. And so if the plans are not adequate to what the fire department standards then obviously the plans will not be approved by them, but our transportation planers, landscape planers, all of our internal planers that reviewed the plans. And so it seems to be confident that the fire access was safe and that it would be fine when Boston fire department review is in that aspect in terms of the unit mix. We did hear opposition in the public reading about the unit mix. I believe the project team adjusted the unit mix slightly to add. And so that was addressed somewhere by the proponent and then time to listen to the community and address those concerns. And then time to support for the project we heard from community members on the public meeting that more units are needed in mission hill because of the rising cost of housing and that, you know, putting more units and all Boston in general, just not specifically in the mission hill neighborhood will help alleviate some of the rising cost of rents in Boston. So that's some of the support that we heard. And this better, if I could just comment quickly, we also provided nine units to support for today's meeting as well. Thank you. Other questions on the board. Is there a motion? I'm really concerned about the committee process. I do see the nine letters of support, but I also see 21 opposed and with community alliance of mission, oh, along with the people who are present here on the meeting. And so with that, I would put forward a motion of denial without prejudice so that there could be a better community process to come back and resolve some of those issues. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. I'm going to vote no on this one. Mr. Turner. Yes. This better. I'm going to vote no because this is an article 80 and we article 80 positive are in front of us. Typically needs to bet out the community in regards to support more so support than opposition. So I'm going to say no. I agree with Mr. Barranza that you know, an article 80 processes occurred and been approved and I'm going to vote no. Mr. Collins. I would know as well. I would like to say that the motion is not carried. Is there another motion? Or I should know. Yeah, is there another motion? Yeah, I would vote for an emotion of approval. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stambridge. I would vote no. Even though it is an article 80 case, I don't believe it's better than that. Mr. Valencia. I vote yes and I want to ask the proponent to keep working with the planning department to see if they are able to modify the unit count or just keep it like that. I would love to have a vote. Yes. We will do that. Thank you. Mr. Turner. I know. Is better than I was. I'm going to vote yes, but I'm going to ask the BPD on future article 80 process. They should have a recording to present in front of the board that counts how many community members are voting to support the project versus those community members. So, I'd like to ask one more question. It's a fairly largely impacted and is an opposition. That information will be tremendous because I can see us trying it back. And voting no if we hear a lot of community opposition on in front of us. So, I just wanted to recommend that on a next on the next article 80 review project. Thank you. Mr. Cons. Yes. Chair votes yes, the motion carries. Thank you everybody and you are the rest of your day. Thank you. We are at 1116. So you motion carry. We're 1116. So we'll ask at this point. We'll jump to the wall. Yes. We'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from the time of the period. Hearing none, we'll return to the 930 hearings. And we will go through case BOA. 176. 4751 with the address of 33 Shelby Street. If the applicant is in the representative of the president, please explain to the board. The president is very sure. I think okay. Is Brian Glasgow speaking on behalf of this case? Yes, thank you. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Brian Glasgow. The president of 30, John's, would vote in Rosenthal and a member of the Shirley Eustace House board for about seven years. The request that you see before you today is really to memorialize a condition of pre-existing non-conformity that's been in this way for about the last 50 years. Shirley Eustace House was the colonial governor's mansion for. Surely it was the governor of the Massachusetts, but also under England, controlled all the British activities in the Caribbean as well. It was sort of the very essence of the British monarchy here in the new world. The House itself in the built in 1747 was moved at one point by its presence location. In fact, the Shirley Eustace House Association took over the Karen Control and Management and ownership of House early in the early 20th century. The House consists of a museum house above with one residential unit on the sort of garden level where we call it the basement, but it's really the first floor ladder. The second issue that we're seeking to get memorialized is the fact that it's existed all this time without any off-street parking. The House itself, we are open to the public and give many tours. There are also special events there. In all these years, we've never had any off-street parking on the site. This is really a pre-existing non-conformity. We could go through and look at some of the slides. I'd say our executive director says you can and prepare a nice slide except so you can sort of see if you haven't been to the House itself, it's truly amazing. It is survived all this time in Boston. It survived the British Revolution. It survived. The 9 neglect. It survived the rash of arson in the 50s and 60s and 70s. It really is an amazing piece of history that we have right here in the middle of Roxbury. If we could just quickly go through a couple of slides and then we can answer any questions you might have. I'll see the second. Please advance the slides. I'm not going to spend much time. Can the ambassador advance the slides? Yeah. And next slide. So let's get a pause here for a second just to see where it is in relation to the rest of Boston. Initially it was very close to the water back before the South Bay was filled in. This house is 42-44 Shirley Street. Can you stop right back at 42-44? This is a property that the Shirley Uses House Association acquired across the street. The former Stables, the building we're looking at here is the carriage house that was moved on to site. That was the carriage house from the Isabella Stewart Gardner estate that was slated to be demolished and we obtained it and moved it on site. The prior slide was 42-44 Shirley Street. That was the former Stables for the mansion in Governor Shirley. And it was also we later learned was home to some of the enslaved people that Governor Shirley had to do all such an office, his work around the estate as well as care for as many, many horses and carriages and so on. Next slide. Yeah, there's the listed names that we've been able to determine so far and we have tried to gather as much information as we can and you can find it around outdoors when there isn't four feet of snow on it that there's markers around the property telling you a little something about these people that were part of the estate. Next slide, please. This is some of the many activities we have with Roxbury Russell Day celebrating a strain of apples that was bred in Roxbury and was part of the orchards there. We also have a large and really fun Juneteenth celebration. We get the kids out. It's a really great gathering spot for the community. We have many events there. Also a private event weddings and things like that. Next slide, please. So this shows some of the things that done some onsite archaeology to try and find out more about what was going on there. I think in that very small picture that someone's hand there looks like a cowry shell which found its way to the site from Africa because they're not they're not native to the New England waters. And so and I like that was something that and belong to one of the enslaved people that lived there at 42 44 Shirley Street and then the final slide, please. And this tells you a little bit about the work we're doing at 42 44 Shirley Street trying to determine what the building really looked like. It was initially twice as big. And so we're in the process of fundraising and planning for how we interpret that building making it usable again, getting people into sort of show them that this part of history is still still here in Boston, still here in Roxbury. It's a it's a real thing you can see you can touch it. And it's all part of our collective histories and I appreciate the boards indulgence letting me take you on this little tour but it's not often a chance to tell people exactly how wonderful this site is. And again, I appreciate your indulgence and I'm open to any questions that might have about the legalization of all of this use as a museum house with a dwelling in it and relief from the requirements of off street parking. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery and the Roxbury Community Engage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an abundance meeting facilitated on September 15th. And with no of us present, the proposal moved forward and presented to Dudley Street neighborhood initiative on September 25th and with no opposition, the proposal was allowed to move forward in the process with its only board. Thank you for your time in the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer to the board for the judge. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a donor. If you can meet yourself, don't always. If not, we have Jerry. Jerry, we look. Yes, Madam Chairman and CBA board members. My name is Jerry Wheelock presiding at 10 Bill Moore Street to make a claim. I'm on the board of the Shirley East's House Association and we have the important need to upgrade our fire detection system in both the Shirley Street Mansion and the carriage house, which is a 15 Rockford Street parallel street. We have Boston landmark status, including the 42 44 Shirley Street property, but need to comply with all ISD requirements for code and online documentation to proceed with this project. Well, we have an ISD certificate of occupancy for the carriage house, but taking this variance is really essential to completing the change of occupancy, but status for our mansion. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Any other raise hands for support or opposition? We know how additional interest at the moment. Thank you. We don't have a motion. I'll make a motion approval. That over as a second. Second. It's just average. Thank you appreciate all the seconds. Mr. the bridge. Yes, but sure. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. It's better. Yes. Mr. Caron. Yes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have more companion cases. The first is BO case B.O.A. 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. The second is BOA 1809. We have POA 1809-764. The address is joking. That was from WE pomers and ready.ils are moneyzemers... is the special fund it was increased to 2000 bondage. Thedtor path Giving DMFF alongside James Molt Buffalo. the applicant, Jimmy Zew. And we also have Eric Zacherson from Context Design, who's the architect on the proposal. What you're looking at, and this is an existing conditions picture and view of the building. Well, it's a dog and mother chat. If you want to be recognized as a palace, would you please mute me? Thank you. Sorry, it's comprised of four buildings. A 96 and 98 are attached and 102 Winthrop Street are attached and all of the plans that we're proposing are typical of one another. So they're all similar in layout and design. What we're proposing is in line with what the BPDA recommended for approval and under their guidelines, which is to create additional housing opportunities within existing buildings without building out on the building. So all of the building, the contours of the building, would remain the same. What we'd be utilizing is this top floor pitch to attic spaces on all of the buildings. Currently, all of the buildings have rooms in that attic space. Part of them are finished, many of which are my client purchasing of those top locations are unfinished. And so just, we'd be changing the occupancy of all the buildings to add, one additional unit to occupancy for each of the four buildings. So a total of four additional occupied units. So at 96, just to go over these a little more clearly, I'll go to the next slide too. Mr. Best, thank you for saying that slide. 96 were proposing to go from seven and occupancy of seven to eight units, from 98, from six to seven, at 104 to five, and then 102, from six to seven. All of this space would be within the attic on two of the units at both 96 and 100, were proposing to demo the top and add two one bedroom units, and then on 96 and 102, were proposing to add two larger three bedroom units on site. If you take a look, even though this area is zoned as three family, you can see all of the similar apartment style complex or many apartment style complexes within the immediate area as well. So it is typical of this area for this kind of building. In the back through access of an existing curb cut and driveway, there is parking for about six spaces, and as part of this proposal, actually be making the building safer, they're gonna be completely sprinklered, as well as second means of egress off the top floor. The violations really, all are pre-existing. The only two that were increasing slightly for each building is the FAR, which has an existing FAR of 1.07, and we're proposing to go to 1.08, and then parking, because we're adding additional units, although this immediate area is 0.2 miles or walking distance, the Dudley station, as well as two bus routes right across from us, as well. And so all of these top floors are already have like a hodgepodge of rooms and bedrooms. My client is not utilizing them. Right now, we don't feel it safe. And so what we're proposing to do is add these units within the existing structure. With that, I can pause and answer any questions that the board may have. Thank you, appreciate. Are there questions from the board? Can you just describe how you're accomplishing the second means of egress from that top floor? Air exact as in what I see is one here. I think it could be the best to describe that, Ms. Panna. Yeah, thank you. I can answer that. So the existing, the building has a central stair in the front and has a stair in the rear that goes up from the basement to the third floor. We'd be extending that common stair in the rear with building. Yeah, you see that at the very top of the page there. I'm not going to get that second means of egress. Great, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jarra B. B. Bembery. I'm the Roxbury Community and Gage and Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consisted of an abutus meeting facility intended on July 10th. That was not very well received by the community. Abutus while recognizing the need for housing. Voice concerns for the increased density, parking and traffic congestion along with the increased and current road and activity from the lack of property maintenance. Abutus spoke confused on how, oh, why any variances would be allowed considering the property is already a problem property. Abutus complained of an overflowing dumpster that also takes up parking spaces, increasing the roaded issue and exacerbating the parking issue. The rear butus was opposition to the proposal for those reasons. Next to proposal was presented to Roxbury Path forward, where they voted in opposition to the proposal may tend to the theme of the concerns and opposition as well as stating the areas too small and too narrow. To date, our office has received one letter of opposition from the Roxbury Path forward sent to the board for review. Thank you for your time and the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Carol to this call. Yes. Good morning. That thank you for calling me. I'm in Abutus within a few home homes of theirs. And I'm opposed because number one, the street is way too dense to support more apartments going in. I mean, I know that we've had a snow storm, but if you came down our street right now, it is beyond you can't even get around that corner with those homes out. But besides the fact of that, I'm very afraid. Those buildings were built in the 1800s. They're over 100 years old. And to add more families to the top floor, I'm afraid that it's going to cause a fire hazard, lose lives, because one of the buildings, the brick wall that supports the building, had collapsed once already, and it had to be rebuilt. So my concern is on top of it being two dents for the neighborhood, adding more families, I believe it's going to be a fire trap. The homes are closed together. If one house gets on fire, you're looking at six large apartment buildings all going on fire. There's no place to park. It's just not acceptable on our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, and we have another person, Lorraine. Good morning. I'm here this morning on behalf of the Roxbury Path Forward Neighborhood Association. And as you heard, we met with the developer several times, and the neighbors are just against this. And most of these reasons have been stated well by Carl and also by Jeremy. But I want to tell the board, I don't know if you received it, but I sent you photos of the parking behind the building. It's simply unacceptable. I don't know how the Boston plan could approve this. They have dumpsters, and they might have room for six cards altogether, but they already have 27 apartments. And these buildings were built as three on each side, side by side apartments. And so the number of people on this property is just too much for the neighborhood, which is still. Wins of Street is primarily three family buildings, home ownership buildings. And they would be taking more than their share of the parking. And in addition to that, if you see the photo, you see for yourself, there's one car that's parked almost on the stairs behind the building. That is just not reasonable to suggest that the parking can be used that way. So we're going to ask that the board oppose this project at present. And then just one other thing about the bus line, there is a bus line on Bluehila Avenue, but it is incredibly slow, and we'll not get you to work on time. And so, and we don't have local jobs. And so therefore, people drive. And as Kyle stated, the street is already overwhelmed by the number of cars that are there. So thank you very much. Any other questions from the board? Because the applicant was to address any of those concerns. Thank you, Madam Chair, appreciate it. So I just want to point out the space in the top floor that we're looking to utilize is already existing space. So my client purchased it. Half of it was unfinished. Half of it already had bedrooms up there, which he isn't using. The occupancy on two of the buildings reflects that. That space is being counted towards the general occupancy. What we're looking to do is, one, I know is mentioned concerns about fire. Make the building safer. It'll be fully sprinklered with two means of egress. Two, utilize that space. We're not expanding the building. I know it was mentioned that density is an issue within the building, but we're simply cleaning up those floors and adding two, three better units. And then someone met me as for a total increase of occupancy of four units, which is exactly what the BPDAs recommendation had mentioned. I realize parking is an issue that seemed to be the general concern. We are near the bus route. We are within walking distance of the T. There's also a playground directly across the street for additional open space. And we're not expanding the footprint of the building at all. My client has a property management company that manages the buildings. We actually have dumpster pickup once a week for the buildings as well. When we went to the meeting, it was mentioned that was concerned about rodents. He has an exterminating company that comes by once a week. There's been no signs of road and activity. There's been no ISD issues on the building or citations or anything like that, which we check. And we did update the Civic Association on all of those points that they asked us to look into. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? But I'm sure I like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. I believe in these more work, no. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. No. Mr. Barranza. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Are you in mute, Mr. Collins? You're in mute, Mr. Collins. Are you OK? Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Remember the point. Next, we have case bill. The bill wasn't bad, chair. We passed the 1130 time frame. I ask if there are any request for withdrawals or deferrals. So from the 1130 time frame. Requesting deferral for 62L Street. What's the name so that would be for case BOA? 15754525. With the address of 62L Street. You go ahead and find a place. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is David Luciano, one hour of 62L Street in South Boston. We had gone through the community process and worked with our director of butteries that were previously opposed. To our projects, but we came to an agreement. We've submitted or we are submitting the final paperwork today. To ISD for the revised plans. We requested a forral to. Wait for approval from ISD and conduct our. Butters meeting. Then. I'm sorry. You need. Sorry. Nothing. April 7th, April 28th on May 5th. April 28th. Okay, over that man on the motion. Motion to defer until April 28th. Thank you. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. The product. Yes. Is that a brazo? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Share votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Any further requests for which are also the first from the 1130. Yes. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge 49 through 51 calendar street and sister application 53 calendar street. Please. So this would be for case BOA 176. 6723 with the address of 49 to 51 calendar street along with case BOA 176. 6728 with the address of 53 calendar street. Go ahead. 20th. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board of attorney Ryan Spitz, but that is a grant from the Nancy business address of 168 street first floor. So Boston requesting a deferral as they were some inconsistencies that were just cleared out with the refusal letters that they need to be re-advertised. Okay. Stephanie, we're going to do this one for March 24th. We already have the schedule to be re-advertised. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to defer until March 24th. There's a second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Oh, his turn. Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Martin. So request. Yes. Going to be requesting a deferral for 183 St. Patel Street. No, it wasn't included. So this would be a request to defer for case of dealing 1741777 with the address of 183 St. Patel Street, which go ahead and explain for us. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board of Attorney Justin Burns from Pogini and Norden Business Address, 10 Forbes, Road, Brain Tree, Massachusetts, the proponent of the design team have been discussions with the landmarks department in regards to some design components of our project. And based on those discussions, we are beginning a re-evaluation of the design of the project so we will be a little more time to complete that process. Okay. April 7th, April 28th of May 5th. I will do May 5th. On motion. Motion to defer on to on May 5th. And second. Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Excuse me, yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berrazo. Yes. Mr. Pado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. There are no more requests for withdrawals in the front. We'll return to the case to the 9.30 AM cases. Yes. That will take us to case B.O.A. 178. 4126 with the address of 634, Dorchester Rapp. The applicant in or their representative of President. Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Orrante. Business address of 168H Street, first floor. So Boston, joining me today is the project architect. They're exact. They're proposing in front of you today seats to change the occupancy from a free family to a four family dwelling by legalizing an existing garden level unit by maintaining the footprint of the building. Unit will have its own private entrance. I would also like to note for the board that this is a garden level unit with the full walk out in the rear. There is a substantial gray difference that runs from the front of the property to the rear. Property is also abouting the Mary Alma Cormorant housing development, which is currently under construction to redevelop the site with substantial heights in a substantial increase in units. By way of history, Mr. Wardway purchased the property over 20 years ago with the existing garden level space built in. At that point, this property was owned occupied in Mr. Wardway, utilized the finished space to house his family close relatives that had no place to reside. Further, it's always been Mr. Wardway's presumption that the property was owned by the local property. The property was owned by the local property and was always considered legal habitable space. However, it was discovered during this application that when he purchased the building over 20 years ago, the space was never legalized as living space. This proposal was very closely aligned with the mayor's by right conversion of internal spaces to accessory dwelling units except that it is best or owed. This possible falls with the old most base zone code with an additional 4 square feet. Two bedrooms with 8-foot sounds. We have violations for a lot area and additional lot area. The current lot size is 2,071 square feet, which is pre-existing non-conformance. The lot size requirement here in the old base code is 5,000 square feet in a thousand square feet for each additional unit. Lot with does another pre-existing non-conformance of the dimensions of the lot that was cited. We have a floor area ratio violation. The required FARs at 1.0 and the proposal calls for a 1.8. Again, this is proposed with subject to the old base code zoning rather than an MFR, which is one block away that has an FAR of a 2.0. However, the density is consistent with other neighboring FARs along this block. We also lastly have an on-street parking violation as the proposal does not provide any parking for the new unit of housing, but it is a very close walk to the end-usquare train station. I am aware of the recommendation of denial put forward by the planning department based upon the CEFRA. However, I would like to remind the board that the CEFRA is not applicable as this proposal does not meet any of the applicable requirements as set forth within section 25A-4 of the code. Also, there was a carbon copy of this proposal located at 630 due to a trust of Avenue, which is two parcels down from this one, where the recommendation of the planning department was approval with design review as the property fell within the CEFRA. There is a discrepancy between the two recommendations, but we asked that the same relief be granted for this proposal as it was for 630 due to a trust of Avenue. I also want to remind the board that this little space has been in existence for over 20 years despite not being legalized, and is also again a full walk out in the rear. In concluding, we feel that the proposal would not create any adverse impacts to the neighborhood and is consistent with the other reasonable rules of God and level units, as well as meeting the mayor's initiative of increasing unit counts by maintaining the structures of the building itself. So at this point, Madam Chair, I'm going to turn it over for any questions or comments from the board. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Are you remodeling at all? Or are you just putting, is it just existing plans that you're trying to make a legal occupancy? Yes, so that's a great question, Hansi. The plans are, is nothing else is being done to the actual three units. I believe there's some slight changes being made to the actual basement. I know Eric Zarterson is here today. I think those are mostly digging out to require the full entrance, the private entrance on the side, the right hand side of the property itself. But Eric, if you're here, if you can comment on that as well, please. Yeah, the main thing is that we have to add a sprinkler system, a sprinkler system to the unit. So, I think that the wall configuration is going to be the same as has been in place for quite some time. Okay, so if you were to provide basement flooding kind of mitigation, that would, that would not really necessarily work because it seems like your modifications are very minimum. It's not like you're not redoing floors. That's a great question. Okay. Great. Thanks for responding to my question. And I think it's really, it will be great to hear Jeff Hampton in regards to what attorneys basically mentioned in terms of the discrepancies between the two recommendations. Yes, thank you. Mr. Bedabarazzo. You want to know that? Yeah, thank you. That means the board. Jeff Hampton, City of Boston cleaning department. Now, we acknowledge that three years ago, we made a different recommendation, but that was also at a time where the policy moving forward is this board knows now. We don't support units that are within the seafront. We've done it all over the city, whether it be the south end, the north end, south Boston. Over time, we've seen the policy change and we do acknowledge that back then. We did design review to address the seafront issues, but because this wasn't any sort of exterior changes, we don't ask for that anymore to deal with the seafront. Our policy is to bend to deny these new units. And this has been very consistent over the last, I'd say, probably two and a half years. If I could just respond briefly, Madam Chair. Sure. So also, I just, again, I just like to highlight the planning department is forward with us, considered a full basement units underground. Again, there's substantial grade changes going from the front of the property to the rear of the property, which makes it a full walk out in the rear, which is very consistent with that 630 doHS Arab and you property that was approved by the sport as well. I think it's pretty, do you have an elevation that you can show us for the back of the building so we can see the garden level that you are referring Eric, was there one fear? If you roll a scroll up a couple of pages, I just know if anything or two that'll show how it drops off. If we can scroll up a little bit. And then, Mr. Sparrow, can you also let us know what is the trigger for the seafraw to be applied to this address? Yeah, so it's a minor main place. So, it triggers this is typically on-the-lady projects, anything 50 units. So, it's about anything 15 units or above or Oracle 80. So, given that this is a smaller scale, it doesn't necessarily apply. Yes. Okay, thanks. Any other questions from the board? Apologies. If we could go back to the plan, I can explain the elevation change. I guess there isn't an elevation included on this set, but I can show it on the plan. So, I think about that because the planet, the planet refers to these spaces, the basement and your reference with the basement is garden level. So, I really wanted to see if there is a way to ensure that this is another basement. Yeah, if you could scroll to the page below this one. And I can show you on the ground floor plan what and how this works. One down one page, please. Yeah. So, on the left side here, you see the basement. And the bottom right-hand corner, it shows the gate from the sidewalk. So, the sidewalk is the bottom right-hand corner of the going on the left. Immediately, as you go through that gate, you go down seven steps. So, you're going down almost four feet right away. That's why many of these windows show window wells. The windows are above the sidewalk. When those are normal sized windows, and the bottom of them is above the kind of grade around them. And then to get into the unit, you see another three steps going down. But at the very back of the building, you see that it is almost exactly at grade. When you go through the back of the unit, through that little mechanical space with the sprinkler equipment. And now, at the back door, you're within six inches of grade at the rear. So, well, the front of the building, the unit, doesn't present much more than a couple of slim windows in the bay window. But all the rest of the windows are above ground. And how do you access the unit from the street? You go through that side gate, and then down those seven steps and then down three more steps into the unit. Okay, just look at the street view. I see like it is a good gate. That seems pretty old. And I was wondering, is it the main access to the unit? Now would be the main access. Yes, we would put an address on it and have a room and replace the gate. Thank you. What's the total square footage of the project? The unit would be the gross square footage of the basement, exploding mechanical spaces, 990 square feet. Okay, so it is going back to what triggers C5 is less than 10,000 square feet. Okay, thank you. So the total living area for all four units, if this was approved, would be 3831 with the flurry or ratio of 1.85. All right, with that, let's have public testimony and we can circle back any other questions. Yes, see, the office of neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the community process. Our office hosted in a butters meeting on October 22nd, 2025, at which no concerns were raised. The applicant met with the Andrew Square Civic Association, which supported the application, but requested an additional review to ensure compliance with the egress requirements of the building code with that background. And our offer is judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, next we have Ashley. Hi, my name is Ashley from Councillor Flynn's office. Councillor Flynn likes going record and support based on a thorough community process and work with the neighbors and the Andrew Square Civic Association, when the proponent agreed to provide animal resistant trash barrels for all four units, install exterior lighting, and improve the building's appearance through power washing and painting the trim and facade. With Andrew Square Civic Association support contingent upon updated plans being deemed compliant, Councillor Flynn believes this project will move forward in a way that respects the community. Thank you. Thanks. Next we have, Lee Ann Vremus. Hello, I'm Chair members of the board, Lee Ann Vremus from Councillor Fitzgerald's office. Our office is like on record to board this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Mother and children, I know these are not comments. Any other questions from the board? We have a motion. Madam Chair, I'd like to prefer a motion of approval. And the reason why is I do think that the project has had a habo abasement for a very long time. I do think that it doesn't necessarily trigger the seafraw because the project is less than $10,000, less than 15 units. What I would recommend is that the architect really locates mechanical systems above a height that seems reasonable if there was to ever be a flood. So I do think there is an exception to this project. Is there a second? Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stumbridge. Yes. Mr. Alencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Blado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. But with that, I'm going to have us take a 15 minute break. Come back. Probably to the interpretation. All right. Thanks, guys. Recording stopped. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Valencia. Present. Mr. Turner. Present. Mr. Berrazo. Present. Mr. Bernardo. Present. Mr. Collins. I don't know. All right. We've got our joyous Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Berrazo. Present. Mr. Bernardo. Present. Mr. Collins. I don't know. All right. We've got our joyous Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. Yeah. And the passing powder. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. And the passing powder. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry about that. Hey. Just again. Case BOA, 1 181, 0164. With the address of 46 to 47 Beacon Street. If the applicant and or their representative are present. with their plans to explain to the boil. Yes, my name is Michael Bowie, and I represent one of the applicants. Are you presenting or is someone else presenting? Yeah, actually, I'm sorry, I'm presenting. And Matthew Furman is also on the panel, but he represents the world, but he is, I'll be the main presenter here. I'm a head Mr. Fischau, our traffic engineer. Okay, and please, please focus on the zoning relief issues. I know there are a lot of issues that you cited, so thank you. Yeah, thank you very much. So my name is Michael Murray. I'm a land use litigator with Nixon Peabody and Boston, and I represent Connor, Leanne and Katie Leanne, who along with Robert and Lee Ward, are challenging the issuance of a 2025 alteration permit, authorizing the creation of eight luxury dwelling units, and a 16 car garage at 46 to 47 Beacon Street. The Leanne's are a young couple with a newborn child who have lived in their home at five to seven screw squirts since October 17th, 2025, after purchasing the property in July of 2025. With me as Matthew Furman, a land use litigator with Todd and Wellen and Boston, he represents the words, who have lived at three screw squirts since 2025. The Leanne's and the Ward's are deeply concerned with the impacts that the proposed 16 car garage will have on their property and screw squirt, which is their sole means of access to their homes. If we can turn to slide one, which is already showing, it shows screw squirt from screw, I'm sorry if you could go back to the page one, you had it on the correct page. So this shows screw squirt from screw stream. Screw squirt is a narrow cobblestone way that has existed for many decades and has never seen the type of automobile traffic that will result if 36 to 47 Beacon's garage project in fact in the roughly 100 year old building at 46 to 47 Beacon has never provided parking. If we now move to slide two please, we see a plot plan superimposed on a stamped plan prepared by Feldman land surveyors laying out the area. You can see the Ward's property and the Leanne's property to the upper right. Directly below their properties is an area marked three to seven screw squirt fee interest parking area which I'll get into in a minute. The bottom half of screw squirt is an established 10 foot wide fire lane. Toward the bottom right is 46 to 47 Beacon, the location of the proposed garage. Now if we turn to slide three, it reflects the result of a lawsuit that the previous owner of 46 to 47 Beacon brought against the prior owners of the Leanne's and the Ward's properties to prevent parking on the northern half of screw squirt. The land court ruled that the owners of three and five to seven screw squirt also owned the more than 10 feet of screw squirt in front of their properties and have a right to park there. And the 36 to 47 Beacon had access rights through the fire lane on the southern half which had to remain open. Now if we could go to slide four please. 46 to 47 Beacon's prior owner appealed that land court decision but the appeals court affirmed in 2012. Now if we could flip back to the very first slide the photograph on the very first page. So this shows that screw squirt poses significant maneuverability issues even without the addition of any new automobile traffic. Notably going all the way back to 1962 when the current rights to screw squirt were created, we have not seen any evidence that 46 to 47 Beacon has ever regularly used screw squirt for automobile use which makes sense because 46 to 47 Beacon has always had access on Beacon Street. Screw squirt therefore is just a back alley to 46 to 47 Beacon. But to the lands and to the waters screw squirt is their sole legal means of accessing their homes. Before purchasing 46 to 47 Beacon the developer knew of these existing tight conditions. The developer knew that any plans that made pursuit for the property must accommodate the fact that the homes along screw squirt needed screw squirt as their only means of access and had a right to park along the northern 10 feet. And the developer knew that whatever use it made of screw squirt could not result in blockages to the fire lane. Clearly the developer should have thought twice before planning any garage on this little way here and at a minimum should have obtained a careful and thorough traffic analysis showing that a garage was feasible. This is especially true if we turn to slide six please. And this is where we get to zoning. So this slide shows 23-90 of the Boston zoning code which requires that all off street parking facilities be designed so as to avoid creating a nuisance, hazard or unreasonable traffic impediment. In its written submissions to this door the developer's only response to this provision was to argue that it applies only to parking garages that are needed in order to satisfy on-site parking requirements. Developers interpretation is clearly wrong because of regulation unabidiously reports to apply to an I quote, all off street parking facilities. Therefore the fact that the garage is not required under zoning and the developer has instead chosen to pursue it in order to sell its dwelling units for even more money does not exempt the developer from section 23-9E. However the developer's mistaken belief that it can ignore this provision may explain why the developer never took traffic impacts seriously. Now if we turn back to slide one please which shows again the sort of very tight conditions that pre-existed. Thank you very much. The developer did have enough sense to know that the garage project would be strongly opposed by those who live on Spruce Court. But instead of working with them the developer figured out a way to get its garage project permitted underneath the public radar and basically in the cover of darkness. Thus in 2024 the developer sought and obtained an alteration permit to allow the conversion of the property to dwelling units only, no parking whatsoever. Then in August of 2025 and without informing any of those who live on Spruce Court the developer sought a second alteration permit to allow the conversion to eight dwelling units and the 16 car garage. This is a two to one parking ratio which as far as we can tell is unheard of for any new projects in Boston. As far as we can tell the developer did this without informing the inspectual services department about the parking rights of the lands and the rewards without telling the ISD that the southern half of Spruce Court is a fire lane and without providing any valid traffic analysis showing that the garage project can satisfy zoning code provision section 239E. Now if we could turn back to slide six please, which is the zoning provision, once we found out that the permit had issued we immediately tried to get our hands on as much of the information as we could about the project. And even more importantly we retained Mr. Robert Mischo, a traffic engineer with 37 years of experience and the president and managing principal of MDM Transportation Consultants Inc. We asked Mr. Mischo to analyze the garage project. Am I so wrong? Yes, we might have missed like a word or two. Okay, I'm sorry. We asked Mr. Mischo to analyze the garage project and determine whether the lands and the wards have reason to be concerned. Mr. Mischo performed a thorough analysis actually. I'm sorry we're having a couple of tech issues on our side but I don't think it's interrupting what y'all are hearing. So, Mike please go ahead. Okay. Mr. Mischo performed a thorough analysis. Actually several of them with section 2390 and mine. The results of Mr. Mischo's analysis are so wrong and they are the primary reason why we are here today. Now would like to turn our presentation over to Mr. Mischo to describe his analysis and summarize his professional conclusions. Thank you, Michael. Again, Robert Mischo with MDM Transportation Consultants. As Michael mentioned, MDM has been retained to provide an assessment of circulation to from the garage to determine whether or not vehicles could be reasonably accommodated within the confines of court, the court. And in context of the parking rights and location of a fire lane that exists within Spruce Court. And ultimately, as I'll walk the board through, I have concluded that using well-established modeling protocols, normally and customarily used for projects, for instance, that are subject to article 80 review, that there is insufficient area within the court to reasonably accommodate a standard design vehicle that would need to access and egress the garage. Noting further that the intensity of use of the court would quadruple from its existing and historic use levels, rather significant change in potential burden on the court, particular in the light of constraints that we know exist and that were modeled and demonstrated to not properly accommodate certain vehicle types. In the next slide, if you could advance, would indicate the modeling that we conducted, which in this example, what is referred to as an ashto standard design vehicle. This is a design standard that's regularly applied to size and evaluate impacts of roadway facilities and circulation areas. It relies on a vehicle dimension that's upwards of 19 feet long, seven feet wide. It is intentionally sized to ensure that vehicle maneuver, ability is reasonable and would not unnecessarily require the use of spars or undo proximity to or up to or beyond geometric constraints, whether that's a park vehicle or a garage structure in this case. And you'll see that through the modeling of this particular design vehicle, that in the entering movement to the garage, the garage door opening only being 12 feet nine inches wide, that there's a substantial encroachment into the fee interest area of spruce court shown in the yellow that essentially comes within several feet of the northerly curviline of the court. The next slide would indicate a similar result. You, in this case, a vehicle attempting to exit the garage using that same design vehicle type that shows, again, a substantial encroachment into that fee interest area that would not be feasible, correct, frankly, with any parking activity within the fee interest area, showing the encroachment again to be somewhere between three and five feet of that curviline. In deference to attempting to understand what vehicle types might be able to use the garage, we then turn our focus on another vehicle design type called ULI composite vehicle, which is really representative of 85% of the vehicle types that may be inclined to use the garage. We've also, as we've done in this example, shown parking activity within the fee interest area, within one foot of the curb, although there's no specific city ordinance that would obligate that parking that close to the curb in this case, we nonetheless, as a fair representation of impact, have shown those vehicles parked again in the fee interest area within a foot of that normally curb. The next slide, if you could advance one slide, shows that smaller vehicle type, which is 17 feet, three inches long, it's about six and a half feet wide. This particular entering movement would also indicate a substantial material encroachment into that fee interest area of several feet upon trying to enter into that 12 foot nine inch opening. And finally, in the next slide, you'll see the equivalent movement on exiting the garage, which itself also shows an encroachment into that fee interest area, not an insignificant encroachment, an encroachment that for any parking activity within the fee interest area, would impact vehicles that are parked there. If you could advance just one more slide to demonstrate that second movement that we've modeled. So again, an encroachment of several feet into that area. I wanna emphasize that this model of the smaller vehicle very precisely assumes that the movements that are being made to or from the garage come within an inch of either the door structure or the structural opening of the garage. That condition, quite frankly, would rely on spotters in a very precise movement of the vehicle. So even in an ideal circumstance, using a smaller vehicle type, demonstrates the inability to reasonably circulate to or from the garage within that, that's the core area. We are also aware, you may hear testimony that the developer has conducted field testing of two vehicle types within the court, one on January 20th of this year, and again, in February 20th, the January testing involved a smaller vehicle, smaller than what's actually demonstrated here in this model at 16 feet four inches, which in their field test, which is video documented, took a vehicle over eight minutes using two spotters to actually maneuver from the garage. On February 20th, an even smaller vehicle was used, 15 feet four inches in length, which also indicated even under the smaller vehicle type, the need to see saw, if you will, to properly maneuver into or out of that garage structure. The developer had subsequently retained engineering expertise to conduct its own modeling, swept out modeling, which we've reviewed and have identified as inappropriately making certain assumptions that are impractical or unlikely to occur. For instance, parking within the fee interest area, that is two feet from the curb using only compact vehicles, using vehicles that in fact are smaller than the typical vehicles that may be inclined to use the garage, that very precisely require the same movements that are shown here, but with, on their own modeling, a demonstrated need to impact structural elements of the garage, notably the garage door. So we conclude on the basis of our analysis using industry standard modeling, modeling that's normally, the normal customary to our glady type project, for instance, that it is not reasonable accommodation for access to or from the garage, that the intensity of use of the court will be substantial if it will, and in fact go from one vehicle an hour to four vehicles per hour, based on the number of parking spaces that are being provided within that garage structure to the one ratio. And that in the instance of even a standard vehicle of 17 foot length, 17 feet three inches, that the likelihood will be the impact of sea sowing back at fourth of your well for extended periods of time upon trying to exit that garage. That itself will provide an impediment to the regular use of the fire lane. It will create an impediment to the ability for fee interest owners of Spruce Court to enter the court, or exit the court during those extended periods of maneuverability, and presents a material consequence to the owners of the court as well as to the regular ability to access the fire lane for the use. So we conclude as assembly not feasible and will result in a substantial and detrimental impact to the court. Thank you. Question, thank you. Well, I'm sorry, I just got a wrap up and I'll just be probably two, three minutes. Now we believe that Mr. Misho's testimony and reports true that the developer has not met and cannot meet its burden of satisfying the zoning standard in 239E. Now if we could quickly turn to slight 11 please. In our written submissions, we also identify other zoning code provisions that we contend they're violated by the Garage Project. Namely, the inclusionary zoning ordinance, our position is on that is that the developer's project is required to provide one unit of affordable housing plus a six-figure payment towards affordable housing, but the developer is only providing luxury units and no payment. And we'll also explain why the parking area fails to comply with handicap accessibility requirements. We trust that this board will carefully consider those arguments, and we will be happy to answer whatever questions you may have about them, but we otherwise don't want to take up the board's time with that in this oral presentation. So I'd like to end by noting that the Garage Project, if it is allowed to proceed, will benefit only the developer. It will harm those who rely on screw-score as their only means of access and parking, while giving the developer a second means, a second means of access, that it does not need and that the property has never before used on a regular basis. It will hurt the public interest and public safety by adding unmanageable congestion to the fire lane for the sake of an unheard of two-to-one parking ratio for new luxury condominient projects. It will give the back of the developer's hand to the need for affordable housing. It will violate accessibility rights, and it will do all this without providing any public benefit to the city, what so right where. The lands and the ward, thank you for your attention to this matter and your careful consideration of their appeal. Thank you. Is there anyone from ISD who's present to speak to these points? I was Mike Joseph. I don't believe the developer is here because we have the plans here, the premieres will issue it. I'm here if you'd like. Oh, you're right. I'm here with him. Man, sure. Okay, I don't know if he wants to respond to that. Mike Joseph. Please don't get out of here first, Mr. Tri-Ross, and then we'll turn it up, Mr. Joseph. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name's Mike Ross, I'm a part of the law from the principal of L. And here on behalf of the developer, 46th Sailor LLC, along with co-counsel Joe Hanley, a partner with the Dr. McWoolton Mailer Hanley, we submitted an opposition brief on this matter, on January 18th, as well as a supporting memorandum on February 23rd from Doug Anderson, a former city of Boston plans examiner of six years and currently in charge of co-consulting services for the International firm, Wrenkiss, and Doug's also here if needed. The attorneys for the owners of Spruce Court, who just spoke, have conflated today's hearing by bringing in the extraneous building permits, building permits that are well outside the 45-day appeal period over a year old. The only matter that is before this board today is whether the building permit that was issued on November 24th, 2025, by the building commissioner was properly issued or whether the building commissioner air and should have refused the permit and sent it to the zoning board of the bill. That permit, ALT 1796638, reduced the number of units in 46th beacon streak from 11 to 8, and includes ground floor accessory parking. Both are allowed uses. Unfortunately, we believe that we are here for one reason and one reason only to cause delay to this project and to ultimately be tied up in court. I know there's a tradition of this board to not place itself in the middle of litigation, and I just would like to know that these parties are presently amid litigation. 46th beacon streak is located in Beacon Health sub-district where housing and accessory parking are both allowed uses. Property is a pre-code structure, meaning it was built before December 31st, 1964. If the attorneys for the Spruce Coron is well correct, and the building permit before the board to reduce the number of units from 11 to 8, and include the allowed accessory parking, both allowed as right, it would trigger zoning relief on every similar project that would now need to be approved by this board. They're essentially asking you to supplant the authority granted to ISD, the Chief Enforcement Officer under the Nable Act, to review and determine zoning compliance. This is an as-of-right project, nothing in this building permit or in the zoning code, triggers the need for relief. As referenced in my memorandum in Doug Anderson's memorandum, Article 23, section 9E, deals with parking design and durability, exempts pre-code structures, pursuant to Article 23, section 7A, stating, quote, only the additional number of dwelling units, additional number of dwelling units, shall be counted in computing the off-street parking facilities required. Here, there is a reduction, not addition of units, and that does not trigger zoning. Likewise, Article 23, section 10, which deals with the maintenance of the parking facility, specifically included the language that it only applies to parking spaces, quote, provided to comply with this article so long as a use requiring them exists. So too, with Article 23, section 11, which deals with parking accessibility, this project is a renovation, because there are fewer than 12 units, it does not trigger accessible units, and therefore does not trigger accessible parking. This does not mean that developers of as-of-right projects can build whatever they want. They can't. They must comply with the state building code. They need to be approved by Boston ISD and with all the other agencies, including Boston Fire, Boston Water and Sour, the Public Improvement Commission, and the like. The appellant misrepresented themselves before this board stating that this project was not reviewed by the Boston Fire Department. This is not true. The project went before Boston Fire, not once but twice. First, as shown in the online portal printouts that I submitted to the board, it was checked off as approved by the Boston Fire Department. And second, this project went before the city's Public Safety Commission on Licenses, where a member of the Fire Department sits on December 17, 2025, to determine that the garage is being lawfully and safely used. I know this because I was in the room at the time as worthy of balance attorneys, virtual. The appellant is claiming that the project cannot possibly comply with Article 23, because it requires multiple terms to get in and out of the garage, eight minutes to get in and out of the garage. What they fail to mention is that they are deliberately parking their car in violation of Boston parking laws, and Boston parking laws apply, even to private lanes like this, in front of the garage door to prohibit ingress and egress to the garage. A photo doesn't lie. This red car is owned by one of the appellants. It is parked purposely in the middle of the street, so as to directly block ingress and egress to the garage, which is a deliberate misreading of the Land Court decision that was cited, that prohibits parking in a manner that obstructs access. This is obstructive behavior intended to stop this allowed as well as a project. In addition, we've supplied this board with a turning analysis from our license traffic engineer that shows compliance access to the parking in this project. When their car is not purposely blocking, and not only that, but in the last 100 years, Spruce Court has been home to at least three garages, beginning with a coarse and buggy, and later on automobiles, and then including a housing of their own fuel pumps within. And just finally today, they volunteered that the developer sought to apply for the garage permit under the cover of darkness, when it initially applied for its 2,024 permit without garage. Again, this is not true. The project was in litigation with the Beacon and Architectural Commission at that time relating to the garage door, a case that the developer won. But because the question of the garage door, and therefore the garage was in question, pending the outcome of the court case at the time of commencing construction, the developer began without garage. And so the ALT at the time reflected the project with only the units without the garage. Once they won the lawsuit, they filed their new ALT. This November, 2024 ALT that has the garage entered. All above radar, all within almighty day. Let me just turn it to Joe Hamley was a few points to hit, and then we'll conclude. Hello, Madam Chair, members board. Tony Joe, handling, the return of Colton Miller and handling, representing the developer with co-counsel Mike Ross. I think Mike did a really good job talking about the zoning issues and what's really going on here with respect to issues that are outside of the ZDA's purview. Rights and in alleyways and things of that nature. Madam Chair, you asked the right question, the first question, which has keep this to the zoning issues. There are no zoning issues here. What the appellants are asking you to do and this board to do is to supplant the authority in the legal jurisdiction of the building commissioner of ISD under the acts chapter 655 of 1956, which is the enabling act, little different than other cities and towns. And it gives a lot of authority to ISD, as you know, to interpret occupancy based on permits and compliance with zoning. This project is 100% zoning compliant, as Mike indicated. And if you look at Doug Anderson's opinion, which we submitted for this board, again, Doug was a planned examiner for six years with ISD 30 years of experience as a code examiner, speaking to custom and practice, as well as how Article 23 operates. It does not apply unless you're required to create parking. That has nothing to do with how you get in and out. Now, our expert did, in fact, conduct and submit it in half of David on the new verability, even though it's not required. So the Article 23 zoning issue is not a zoning issue. It was reviewed. It was interpreted properly by ISD, and there's no reason to simply have their authority on that. Finally, I would just say I think a council member or one of the attorneys for the appellant had mentioned a new article 79, which went into effect for projects who apply after November 1 of 2023. Mike mentioned ALT 1638951, which was issued October 24, 2024, that would be the permit that would be a issue, but it's passed the 45-day appeal period. So it's new. Having said that, that permit was applied for prior to the applicability and enactment date of Article 79, and it is common practice and has been for this board to enforce that deadline. And again, ISD has the authority now, because what Article 79 does as a change, is it makes affordable housing required, even when you don't need zoning, and it has to be reviewed and triggered by ISD. In this instance, it was, and that is not at all uncommon to other cases that I have had that applied prior to the enactment. So again, I appreciate the board's time. I regret that not just for this client, but for everyone that needs to rely on compliance and zoning to move forward. And this idea that for some reason, we have multiple permits issued for a project that allows the appellants to reach back through history. It simply doesn't. If you read Mr. Anderson's opinion, you can have multiple permits open. The permit that they're trying to reach back to, which they cannot, is open because the work is still being done, or we've had rough inspections, and when it's closed out, then you'll get your CEO. Again, nothing, there's nothing in the state building code or nothing in custom and practice that prevents us from happening. ISD did their job in accordance with enabling at, and based on real submissions, plans, and review, including from the fire department as Mr. Ross indicated. So I thank you for your time and look forward to many questions you might have. Thank you. I'm gonna ask Mr. Joseph, Commissioner Joseph, if you can weigh in, please. Yes, what after the Madam Chair, is Mark here, Mark Joseph from ISD here. I've been on day four, why sometimes now? So I reviewed the plans, I know the appellants, I know about the objection that the other side have, with respect to the packing garage, issued and reviewed by one of our most objective and probably very, very good, an exemplary here, Mr. Frank DeMiro. I went over the plans, it's a ratio of two for one, meaning that each unit has two pockets. So there is no issue of people blocking people he had side, he only worked on what was presented to him. That's the first thing that I've done, the first floor of the dwelling with the packing, there is accessibility there, and also there is also maneuverability inside, with respect to what happened on the street, and then he had no jurisdiction over the street. He was acting, he acted only based on what was, and thought of them, persona. So the space itself could sustain all these packing spaces and there is access drive to those packing spaces, there is maneuverability to those packing spaces, and then he applied the rights on it and approved those packing spaces. So that's what, with respect to accessibility and per for any kind of accessibility, it was not required because the number of units not 12 for existing buildings. So, and then you have two packing, go dwelling units, that makes it eight. So I don't see Madame Chair any problem with the applications with the permit being issued by ACER. So I stand behind what was issued by our planning seminar, which is a fairly one of our best, if it's not the best plan seminar we have on board here. Thank you. Questions from the board? Okay, I will give a brief, brief, a rebuttal from the applicant, the appellant. Thank you very much. 2390, it's, we say it's as clear as day. It's not confined to parking, to buildings, to brand new parking in older buildings. If it were, if it was, it would mean that anyone could build whatever parking garage they want without worrying about maneuverability. I think we just heard that the impacts on, on ScrooSport and surrounding streets were not considered in this review. And, you know, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's straightforward amount of interpretation of 2390 and we're very comfortable with our interpretation of that. And the only other point is the picture that was shown to you of a car park further away. There's all sorts of issues between the developer and people who live on the street. But the bottom line is our traffic engineer, Mr. Micho, did his analysis as if the cars were parked along the curb and not away from the curb. So the analysis that he did, which shows unmanageable traffic congestion, impairments of the fire lane, and interference with our clients' rights were based on parking next to the curb had nothing to do with parking further away from the curb. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have more than one minute. I'm Chair for me. Another minute. One minute. I just like to kind of bring this into the, to the practical. Just consider your own experiences, board members. You see projects all the time coming in front of the board. Think about tandem parking spaces in a two family, or three family in doorchester. Think about stacker parking spaces. Think about turntable parking spaces. When they aren't required pursuant to the zoning, they don't get cited. When they're not required, they don't get cited. And that's exactly the same thing here. If it's a pre-code building, if it was already in place and then what the changes you're making aren't adding units. Now, when you add a unit, yes, that's considered a new unit. And therefore, that must comply with all the aspects of Article 23. That's not what is in front of the board today. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? I just have one question to, to Mr. Joseph, in regards to the garage, typically when there's a project in front of zoning, we sometimes get recommendations from Boston Transportation Department. And so the question I have for you is in ISD, when you do give a permit for garages and things. You have your plan examiner, and do you also have for a consult with Boston Transportation Department that typically reviews access to garages, to that makes comments on parking and layout? I just wanted to know if that was true. Yeah, that's a good question. But usually, this issue came up with respect to other agencies when people have to go to the board or if he said NDOD, neighborhood design, overly district. This is not one of them. So the plan examiner based on the zoning, on the language of the zoning, not the spirit of it, the plan language of the zoning. So he chose the permit. There was no NDOD, no, nothing sent them to the board of appeals. So he did not have to consult with the other agencies, and other to issue the building permits. He had the authority to do that. Thank you. But it consulted with Boston Fire Department. So where does the Fire Department come in? The Fire Department can, when they apply for to change their frequency to eight units. That means they have to do some work with the fire protection of all the units, and also other, other garage itself for COVID, for safety coverage. That's where the Fire Department came in. I mean, this is a really good question, Jeanine, because obviously ISD has jurisdictions looking at the interior of the building, the building, and then when there's a request for variance, we look at the whole picture, and you know, you have these kind of different agencies providing oversight. And there's obviously a gap in terms of reviewing of the public way in this kind of process. So we can see why they're in front of us, both parties. But thank you so much, Mr. Joseph, for explaining that background. I'm sure. I don't have a lot of questions. I'm pretty, I pretty, I understand the conditions. Okay, you'll very well. Thank you. Thank you. If there's something about the gap, just real quickly, and I think a member of Better Boros, it's a good point. But it's not something that isn't part of settled custom and practice, right? I believe Mr. Mischu and his discussion mentioned something about Article 80. I don't know if that was an analogy. This is not an Article 80 project. Obviously, if it was, that would be, as you know, subject to that review. So all my client can do is follow the law and the settled practice over years, which it did, and what you've heard from Commissioner Joseph, as to how they reviewed this. This is a very limited circumstance. So, Attorney Murray said, oh, we could build these parking facilities anywhere. That's not correct. This is a three-code structure. And rather than looking at Article 23, you should look at Article 2, the definitions of accessory parking for an allowed resident. And that's really all this is limited to. And in that circumstance, to penalize our client for following the law and settle practice, there may be some gaps, but that's for policymakers to address, not necessarily planning examiners in the permitting authority. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chairman May, please just briefly respond to what Attorney Murray said. I will be very brief. I saw this. I am an attorney on behalf of the Leigh Hansen-The Warns, as well, alongside with my colleague, Mike Murray. In the last comment. Thank you very much. I appreciate it, Madam Chairman. So just the two responses to what Attorney Hamley just said. Number one, as we have noted, obviously, directly within the purview of the zoning board and ISV is zoning compliance. And as my brother, Mike Murray has pointed out, article 23-9 begins with the words all off-street parking facilities. It provides no exception. Our grandfather's status for pre-code buildings, not to mention a very important fact, is that in the over 100 year history of 4647 Beacon Street, which is the project, there has never been a garage. I can't remember if it was Attorney Hamley, or Ross, that mentioned that in the early 1900s, there was a horse and buggy carriage that that's not relevant. Thank you. But also just the one further point that has not been raised is that there is direct evidence that we have submitted, directly from ISD's internal system, that the Boston Fire Department never reviewed the garage permit set. And I think that's very relevant. And frankly, incredibly concerning, given that it's the addition of a 16-car garage, and that it directly goes on to and off of a well-established longstanding fire lane. I appreciate it. Thank you. Is everybody ready to make a motion? Is there a motion? There are members of the public here to speak, are they going to be given an opportunity? Not during an interpretation. I'm sorry. Is there a motion? I'll make... Sorry. Caroline, just to be clear, we are deciding on whether ISD... One of this is an as-of-right project or not correct? Is Caroline here? Are whether ISD issues the permit or incorrectly or incorrectly? And ISD wouldn't take any consideration the new mobility department. Caroline's having a... Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes, sorry about that. Yes, so the motion be whether or not ISD was correct and issuing as a right permit or if ISD aired and issuing the permit. I'll make a motion that ISD was correct, finishing the permit. Is there a second? Yes. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Pinato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Have a nice day. Thank you, everyone. Have a good night. Good day. But with that, we will return to the hearing schedule for 11 a.m. We'll ask again if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this time frame. Hearing none, we'll go to the first case, which is case B.O.A. 180, 4155 with the address of 35 A.M.s worth street. If the applicant is and are there representatives, would they please explain the case to the board? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Don Wies with the law firm, a Dane Torpe at 175 Federal Street in downtown Boston. Here with me, this afternoon is Paul Celu, who co-owns the property with his wife. If we could keep the presentation, maybe the second image, while I speak, I will introduce the background of the case and then I'll turn the presentation over to the property owner to tell you more specifically about what he plans to do here. There are a few notable things about the 35 A.M.s worth proposal. This is a proposed change of use in a two-family district from an existing two-family to a three-family. This is very close to fitting within the accessory dwelling unit program. There is some minor technicalities to complicate that a little bit, and because of the zoning process, the zoning various processes is available, that was a more straightforward way to pursue this project. As we walk you through, you will see that the changes to the property are very minor. The significant factors here are this isn't oversized law. It's a 6,000-foot lot and 5,000-foot district. As you'll see when you look at the photographs, the third floor, which is proposed to be converted to a new separate dwelling unit, is the original finished space within the historic building. About 100 years ago when this building was built, rather than that third level being and attic with subfloor and bare rafters, as is the case in many of these other houses, this was a space with plastered walls, beautifully finished historic further floors. It was always part of the living space of this building. That reason there was actually no addition to FAR. The citation from ISD includes a violation for adding to the building height and to the FAR. Those are mistaken, but it can take a while to chase corrections through that process. It is the case that we needed a few other variances, and so we have, as a precaution, applied for those variances as well, but in fact building height is not changing the FAR, it's not changing with this proposal. The real key issues are the addition of another unit. We're not adding a parking space. With that, over the two parking spaces on the lot. And the real physical change in the building is a small dormer has been added on the side of the building to improve the head height, as one comes up the existing internal stair. And that dormer because this is a historic house and a historic neighborhood is actually located 25 or so feet up in the air, but within the existing zoning setback. So it creates a zoning setback issue. Although the lot is oversized, the math does not quite work out to add a dwelling unit in terms of lottery, pre-dwelling unit, etc. But these are minor and largely technical violations. With that, let me turn the presentation over to the prop. You know Paul Sello who will show you specifically what he is proposing. Great. Thanks, Don. Can you guys hear me, okay? Yes, sir. If you just want to, I know Don did a good job sort of summarizing everything we want to do, but if you just want to briefly go up to slide two, I'll just say a three, no more in three, four minute overview, and we can get right into questions if that's all right. So if you just go up to slide two, that would be great. Awesome. Okay. Cool. It's nice to meet everyone. My wife, Lohlingana and I here were the homeowners of 35 Ainsworth Street in Rosendale. We just welcomed our baby boy, Sam, in October. We really love the neighborhood. Just a little context on the house. We purchased the home about three years ago in early 2023. As Don mentioned, the home has three floors and a prior owners used to use the home for the house. We purchased the home about three years ago in early 2023. As Don mentioned, the home has three floors and a prior owners used all three of them. When we purchased it, the house was definitely in rough shape. Structurally it was fine, but had like knob and tube electricity, cast iron plumbing, it needed a ton of work. So we decided to renovate just the first and second floor only with the first floor being a two bed, one and a half, the second floor being a three bed two bath in my wife and I. And our son, Sam, we live on the second floor. The home has two Austrian parking spaces as we showed in the previous slide and it is fully electrified. You can go to slide three. That would be great. On the next slide. Great, cool. So here's the car, save it for third floor. As Don mentioned, it's pretty close to being finished. It was used by the prior owners. And right now it's just going completely unutilized. We're storing a couple things up there, but you know, we would really just love to transform it into a small but you know, comfortable home for someone. It will have a well-sized deck. It will have a bedroom, a bathroom, air conditioning. And we just think it could be a charming apartment, frankly, for someone that wants to live in the neighborhood. Next slide, as Don mentioned on slide four, the only small change we need to make to the outside is the is the dormer. I know he went over that. And then next slide, slide five. Here are the photos of the outside of the house on slide five. If you don't mind, go into the next one there. And as you're bringing that up, so just two things to call out. As Don mentioned, we have two Austrian parking spaces, one used by my wife and I. We have one car and then our tenant downstairs has the other one. And we have already built the the egress going up on the back side. You could see there in the picture in the top right, the staircases go all the way down. And then if you want to go to the seventh slide there, we can skip over slide six. Just one thing on parking. And then Don advised me to argue with my neighbors about parking. But I did just want to share a couple of key points to show that in additional car in the street shouldn't cause a major inconvenience. This slide here, number one, we can walk to a computer rail station, bus stop, a park, a coffee shop, grocery store, all within walking distance. And then on the next slide, slide eight, with the reason it's no storm, it's sort of giving us an opportunity if you go to slide eight there to see if there's any like unused spots in the street. And you know, leading up to the storm we had yesterday, there were two unshuffled spots that have been unshuffled since the first storm, which was on January 25th. So again, my lawyer told me not to argue with my neighbors about parking, but I just wanted to share these two points that it's very walkable. There's unshuffled spots. And I do believe that one additional car from a future resident on a third floor should not be a major inconvenience to the neighborhood. So with that, I just respectfully ask you guys for approval and happy to answer any questions in here, public comment. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembury, I'm the Rosalindale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant asked me to complete the community process, which consisted of an above-us meeting facilitated on January 21st and were attended by a boaters. A boaters stands as were divided equally with half and support and half opposed. The opposed did not fill the change to a three-family, felt the change was out of character for the neighborhood and did not want to see the two from the residential area become a three-family area, which would increase the parking issues as well as the water or mouth concerns. The board is felt they did not experience any parking issues and felt the change to increased occupancy was a great use of the third floor in a great place for a renter. Director Wood has stated they have never had a parking issue in state of the proponent brought the plans to them 11 months ago and see no upcoming issues specifically with parking. Next, the proposal was presented to Long Area Neighborhood Association, Long Area Neighborhood Association, who voted non-opposition to the proposal. To date our office has received one letter of opposition and a nine signature letter of opposition maintained in the aforementioned opposed name. As well as a four letter, the four letters of support sent to the board for review again maintained in the supportive theme. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of Neighborhood Services, who likes to refer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Next, we have Tom Johnson. Good morning, Madam Chairperson, members of the board. My name is Tom Johnston. I'm a city of Boston resident. I live at 50. That's 5-0, Ainsworth Street. I'm a nut butter to this project. I live here with my family. We have two young adults who are aspiring Boston, either condo or homeowners. My spouse Christine, who is retired Boston School Psychologist, my 95-year-old mother-in-law, Joan Kavanaugh, a widow of a Boston police officer, and a lifelong Boston resident. All five of us at 50 Ainsworth Street, our lifelong residents, and registered voters, and we fully endorse this proposal. We believe that the project does align with the spirit of the city right now in Mayor Mayor Root's housing expansion. We believe reasonable accommodation should be made to create more housing in Rosendale. Thank you very much for allowing us to get our support on record. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have a Mike McCarthy. I get out. Get out during everyone's Mike McCarthy. I live next door to Paul. I'm at 31 Ainsworth Street. My wife, Katherine and I have lived here for about one year and not from Boston. From Brooklyn and Leetam, lived here my whole life. We love this neighborhood. I'm looking out my window right now and I see what Paul had already deleted. He took the words out of my mouth. A bunch of empty parking spots covered in snow right now. He's got a pretty sizable drive-by. I don't think there's any issue. I agree that with the spirit of adding housing in the city, it meets the needs of everyone equitably. I fully endorse Paul's projects. Thanks. Thank you. Can you give me the matured? I know they should not comment. Would that be a motion? I'll make a motion on approval. Is there a second? Then I get it. Mr. Stembridge. Hello. Hello. Mr. Blanc. Yes. This is an additional testimony. I tried to unmute. I thought it was unmuted. Can you hear me? Wearing the middle of voting? Hey, Zeus, did you see this? Yes. Comment. This person? This is 7070. It's so much of a stool in New Jersey or so, but I don't know what happened. Okay. Well, in the spirit of hearing you out, we'll pause our vote, which we don't normally do. So please be brief. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Board Members of the Board and Neighbors. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. My name is Susan Yeager and I'm a long-term resident for over 30 years. I'm an equal butter and I'm in strong opposition to the requested variance of 35 Ainsworth. This proposal is not just about one property, it's about the long-term stability, safety, and character of our neighborhood. Ainsworth Street has historically and is currently made up of single-family-to-family homes. Families move here because it's a quiet, stable residential street and converting this property into a three-family rental fundamentally changes that character by increasing the density of the turnover and the transient occupancy, making it less attractive to families and long-term residents. Importantly, the zoning, I'm sorry, our street parking is very congested. Residents on our street are already forced to park far from their homes. It's especially dangerous for elderly and disabled neighbors, particularly in winter conditions where the snow and the wind is both of our also big issues and getting stuck. Importantly, the zoning commission has already addressed housing density through the recently zoning of the Robin Dill Square corridor. That square-to-street submission was designed to concentrate multi-family development near the transit in different areas while preserving the surrounding residential sites, like ours, granting the experience directly contradicts that planning intent. Thank you. The most importantly, the applicant has not demonstrated the legitimate hardship which is required under Article 7. At the butters needing no unique hardship was identified. A variance should not be granted for financial gain. Thank you, ma'am. This variant would also be a wrap-up. Thank you. Okay, so someone made a motion. Now let's start over. Can someone make a motion? I'll make a motion of approval. Is there a second? I'll do it. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Bethe-Barrazo. Yes. Ms. Pannato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next, we have case B-O-A 1782400 with the address of 20 cotton street. Sorry, Madam Chair. I need to accuse. Okay, so we are now a six-member board. It's the applicants and what they're representing but present with the clean explanation board. I'm Lita Maxwell and this is my partner, Jafer, where the owners of 20 cotton street. And we are seeking to do about a 350 square foot edition off the back of our house, which goes outside of our normal build zone. We have five kids in our blended family. I'm looking at them. It's a snowden. And we just need a little more space and we would like to do the addition off the room for us so that as we age we can stay in the home. So it's a pretty small project and we've received no opposition from neighbors, just strong support from the people right around us. Happy to answer more questions, but better to be brief, I think. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberer. I'm the Ross and Dale Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of the Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consists of a Buddhist meeting facilitated on October 15th. Very well received by the neighborhood with the Buddhist voices support for the proposal. Next, the proposal was presented to Longfellow Area and neighborhood association, and with no opposition completed the community process. To date, our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office and neighborhood surfaces would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Okay. Would that man have motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of approval. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Betapurazo. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you so much. Next, we have case BOA 161-4957. What the address of 378-380 sets of street? If the applicant and or their representative of the program will therefore be assigned the case. Mrs. St. Wood from 378-370. Yeah, we come back to that manager. It's bound about right. Thank you. Would that move onto case BOA 179-8286? With the address of 659-888. The applicant and the representative of the president will take points from explaining the case to the board. 659-888. No, I don't see. And we'll return to that one also. Next, we have case BOA 1427-993. What the address of 9 basche elder street? If the applicant and or their representative of the president will be placed in the case. This is Dr. Morris. I'm present. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay, so basically I bought 9 basche elder street number two in 2023. The previous owner had bought the building and was flipping it. And he had applied for a curb cut. And he had made the driveway. And when it was listed as having parking. And he said that he would have the parking approved by the time that the closing occurred. But that didn't happen. The curb cut wasn't completed. So you have a situation in which there's a fully built driveway that can't be used because of the lack of the curb cut. Which results in tenants parking on the street. So if the ZBA granted the curb cut approval, there wouldn't be any increased parking on the street by doing that. And the plans are in front of you and you can see where the proposed curb cut is. I have a question from the board. Is there parking on that street where the curb cut would occur? Cars are allowed to park there currently on the street? Yes, I mean because there's no curb cut then yes cars are legally allowed to park there. And it's the curb. But what I'm saying is like my tenants when they park in the driveway, there was $150 citation. So they don't park in the driveway at all. They park on the street. Just to be clear, you're saying a driveway already exists. And to park on the driveway right now you have to drive over the curb. Thank you. So it's not really a driveway? Well, I mean you can easily go over and park on the driveway. But yes, it's not a driveway until you have the curb cut. Because especially after getting the $150 citation, nobody wants to park there. I don't want tenants parking there because I'm the one who has to pay that citation so I can know. And I'm also to understand that it's paved. Yes, paved. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? No, but I mean, are we going to hear from the city? I mean, typically we don't approve removing a space on the street for creation of tandem parking. Which is awesome. We have BPD's recommendation, but I'm happy to hear from Mr. Hampton directly if that's what you want. Mr. Hampton, are you available? I am. Thank you, Madam Chair. I remember some boy Jeff Hampton, City Boston Planning Department. Our issue with this isn't so much with the driveway and the curb cut. It's that there's no grass. Like just that, you know, cursory review of it. The entire property is paved over where it wasn't at some point in time. We don't know when this driveway went in, but when you look at, you know, just the cursory review from Google Earth, the entire site is paved. That's our opposition because it wasn't trained there. And now it's gone. There's no shade. There's no permeable pavers. Nothing. So that's where our denial comes from. Not so much from the driveway point of view, but because usable open space, which may have been a zoning issue as well when you look at, you know, how this is all laid out. So, um, I, the, the, there's any removal of trees and stuff was done before my purchase, you know, so there hasn't been any, any removal of trees since both of both of the units were purchased around the same time. I think the unit number one was in December of 2022. And my units purchase was in February of 2023. So, and then unit one has since been resold as somebody else. But, you know, the, it was a, as I told you, the previous owner had done a flip. And, you know, he was the one who had been responsible for, you know, removing any trees and stuff. That's not, that's not on the, on the, on the trustees of the new association. So, the plans that we're looking at, Madam Chair, from December of 2022. I know that's when good, that's, that's when the prior, I told you, when I bought the place to the owner had submitted plans for consideration. And there's no change in the plans because the exact work is still going to be the same. Do it the curb cut. You know, so, so I got the plans that were, you know, because, you know, what we're talking about is just the curb cut. I can show you the picture of the, of the, of the property as it is. I have the Zoom presentation that went to the community of butters meeting that shows the, the, the external view. Can I ask a question, Madam Chair? Of course, please. Would you be open to, um, removing a lot of the impermeable surface that you have now in regards to all the pavement. Well, I think you should take a look at the photo. Let me bring up my, is it possible for me to share the screen? You're, you're not able to share screen. I think, I think what it was better was going with, with this is to remedy the, all the pavement, the paved surface. All the asphalt surfaces that you have, you know, to, um, to apply a little bit more of permeable surface, um, a little bit more green, grass, rather, would you be open to that? Well, I mean, I, I, I think that because when I had sent, uh, Mr. Bremperry the, the Zoom presentation, I think you should take a look at what the actual current date is because I'm not even sure, you know, if the, if BPD is a, we're relying on Google Street View, which he says shows a tree that's not there anymore than it shows it. That's done an up-to-date reflection. And so I would say maybe look at, you know, the slide and the presentation that shows what the current state of the property is, or you could go to, um, like Reds in the real estate site, and, and, and see what the exterior is. And then we can talk about, or what is it that really can be done? Because the only, the only, um, um, um, usable grass portion would be in front of the building, not the paved driveway on the side of the building, but, but in front of the building. And I think what happened, the, the changes that were done there is that when the owner of Unic Want, um, the other trustee of the association when she was, and her husband were living there, they, they wanted minimal upkeep and they put gravel on that. So, you know, if, if, if what BPD wants is removal of the gravel and, and, and have grass there, that's, that, that would be fine. But I don't know what you're talking about with the terms of, um, the paved driveway portion. I'm not sure how you could make that semi-permeable. I mean, it's, it's concrete, you know. Well, it's asphalt, right? It's not concrete. It's, it's asphalt. It's crushed down on asphalt. No, okay. I, I don't, I don't want to. I, okay, okay. I think, I think, thank you. Thank you. Can I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the dojo staff community to engage and stress less for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process, which consisted of an abuters meeting facilitated on January 14th. With no one as present, the proposal moved forward with no further community process required. To date, our office has not received any further community feedback at this time. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office and their participants would like to defer to the Board for their judgment. Thank you. Madam Chair, there are additional comments. Okay. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to make a, a motion to, to approve with a proviso that the project adds a little bit of more landscaping and considers changing the impermeable surface to a more permeable surface. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Bembery. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Bembery. Madam Chair, just to jump ahead and let folks know all the hearings for 11.30 AM went to fur. So we'll go back to the two hearings for 11 AM. First being case BOA, 111, 4957 with the address of 378 to 380 center street and see if the applicant enter the representative for this case is available. No. I see, I see the person is here. Norberto, Norbert Salguero. Norbert Salguero. If you can email yourself, please, this is your case. Yes, my name is Norber. Last name is Salguero. In the honor of the Attacco Court, located at 378, the center street, your microprain. And you're simply looking to remove a provisor, correct? No, no other changes. Just remove the provided. They'll be alive. Okay. Any questions from the board? Let's take public testimony. Madam Chair and members of the Board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bembery. I'm the Jamaica Plain Community Engaging Specialist for the Office of Navy Boyd Services. The applicant has been approved and moved forward in the process. Our office believes the proposal being simple and straightforward do not require a full community process and will not raise any concerns. To date, our office has received one letter expressed in approval from Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council. Thank you for your time and the members of the office of the neighborhood services elected to the board for the judgment. Thank you. Uh, my chair, there are no additional comments. Okay, will that may have motion? Motion to help the way. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Miss Betabraza. Yes. Miss Panato. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. And finally, we will ask again about case B.O.A. 1-7-9-8286 with the address of 659 Hyde Park Avenue. Let's see if there is anyone present to represent the case. I don't think there is anyone from... He's on the phone. He's on the phone? Yeah. Is it? That was listed as iPhone? Did you know he's the number? 90... He's no number. His name is up there. Fernandez iPhone. In the attendee session, you just have to press star six to unmute himself. Ivan Morocho Fernandez. Yes, that's the stupidest case. I'll give you the address to mute yourself. Ivan Morocho Fernandez. Yes. Hi. Who can you hear? Okay. I grabbed a name. My name is Ivan Morocho Fernandez. Fernandez. Can you let us know what you're requesting today? About... Trying to legalize back of rash at 659 Hyde Park. Okay. I'm representing Rafael Ponce, the owner. So this is an existing... existing rash. What's going to be by legalizing the rash? Mr. Ivan, do you need me to see... What's going on? Do you need me to explain what you're looking for? Do you need me to ask if you're already in the garage? Do you exist? No, it's not existing. No, it's not. It doesn't exist. Currently? I'm pretty. Okay, so they're working to build a garage? So we're building it. Yes. I'm the one who's already in the garage. I'm trying to legalize it. No, so there's a problem. Yes, there's a garage there and he's trying to legalize. So... Okay, so it's not looking to do anything different. It's already there. No, it's the cell. He's trying to remedy your correct violation. Any other questions from the board? Let's take public testimony. Can we look through it because we haven't seen it? Okay, yeah. Can we just look through the pages? Yeah, thank you. Always. And the ambassador just... Just look through the page, yeah. Perfect. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you. That's good. Okay, any other questions from the board? So the garage is just, it needs repairs. No, it's already built. He's trying to put it on a record. I think they built it without... Authorization, correct. Without the first ask questions later. So the foundation is on a question, basically. I thought I heard that. Come on. Okay. May I have public testimony? Madam Chair and members of the board for the record, my name is Jeremy Bemberi. I'm the Rossant, the committee engaged in specialists for the Office of the Liquid Services. The applicant completed the committee process, which consists of on a boarders meeting, facilitated on December 15th, with no aboveers present, and completing the committee process. To date, our office has not received any further committee feedback. Thank you for your time, and may I ask off a certain name. But services would like to defer to the board for their judgment. Madam Chair, there are no additional comments. Madam Chair, can I ask a question to the applicant? Was he not aware that he needed to submit for permitting for his garage? I want to be able to, for the record, so people know that just appearing in front of the zoning board doesn't necessarily mean an easy pass, but we want to understand how we can improve communications to homeowners to know that there is a process anytime you build something. So if someone, I'll leave it to his suit. You know, I can communicate with the applicant, but I think it's best if we have a translator for everyone. True. Okay. So, Mr. Ivan, is it true that you need to be able to do that? Yes, yes. Sorry, Hansi, can you do it? Yes, so just basically to ask, like what did he not understand the process that before you built something? You have to be, you know, you have to ask for permission. Like how can we enhance better communications to homeowners that's across, you know, of this process? So, what did you do? What did you do? What did you do? What did you do? I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. All right. So, it looks like the previous owner, he had one permit, right? But they didn't know that he was not the full permit that they needed for this. Yeah, they probably applied for a short permit, not knowing that it also needed probably structural and its inauguration. Okay, thank you. You know, I think it's important, Madame Chair, for just the record, that coming in front of it doesn't immediately provide a permission to do something to correct the owner of a violation. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yes, quickly. I'm just unsure that the hearings are welcome again to everyone. Jesus, could you please ask the applicant if he had a state interpretation or if anyone from I have the offer to the interpretation for this hearing? Mr. You have a interpretation request. You know that there is this service and that it could be asked or never, never to be found. No, never, never. I'm trying to do the best way possible. But I see that now you have an interpretation. That helps me a lot better in making the most short process of the process. Yes, thank you. That's it. All right. Do you want to clarify from the rest of us? I think I understood. Oh, yeah. Oh, sorry. I'd like to make sure he was in a way that the service is available and I see so here in the request previously this interpretation. But actually this is something of the things that I can support the community as well. If you meet I'm happy to follow. Thank you. Okay. With that may I have a motion? And I'm sure I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. May I have a second? Okay. Okay. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Turner. Yes. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Mr. Barraza. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair looks yes. The motion carries. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Okay. Thank you to everyone. I think that's a wrap. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.