 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you and administrative deferral until a larger board is seated. In addition, I believe one of our members of Ms. Dong has to leave sometime afternoon, so we will have to adjourn at that time at whatever point we are in the agenda because we will no longer have a board. Having said all of that, I'd like to take a roll call of the tennis of the board members. Unfortunately. I'm Hannah, Mr. Chape. Ms. Dong. Present. Ms. Maraza. Present. Ms. Low. Ms. Hi there. Okay, so we have our quorum of five, Mr. Hampton from the BKDA. Are you there? Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. All right, now Mr. Fortune will begin with a call of the list. Thank you, Mr. Chape, and thank you for the kind words. Thank you for what you've done to the city of Boston as well. I'm sitting on the board. Thank you. First, all our business, the approval of the hearing minutes of November for us in 2022 need emotion. Don't move. Third second. Second, secondary. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Dong. Yes. Ms. Maraza. Yes. Ms. Low. Yes. And I am in favor of the motion passes. All the first case of building code calling VLA 1.0. 792.2.150 West Newton Street. This is a constructive new roof deck. Building code of the violations 9th edition 780. CMR 1011. Stairways 1011.12.2. Roof access. Where a stairway is provided to a roof. Access to that roof shall be provided to a penthouse compliance section 1510.2. Exception. In buildings without an occupied roof, access to that roof shall be permitted to be a roof hatch or trap door, not less than 16 square feet in any area, and having a minimum of the median of 2 feet. May I add your floor? I can please. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, John Moran, Alpine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130 Beach Road Orleans Mass. Mr. Chair, we seek a variance from the required headhouse access for means of egress to the proposed roof deck, which is otherwise conforming as designed as a matter of right to the building code. Submit that the hatch request is an acceptable compliance alternative to the headhouse. ISD has customarily approved access by a hatch below the fourth floor level. And thus has deemed it as an equivalent level of safety and has also deemed it to constitute not a distinct hazard. Based upon the determination that the hatch is an acceptable compliance alternative under section 3412, compliance alternatives of the state building code. We respectfully request that the board exercise its first and end grant a variance to permit the project access as designed. Okay. Mr. Moran, I'm sure you know that this board far prefers hatches to headhouses to return to access to roof deck. So is this a single family home? Yes, it is. Okay. So it'll be for use for the entire building. All right. How about the plans, Mr. Raza? Mr. Chair, the plans are adequate. How about can I have a motion to grant the relief request? Yes. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approved to approve the building code relief for the first hatch. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Dung. Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Good Lord. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. Mr. Chair, I would like to thank you for your service along with the secretary and wish you good luck and to Eric Romm, who's not present. Thank you for your service. Thank you. Thank you. I want to call the 930 here. Is there any deferrals of withdrawals? Did you heard the chair say we have a five member board? We need to have five to support. So if anybody wants to administer the deferral, we can. So it is either deferrals of withdrawals and give you the address first. If you let it deferral withdraw. 70 Wail and Street, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. For the record calling DOA 140592270 Wail and Street. Name and address for the record. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Attorney Maddacle with Dr. Diego and to Scana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking an administrative deferral this morning. Can I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. Second. Second. Distortion. Yes. Distong. Yes. Ms. Beraza. Yes. Ms. Logan. Yes. Name and favor. Motion is granted. You'll have a date of February 28th at 930. Thank you very much. 333 Chelsea Street. Thank you. Hold on a second. For the record calling DOA 140624033340. Name and address for the record. Lorraine Scatino from Merchitlin's office 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. Just requesting an administrative deferral on this matter. Motion to defer. Is there a second? Beraza second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Dung. Yes. Beraza. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. I too am a favorite. The request is granted. That also will be a date of February 28th at 930. Thank you. And thank you all again. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals in withdrawal? Let me give you the address first. Here. Ignite. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call the first case. Call number 1. Call number 2. Call the first case. Call number 1. Call number 2. Call number 617. Call number 1. Call number 3122. Call number 514123. Call number 5123. Call number 617327. I'm going to be in the room. Yeah. Hello. My name is Daniel Rafferty. I'm a resident of the 19th and street on the butter to 21. I want to take the testimony at this point. We're looking for the. Okay, Kim. I do see that. Toronto. I sent a request. I'm going to take the testimony. I'm going to take the testimony. Hi, Kim. Yes. Hi. Our architect was supposed to be here today. Is this the name of the architect? Is he on? Yeah, let me let me look it up. Steven. Steven what? Steven. I'm going to take the testimony. I'm going to take the testimony. I'm going to take the testimony. So I. We wouldn't want to go forward unless he was here. And I couldn't tell whether he was here or not. So we would like a deferral as well. Okay. Is he. Do you know? I don't think he's here. Mr. Chair. Okay. I'll give you a name update. Usually he's up there. So. Miss Low. You're muted. Oh, it's a warning. Yes. Sorry. I'm in favor of the motion for deferral request for deferral as being granted. February 28th at 930. Thank you. Following the next case, following the BLA 1-3-8-2057-37-R West Milton Street. This is a combination of fossils to create a new 13,800-squish 13,800-square-foot-lot. Directed to and have story edition on existing drawing. This will be above ground level garage and bridge over the driveway for a vehicle passage. Violation.69 section on the radio adjunct. Name an adjunct for the right place. Jose Santos. Name an address please. Role 7, Jose Santos. 27, West Milton Street, Boston. Okay. Can you tell us what you're proposing? If you scroll down. I mean, the first picture you can see the house and the old garage. My proposal is to rebuild this garage and have a bridge connecting the second floor of the garage with the house. The violation says about going too far back. Yes. That picture shows the existing house. The existing house has 10 feet from the easement access. My garage is going to go over only 5 feet more. My new garage is going to be still very far from the easement. Also, the easement ends in my lots. So basically, it's part of my lot and won't be used as an accessment easement. So, I am asking, is it allowed me to have the garage? How is this picture here? It's still before the house. And after that measure, I believe it is 10 feet. We still have 20 feet of easement access. And after that limit line in the back is only where houses know his dishes. So we have plenty of space. I am asking, is you guys approved 5 feet more of my new garage? Okay, so the proposed new garage will be connected to the house now? Yes. Okay, and can you scroll back up to that blockland left here? So the easement that you are talking about is that narrow vertical on the page that goes up to the garage, correct? Oh no, that's two easements. I have one easement that goes to the front lot and one easement let's say is in the talk of the draw. Oh, I see 24 access easement. Yes. That's talking about. Well, the easement is in my property and basically it ends in my property. Okay, so the new proposed structure will be 5 foot closer to that easement? That's what you're saying? Yes. Okay. I think we now understand. Do you have any other any drawings of the building itself in the plans or elevations? Yes, it's all out here. Everything that gave to me is to go down. That's the front elevation that the existing garage. Existing. Yeah. And if you go down. That's the new broad plane for the second salgarae and the bridge. And I think there's elevation here. Yes, that's the elevation. Okay. The house. Okay. All right. I think that's fairly clear. Miss Browser, how are the drawings? Is it true? The plans are adequate. I don't really have any questions. The modifications are minor. Okay. Any questions on the board? Anyone here to speak on this project? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman, the Mayor of the Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is referred to the judgment of the board. The background for making sure the community process are office held in the butters, meaning on February 27th. The applicant went on to attend the Rebuild Watch Neighborhood Association meeting in October, and received their support from the group. So far, the office has received no letters of opposition. We're unaware of any concerns. All right. That would refer to the board. Thank you. Anyone here? I have no right. This hand at the moment, Mr. Chikkin. Great. Sorry. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward an emotion of approval. Do Mr. Hampton, do you want to design your view? I would like some. Yes, please. Okay. With the design review. I'll give you the work. Second. I'll say it's not coming to my desk, Mr. Brown. All right. Mr. Fortune. Yes. There's Don. Yes. Mr. Braza. Yes. Mr. Loak. Yes. I too, I'm in favor. The motion passed. This gives us, Mr. Santos. Thank you very much, again, one. I have a question. Following the next two cases, calling the OA 1.40639519 Sanford Street. There's a companion case, the OA 1.4064020198 Sanford Street. The 19. This is two drawings of the same lot by a Lachit article 55, section 65-41 on pre-packing profession, article 65, section 42.13. Two more drawings of the same lot, article 65, section 9, Lachit profession, article 65, section 9, Lachit is an institution, article 65, section 9, Afflutia ratio is excessive, and article 65, section 9, the side is insufficient. This is for 19. A Sanford Building, new three family building of the same lot of 19 Sanford Street. The violation article 55, section 65-41 on pre-packing is insufficient, article 65, section 65-8, frequently detached dwelling into the article 65, section 32, this is in the end odd review area, article 65, section 42.13, two more drawings on the same lot, article 65, section 9, Lachit is insufficient, article 65, section 9, Lachit is insufficient, article 65, section 9, Afflutia ratio is excessive, article 65, section 9, the building has excessive, article 65, section 9, the building has excessive, the peak, article 65, section 9, Frank the I's insufficient, article 65, section 9, side guy's insufficient, and article 65, section 9, the ray guy is insufficient. The ambinad just to the record please. Good morning Mr. Chair and members of the work. My name is Caesar Gisoba, I'm here with the owner of the ray guy's. We are here sitting at the areas for the 19 Sanford Street to build the three family beside the existing work building which is 19. Before we begin Mr. Chair, thank you very much for your service and good future in your careers. And if anybody has any questions please let us ask a question or no more answer. Here is the example of the building that we planned to propose, that we propose for the 19 main of the 19 Sanford Street. When we ask here is the example. There's anybody having any questions? Can we look at the plot plan? Okay, yes. I'm sorry is something just okay. Yeah, we'll get it back. Okay. Right here. We have the building to the right. We have five feet from the property line and in the front we have seven feet and between the buildings. We have 19 11.9 feet and in the back we have, we have, we're actually that another million five six feet. Okay, so there's 11 foot nine between the two buildings. And what is that area? Is that going to be grass? What is it used for? There'll be a space to be grass or a basement between the two right people, the two space. Is there any off street parking? No, in that location we don't have off street parking but we can put parking right between the two buildings. Well, that's what I was asking. That's not what the plan show though. No, we didn't have, we didn't have off street parking but we see as a hotel that we can use from that for parking. All right. Can we scroll down and take a look at the floor plans? It appears to me Mr. De Silva that you got, you're really pretty much taking up almost all the room on these lots. Is that correct? Yes, but we still have some open space on the both sides. We have seven foot up front. I've heard from the on the left and then the back and side. We have green area, front side and that. And on the front and the distance from the sidewalk to the front of the house. Is that, is that modal? Is that similar to other houses in the area? How did you determine that? Yes, yes. It actually matches with the other property in the same life. Okay. All right. Can it keep scrolling down please? Oh. Okay. This is the first floor. We have even dining and a kitchen. We have three bedrooms and laundry and a bathroom. Are you have basement in these houses? Yes, that is a basement. It's foundation because there may be an old building there. So we take advantage of taking the old dirt up to the virgin soil. So then we might as well put a basement. Okay. But the basement is not occupied. It's just storage. Not at all. Not at all. All right. And here's the elevations. Okay. All right. You want the elevation. All the other floors are the same. This is the elevations to the right side. Okay. Okay. Okay. And the left side. Okay. How are the drawings for us? Mr. Jada drawings are adequate. I just would like for the applicant to confirm that your law is indeed 5153 feet. That is what the paper says. Yeah. The light was. What I'm searching. Okay. And your current. Three fat. Your current. Your current structure. Is it indeed a three family? Correct. Yes. Yes. Okay. So I just like the board to notice that currently there's a three family on the zoned. Where the zoning is one family. Six thousand square feet. You know, do you have a sense that the Mr. Raza what the. What the the various abutting houses are one to three family, you know. Um, looking. Looking at the Google map. Google Earth. They're single family. Uh, the structure that they currently have is probably the largest, which is a three family. But typically it seems like it's a one family. Um, and then diagonally there's kind of a larger, almost three story structure. But it's. And the only. The only issue that I'm seeing is. You're demolishing a two car garage. To put another house. And this board also tends to not have two separate structures on one law. And you're replacing open space for more density. Um, Mr. Hampton, what's the view of the BKDA in this project? Uh, thank you, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Jeff, and BPD. We recommended to know without prejudice. Uh, it is a one they already have a nonconforming structure on this lot. And this would be creating a new nonconforming structure in a one family district. Even the budding zoning district is only a two family, uh, which is, but for the majority of that neighborhood, it's a one family district. Uh, we think that the, uh, the African has adequate use of the property now as a nonconforming three. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Anyone here to give testimony on the project? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Eric Jensen, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. The applicant for nights in Sanford Street, uh, met Hannah butters meeting had two of butters meetings on September 26, 2022. And, uh, October 10, 2022. They met with the River Street Civic Association, which voted to oppose the project. Signing that Sanford Street is a highly dense and narrow two ways to treat with no other on street parking for the current homes that, uh, presently exist. Uh, they also spent the community as a history of several monthly car accidents in front of this particular address. Um, and this, that this project will also increase the neighborhood density and worse in the current traffic issue in this corner, presently that it, it personally has. Uh, the Greater Manor Paynebert Council also voted to oppose the project. They proposed that Mr. Helder utilize the ADU program, Mr. Helder did the client utilize that program in the DMZ. And, uh, the, um, overcriding at this project will cause the project was also met with overwhelming opposition by the community. Uh, we have received seven letters of opposition and zero letters of support for this project. So at this time, we are electing to the first of the judgment of the board on this matter. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Chia, Secretary, we only have one letter of the matter in association that said opposition. Okay. Any, any other testimony? I think the chairman is. The members of the board, Paul Solvenson, Council at last, Michael Plarrie, after, um, reviewing correspondence from the GMNC and the members of the association as well as the seven of butters and opposition council bill recognition. Do you have a raise candidate? Gary, can you say your name and all this for the market please? Yes, Gary, Tom Draftick 31, old, Morton Street. I'm a butter across the street. Uh, two family, um, most of the houses are single family in the neighborhood. Sanford is a very busy, uh, two way street, which is two narrow for cars to pass without pulling over. And this house is on a curb. We see this as a safety issue, uh, because also they are not providing any parking on the site. They're actually removing the parking that currently exists on the site. So the project would be, it would result in overcrowding in too much density on the, on a lot and be a safety problem relative to Sanford Street at Old Morton Street, which is a very dangerous intersection. So I'm speaking in opposition to the project. I submitted a letter on this particular application and the one following in opposition to. Thanks to consider it. Thank you. No additional minutes. Okay. Can I have a motion please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put for a motion of denial. An eye straight denial of an hour without prejudice. A straight denial based on what I heard in terms of the feedback, but I do like the suggestion of applying for the pilot ADU. I'll second that motion. Okay, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Who's going? Yes. Mr. Baraza. Yes. There's Logan. Yes. An eye to him in favor of the proposal in the night. Following an ex case calling the OA 1392764804808108108108107 Avenue. This erected three story building, prompting the 100 nav approximately 58,373 square feet of office laboratory research and development with approximately 4,746 feet of retail space. Parking will be included below grade violation.59 section 15 research laboratory. Additional. Name and address for the record. There's a raise and here. Right. Are you looking at Mr. Chase? I said more questions on you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Chair and Board members for the record. I'm McDonald from another reclinited fish with offices of 155 C port Boulevard in Boston. I hear today representing 804 Huntington Avenue LLC, the owner and developer of this property. If you go to the next slide, this property is on a through lot was front and jump hunting to the trolley streets as well as frontage in the back on the hillside street. Currently contains a one and a half story bacon commercial building and state of history pair as well as an approximately 84 space surface parking lot in the residential portion of the. If you go to the next slide, you can see that the front half of the property along Huntington and frowly street is within the neighborhood shopping district. The rear half is within the 3 F 2000 sub district. If you go to the next slide, you can see an overview of the project. The applicant did go through the arc lady process and received approval from the BPDDA on August 11th for a two building development. It's approximately 63,000 square foot building in the neighborhood shopping district for office lab and R&D with a home ownership 23 unit building in the back within the residential district. This project has been designed to dimensionally comply with all requirements of the Boston zoning code. We are here today seeking a conditional use permit for a research laboratory use within the commercial building that fronts on Huntington Avenue. This would be a use that would occur on the second and third stories of the building as well as an entrance lobby from Huntington Avenue. This building also would potentially include office and ground floor, retail, both of which are allowed uses in this district. We would note that during the arc lady process and in discussions with the neighborhood, we did commit to the lab and R&D use being in a bioseculeble one or bioseculeble two. We did go through extensive meetings with neighborhood groups and abouters throughout the process even before my client acquired the property, including with the Mission Hill neighborhood housing services, which owns the Frawley apartments that are directly about this project. You can see on the screen here as well as the Roxbury tenants of Harvard, which have the development across Huntington Avenue. You should have a letter of support in your files from the Mission Hill neighborhood housing services and support of our request for this conditional use permit. There are additional floor plans and renderings in this slide deck. If you'd like to see them, the rendering since the last two slides in the slide deck. This is just a site plan, sort of showing the overview from aerials. The next couple slides are all floor plans, but if you want to scroll to slides 12 and 13, you can see some renderings of what this would look like from this is from Huntington Avenue looking directly at the building with the lobby access to the upper level research lab on the right and retail. Commercial on the on the left of the ground level in the next slide shows the same sort of from the corner of Frawley and Huntington. You can see the Mission Hill neighborhood housing services, the brick building in the back. And you can see the mass eye and ear outpatient medical office facility off to the left of the screen. We're here if you have any questions. Thank you. So the reality, I mean, the ordinary kind of process we go through about looking at the floor plans and the elevations and the FAR and all that stuff is everything here is as a bright except for the conditional use of the lab space. Correct. That is correct, Chair. Okay. Will this be a university affiliated labs private labs? What will they be? I tenant has not yet been identified. So still going through the process. My clients on as well. So this is the spec lab building. Yes, the moment there's no tenant I don't like. Okay. All right. Well, given that that's really the only issue that we are confronted with. Mr. Rosalas, you have the plans are but in some ways it doesn't matter. I think the plans are adequate, but I do have a question regarding the residential building. It seems like we're looking at only the lab building. Where's the planning phase for the residential building? Where is that at? I believe that the plans are still ongoing for the residential building that is a dimensionally and used compliant building. So that does not need any further relief. But that process would be coming forward in the future. But do you have any. Do you have a sense in terms of whether it's being planned to go through development in five years or 15 years? Because it was mentioned in one of the support letters. Roger Trigger, both inch companies. Yes, our plan is to use that area as a construction staging area. Once the office resips in the doubt on lab building is complete, we will then proceed to construct the residential component of the project, which is roughly 23 units. Okay. Thank you. No further questions. Any questions in the board? Anyone here to testify on the project? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, my name is Maggie Van Square from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. At this time, our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. They went through a robust community process with the BPD and they worked with the community on this, which earned them the support of Mission Hill neighborhood housing services. At this time, our office is not aware of any concerns related to this conditionally is. Mr. Chair, we have one letter of Mission Hill Association support. Thank you. No additional waste hands. Okay. Can I have a motion then? Mr. Chair, I would like to also just compliment the development team for reaching out prior to the purchase of the building. It provided a good practice for development. I would like to put forward a motion of approval with two proviso. One is with BPD, design review, paying special attention to the penthouse and material on the fourth floor. It just felt very, very different than the first two stories. And then the second proviso is to ensure that it's limited to biosafety level one and two as a use. Okay. Good. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Dawn. Yes. Mr. Raza. Yes. Mr. Lowe. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. On your next case, calling BOA 140 7026, 326 K Street. This is to create two new domains. Located. There's more on the existing route for the main house, the violation of Article 68, Section 29, Roots of Routes of Restriction, name and address for the record. The applicant is on. Can you raise your hand please? It's part of Mike. Just since I request to unmute you and I'm making the panelists. Can you unmute yourself and say to me, and I just want to record please. I mean, I. Hello. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Michael. I'm 190. Well, it's a frequency massachusetts. Are you on the tell us what you're proposing? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. I am proposing to erect two dormers on the existing third floor of a residential single family on 326 K Street. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. I'm proposing to be on the same level as the one in the middle of the city. Do you have any elevations there that show us what the dormers are going to look like? I submitted all the plans online. I don't have them with you. That's existing. Correct. That's existing. Correct. You're going? I don't care. Who would two dormers on either side, matching some magical dormers. Mr. Raza, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to testify on the project? Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wave at the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS hosted anemotors meeting for 326 K-Stri and October 20, 2022. Very few people attended, but the two of others, one of which, who is the head of the gate of having neighborhood association, were their expressive work for the project. One of the better could not make the meeting and wrote to me with a question, and that the proponent answered promptly. The other was then also on support of the proposal. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Chair. Members of the board, Anna Calderon from Council President Flings Office. The councilor would like to go on recording support based on feedback from neighbors and the gate of having neighborhood association. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, members of the board, Paul Solvins, the councilor of live, Michael Flaredy, or the councilor stands towards our 60th and has been consistent. There are certain parties that you have met, and this may be one of them, as the proponent has worked very well for the project. I'd like to part of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? No, there's no way things. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PDA Design Review, paying special attention to the design of the dormer in windows to work within this context. Mr. Fortune? Yes. No. Yes. Mr. Raza? Yes. Good. I do, in favor of the motion passes. Calling the next case. Calling the AOA 139-5837-224-Wesnite Street. The signal buying lots, 226-Wesnite, lots 10 and 12, directing new. Full story, 6 unit multi-fueling dwelling with front decks and 5-pag garage. The existing dwelling at 226-Wesnite will be demolished under a separate permit. The violation is Article 68, Section 29. Maximum, maximum allowed height, and the lot has been exceeded. Article 68, Section 8, insufficient additional allowed area per unit. Article 68, Section 8, excessive FAR. Article 68, Section 8, insufficient open space per unit. Article 68, Section 8, insufficient front yard setback. Article 68, Section 8, insufficient gray yard setback. Article 68, Section 8, the maximum allowed height, sub-district has been exceeded. And Article 68, Section 33, insufficient fire. Anyone else for the record please? Morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, Attorney John Fulgenio, on behalf of the applicant, with me today is Eric Zacherson, who is the team architect. As Mr. Fulcim Redout, this is 224-226-Wesnite Street in South Boston. The zoning in this neighborhood is multi-family residential. This lot size is 3,500 square feet, and that is accomplished by combining 224-Wesnite, which is 1760 square feet with 226-Wesnite, which is 1740 square feet. The proposal has Mr. Purchan stated, it's a lazy existing three-family residents on 226-Wesnite, combined a lot with the existing baking lot on 224-Wesnite, and erected four-story six-unit multi-family dwelling with front decks and five-cog and rods. The proposed proposed building would be approximately 8,595 square feet, and the unit mix is, um, reflects that. The violations on this, we have, um, additional lot area, 1,000 square feet. We have 250 FARs, two, we're at 245, height 40, we're at 4510, open space 200, we're at 76. Front yard is five, we're at zero, but if you look at the tablets, it meets the bone, these houses on the street are all built to the lot lines. Side yard is three feet and three feet, in four feet on the left. We're yard is 20 feet, we are, this is a shallow lot rule, so it's 15 feet, we're at five feet, but again, that's consistent with the abutting properties. Parking requirements 1.5, and we're at 0.8. And the program is there'll be one two bed two baths, it'll be a 900 square foot, 88 unit is a there are three two bed two baths, those are 1100 square feet each, and two three bed two baths at 1500 square feet. The building program is on the ground level is a five-car park and garage, and then there's that two bed two bath 900 square foot 88 unit, and the third floor is one two bed two baths of 1100 square foot unit, and the entrance floor to two three bed two baths 1100 square foot unit, and the fourth floor is the master bedroom living space for the two three bed two baths 1100 square foot units. So, the community process received support of the civic association as well as the butters, and at this point we'll turn it over to the board with any questions you may have. Thank you. Okay, so what are the other uses of the buildings immediately about the, the bones building? That's a kind of a good question, it's kind of a mix. It's a three family district, you have singles, you have multi family residential, you have a 30 unit building across the street, so it's all residential, Mr. Chair. Okay, and the lots as you said, it's a 3500 square feet. That is a mile. All right, and what is the footprint of the building? You know, but the dimensions are how many square feet? Are the, are you mean the, the base of it? The whole building? I mean, I guess what I'm asking is how much of that lots that lot is used? It's, you look at it's 20, the head, I'm sorry, I'll keep it going. Mr. Chairman, the ground floor is about 2,750 square feet, including both the unit and the garage space. Okay, can one of you describe the parking that the garage entrance is on the left of the, as you face the building? Remind us how many spaces again? Five parking spaces inside. Okay, three full and two compact. All right, do we have any, can we show a plot plan showing the garage? I mean, floor plan. Yeah, it should be the opening up or left right there. Go back, go back please. Okay, we're going up left. All right, is there it? Yes, Mr. Fortune, as Mr. Domingo weighed in on maneuverability. I don't have anything from Mr. Domingo. I don't think he's on either. Okay, all right. Mr. Browser, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. I do have a question for the architect in regards to the base flood elevation. This is an of course the flood resilient or late district and there's some guidelines. What is your base flood elevation for this area and what is the lowest level elevation of your unit? I will have to, I'm not sure I'm off the top of my head. Yeah, it wasn't noted on the, on the section. Yeah, the base flood elevation is 18th. But off the top of my head, I can't remember where the, where this is relationship to that. I think it's been a long time since I've been here for five years. I kind of think you're not very close and we, without going into too much detail about route by route, what is the sort of, I'm not going to say the how to read. So this is the base flood committee. This is the representative's following sounds. I'm sorry, I was muted. I said Mr. President, the resident age, we had to get involved at the flood elevation. No, Matt, Iostate. We will continue our work with the BPD as well as ISD on the coastal flooding issues. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Mr. Domingo is now on. He has been. You know, ever stalking me of themselves? I think that's how the Domingo's back song. Mr. Chairman, members of the board of the Domingo BTVI Review, display and for parking and it complies. First of all, most of you are recommending that as the bus on your briefsign in the dark annual repairs. Mr. Zacherson, mute himself please. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, I'm sorry. Mr. Chair, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mrs. Are you muted? Well, everybody got used to. The circuit just came to town. I'm going to be. Thank you, Mr. Cross. All right. So the issue, I mean, the project may not have been cited for the flood zone issues, but it is clear it is in the flood zone. So the mine has to reflect the realities and the requirements involved. So we will need some. Mr. Hampton, what is your view? What's the BPD of you with this project? So our concerns on this project were not only the coastal flood resilience, but the lack of open space, three feet on one side or feet on the other. So we recommended denial without prejudice, but if it's something that could be reworked through a design, I don't know, this better barrage, if that's something that you feel could be done, it's just something where there's a real lack of open space in this project. And that's a big concern. Mr. Hampton, is the proponents suggestion that this is comparable to other projects in the area of being coastal hotlines? Is that... Is that anything more than that? That's what I see. Well, the other thing too is you're creating a new building, right? You're knocking down an existing building, combining clouds, putting up a new building. So it might be able to increase the open space if this is something that's brand new. But I would defer to this better barrage on a design issue. Mr. Barrage, what were you about to say? I was just going to say that the massing of the building seems like it works within the street. It's pretty close to the buildings, they're right next to each other. If I was to make a motion, I think I would cover some of the bases of our original concern. But I think it's okay within the density of the area. Okay. All right. Any questions on the board? Can we take testimony at this point? Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the Roar Anacal, and I'm from Council President of the Flint Office. The councilor would like to go on record and support based on a group community process and pay back from neighbors and the city's signed a group of associations. He respectfully requests for the VPA design review and that the proponent continues to work with the neighbors building the construction phase. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Secretary, we do have letters of the board. Okay. You can test the money here, but... Yeah, this is Noah Dwight, I'm a neighbor at 461 East Sixth Street in South Boston. I just wanted to speak in support of this project. I think it's a great pleasure. Thank you. Okay, Evan, okay. This is Evan Thompson from 180 West 9th Street. I'm in favor of this project, and I would like to want to record and support this project. Thank you. Okay. Oh, John Burns. Good. This is John Burns, owner of 222 West 9th Street, director of the butter, and I'm in support of the project. Thank you. Thank you. Pamela and Scott. It's a joy of course, I know you. Go ahead. Okay. Hi. Can you say a name in our district of the record, please? Okay. Open it up to Paula. Can you say a name in our district of the record, please? Once I'm muted. Hi. Hi. It was Paula Maher, a 53 East 3rd Street South Boston. I'm in support of this project. Thank you. And I have no additional way of saying this. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Paul Solven, City Council, out of the library, although it's a chance without 68 being consistent, they're as you've heard. There is a significant support of the gluteum of the bleders. This project may have merit, and therefore the council would add further to that. Thank you. Can I? Sorry, do you have another way to say a name? Pamela and Scott. I did. I'll meet you earlier. Can you hear us? I'm going to stay to meet them and add us to the work of things. What does it know? I guess some connectivity issues are low. No, okay. Never mind. Sorry. No additional reason. Mr. Chair, I didn't hear the Mayors office speak on this one. I didn't. I don't think we heard. No. I think I heard the new thing. Sorry about that. We had other ways on cover this proposal. You know, at this time we're going to defer to the judgment of the board. There were no concerns raised during the process. That was how it was. How it was. How it was. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, just so you know, they just sent in the chat that the contestants are in support. Okay. Thanks. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I would like to put forward a motion of approval with a proviso that the applicant complies with the course of flood resilient or late district guideline and do not have in their phone not to have dwelling units below the base flood elevation. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Baraza. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. And I too am in favor of motion passes. Thank you, everybody. Have a nice holiday. Thank you. So, Collier Nixke's Collier way 135401550D Street. This has had two roof decks and a head house for private use, the Violets of Article 18, Section 1, right now in the division. An Article 16, Section 1, the Bill and High is excessive in T. We have an answer directly. Here, exact for the project. Mr. Chairman, the owners would like to seek administrative deferral based on that five member. I'll make a motion to deferral. Oh, second. You're muted, Mark. Erlick. Uh, uh, uh, once again, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Don. Yes. Mr. Baraza. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. I too am in favor of the project as deferred. Thank you. You'll be deferred till February 28th till at 930. Okay. Following an X-K, Collier V.O.A. 1289900211, the Cloud Street. This is the confirmed market. There's a one family demo of existing building. Leave existing foundation intact. The additional floor floor with a hand house and access to roof deck. Violation. 54 section 18 room structure and building height restrictions. Article 32 section 4G caught up with ability. Article 54 section 10. The flow rate is excessive. An article 54 section 10. A really odd. It's insufficient. Name and answer. Full director, please. Parked out. Seven unity street members of the board. Thank you, Pete, for your time this morning. I'm the architect for 211 Indicator street. This project is for a single family home of the owners, Patty and John F. DeDoe and their four young children. Projects in the north end. Subject article 54, the zoning code. We have four violations that you see here. The G-Cyde issues have been addressed to the plan that are approved by Boston Water and sewer. Okay. Arm letter. Let me stop you right there. Let's deal with G-Cyde right off the bat. Mr. Seminelli, are you here? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. Christian Seminelli, Boston groundwater Trust. On behalf of myself and our trustees, I want to thank all of you for your years of service. This is a form of public service and serving on the board of no easy task. Special ease past three years during remote hearings. I want to state that the city has been very fortunate to have all of you. And I wish all of the best moving forward. And we have both of them. Thank you, Chris. Thank you. Okay. Can I have a motion? I mean, I'm a G-Cyde, please. Motion to approve. Second. All right. Mr. Fortune. Yes. The song. Yes. Rosa. Yes. The globe. Yes. I'd like to them in favor. All right. Let's move to the last. We do have a lot of the bus to Washington. Very good. Now to the applicant. Let's move to the project itself. Wonderful. Thank you, Christian. I'd go on to the next slide, if you will. And we'll focus on these remaining three items. This is a street view rendering of the project. We're looking to renovate this property and keeping with the neighborhood character. And those building height negotiates between the three story building and the five story building on either side. Next slide, please. This is the existing condition. We are not modifying the building footprint. But you can see to 11 endocards here highlighted in yellow. It is part of a group of three story buildings that are surrounded by taller five story buildings. Our project, the two 11 endocards will reuse the existing foundation and building footprint, but rebuild the structure and add another level as well as a roof deck. I decked the rear yard and a staircase penthouse. Next slide. And again, going forward, we'll talk about the height first. That's our go 54 section 18. Next slide. You can see the existing condition on the left and the new condition on the right. We are adding a fourth level. We are adding the head house and the deck. I want to speak just recently about the head house because I know that's not typically something approved by this board. There is ample precedent in the immediate vicinity for this, both to the right. The first one that I have come up to is under construction right now. I have photos to find my share. I had a head house expansion at 209 endocards. That's one story taller than ours. There is a two story head house. I have considered this request in light of that context. I have a report from the head house. This is the main one. The second issue is about the FAR main. You can see a breakdown here. It's the very small single family. We throw in it. We just barely are over the three point zero. Which is allowed by the FAR in the zoning. Most of that is consumed by a fair bit of it is consumed by things like the stairwell in this case, due to the small lot of sites. Next slide. The final violation for which we seek relief is about the insufficient rear yard. Again, like I said, we are not changing the footprint of the building. However, we are proposing a deck which extends the height of the kitchen off the back. You'll notice that the adjacent structure builds directly to the lot of lines with the one story in addition to their building. We will also build the lot line with the stack and there's been a request from the rear neighbors that we have a six-slip fence along that deck, which we are happy to comply with. But can I, before you hang on, before you leave that slide there? So this deck is going to be on top of that center block structure on the left? No, the center block structure is on the lot line of 209 and the Al. Okay, so that's standing in the top of the block. All right, so your building is just a brick that we're looking at. Our building is actually the one with the kind of off blue side in. And you can see the deck with the brick steps going up to it. We are talking about extending that deck to the lot line and putting a fence for privacy of the neighbors. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. I'll conclude here. We do have the full drawings in the back of this presentation, which I think we'll want to review just to make sure that they're adequate. I want to reiterate the neighborhood support for this design. I'm sure to do today. The support is not unanimous, but notably we do have the support of new rock. The advisory groups devoted on this project, new knit, which is the other community advisory group has also been kept abreast since we first reached out to request hearing with them February 2nd. And that's documented on emails, which Oh, and that is also a part of. Full disclosure, new net did at us on Friday evening to have a voting meeting with them. And after discussion with Oh and S, which all like this 11 hour request places an undue burden on the client. So after discussion, we decided to move forward with today's hearing. We welcome all conversations. It's just that. It places a significant financial burden on this residential client. So with that, I don't hear that any questions. Okay, is there a key? Can we scroll down through the drawings? I'd like to see a rear elevation. Yep, that's in the drawings. There's the rear. Okay, so that shows that that you're talking about. All right. All right. What is this? This is a very sizable head house. What is the size of the head house? If you go actually a little bit farther, I think you'll see the plans and I will clarify that. That you can see this in here. We see the head house. So if you zoom in, for example, on the top left. Make it clear that we're all talking about the same thing. So the stairwell continues off. This is a new co-confident stair. Replacing the earlier stair, which is not a key thing today. So we have enough access for a doorway to swing open there and then allow after that stairs. It is notably smaller than the adjacent structures head out of the franchise, which is currently construction right now. Okay, so it's really its use is nothing other than closing the staircase and an egress and access to the building. And it certainly just the family. Okay, and it's a spiral staircase going up. All right. Yep. As you are correct that this board has a long history of not wanting to see head houses on the top of buildings. How far is this set? But with the view donate, you have a view of whether it's visible from the street. Yeah, I'd like to go back to the rendering to talk about that specifically. That is a view basically taken from across the street. Actually a little bit farther. This kind of intersects. Yeah, I'm not going to sorry go back to that renderer. I'm going to go back to the view from across the street as you walk. Sorry, the rendering. The particular view. Yeah, we got it. All right, Mr. Rose, I have other drawings. Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. If you can just clarify that there's a sink at the penthouse. Is my reading that correctly? Yes, yes, it sure flies. There is a sink at the head house. Okay. Anything else besides the sink? I didn't pick that up. Yeah, you can go back to I think in a mini fridge in that circulation space. Oh, okay. So it's more than this. Okay. And then I do I do see in the Google Earth a substantial size penthouse, almost diagonal under construction. I'm just wondering if Jeff Hampton can speak on that. If that was approved by this board. Thank you, Ms. Barathe. Actually, I was looking up the decision on this. And these were coming from 2021. And I have no provisos on this approval for next story 209. There is no provisola said at all. So I don't know what the what else to say about that one. Okay, thank you. But no provisos meaning that it was approved as drawn approved as drawn. And even in the description of the decision letter has a head house. It's a little surprising. Yeah, it's pretty exactly because this board tends not to. I actually don't recall almost any. I mean, there have been when it's a elevator ahead house or when it's a large building. But I don't recall buildings of this size ever being approved without without a hatch instead of a house. I mean, my memory is perfect. I know that for sure. Yeah, this was this was actually signed September 7th, 2021. What's that long ago? Yeah, no, we don't we typically have not approved that. Even on multi-family buildings, assuming that the access is for the top unit only. If it's a case where it's access is for the entire building, then I think there've been cases where we've been okay with that house. Anyway, again, just in terms of precedent, but thank you for I don't have any further questions. I mean, could this conceivably be replied could this head house be replaced by a hatch? It's an issue of, you know, code compliance and safety. Technically, the building code really prefers a full head house. I know that. Don't you? You're preaching to the choir on that one. We grant building code relief on a regular basis. They do have four young children, you know, just recently for and so this seems like the right choice for a young family with active children. It's what I would want my own home considering the welfare of this children. Well, first of all, all of our decisions are tied to the property and not to the current ownership because the ownership may change. So that actually is not that helpful. I'm a little bit troubled by this. The neighboring one. I really honestly don't recall having ever been open to a grant. I'm just curious as to why what the conditions were that that that and I. And I. Rathas. Anyway, all right. Anyone. Is there anyone who wants to testify on this project? I yes. Morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I am Sierra D'Amico from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Two of them and the Cod Street did have a long community process. Whereas it started back in last December. The Lamar Commission meeting was held on December 8th. Applicant did reach out to New York and they see seeing new Nick and they did receive a letter of non opposition from New York. Although new Nick never cut connected with the applicant, they did reach out with some current concerns once they saw that they were on the agenda. Staying in that direct debater has had some concerns with the overflow onto their property and requested that I bought that to the boys at time. At this time, our office would like to defer to the boys. Thank you. Can you explain when you mean by overflow onto the property? Yeah, there was just some construction concerns they had. I'm not sure about the certain details, but they just expressed some major construction concerns that they had. Those are with respect, extraction, not the ultimate project. I think to the overall project, but that was expressed to the new Nick board. Thank you. Mr. Chair Secretary, we do have a lot of the latest office. Anybody else? Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Can you hand me a city council in large, Michael Flarrity? Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the board just want to go on record and support of the petitioner to great not then family that's committed to the community with four small children that are attending the Elliott School and committed, obviously, to the neighborhood to the city to make this for ever home. So I know they've worked hard with the neighbors. Initially, I believe the fire escapes to the about is ran through the children's bedrooms. I believe that issue has been addressed, but this is a great opportunity to have a family stay in the north end and stay in the city, which is contrary to what's been going on across the city. So I welcome any questions or comments, but I just want to go on record and support of the petition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You ladies and gentlemen, the board. You guys there. Are you raised here? Michael? You're on the side of the evil going to give testimony here? My name is Mike Nerry. I'm a director of two and nine handicraft street. By the way, two and I had our pre-existing head house. So the concern and that explains it. Thank you. So the concern that I have, I'm not opposing the project that I do have some concern about the way they're handling the overflow or the water from the roof. And that's going to affect my basement directly. They are in a flood zone and they have started construction in the basement without a permit. And I'm not sure what's going on in there. So and there hasn't been a full community process. They're bypassed. I mean, the problems process the lack they went through the landmark that I would just made a wear this morning. No notification was given to me or anybody else be the by email or by posting on the on the building. So I'm just asking that the board defers us until some some of the issues are addressed. There's a few issues that concern water and how they're handling the water and some of the construction. And the owner and have refused to me or address the issue again when not opposed to the project where opposed it. We're suggesting that the deferred until all the community process is going through and they address some of the issues. Thank you. Robert De La Visa. Are you looking at testimony here? Yes. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Thank you. I'm not going to call Mr. Ross Rosito. I'm going to a living in the country. I want to say I want to be on the project. My address is 24 fleet street and I don't have the boss then, but I also home. 210 and 212 in the bus street, which is directly across the street from this project. I believe that the renderings that I've seen and conversation that I've had with Mr. President Bill has assured me that this project conforms with the neighborhood look at the neighborhood unlike some other projects that have done by this one here. I like the look that I like the way it's done. And I believe that Mr. Rosito and his design team has followed all the rules of regulation. So I SD and also the sorting board. With that, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Um, S��면 eyelids. from the community that they had requested on a butter's meeting before going before the ZBA and for that reason the concert has no thanks at this moment. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is that it? Yep, no additional raise hands. Mr. Chair, it's Jeff Antenna Gettin. Just to confirm what an earlier number of the public had said about an existing head house at 209. I did both the plants and that is indeed true. It was already existing. Well, I mean, because there was really puzzling why we would have endorsed a new one. So that explains that situation. All right. I might, if I may pardon me, I just shared an image in the chat, which shows that expansion. I agree that there wasn't existing head house. It has been expanded more than 50% of its original size in the last several months. So it was that, which I was referring. I'll kind of make sure that on the screen or it's in the chat. Can't share it on the screen. So all right. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion at this point. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion. Given that there's some precedence in bringing in a g-sensee, I'm going to put a motion to approve with a proposal that the BPD does a design review on the size of the head house and to ensure that it fits within its context. How's second motion secretary? Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Don. Yes. Ms. Baraza. Yes. Ms. Logue. Yes. And I'm reluctant in my last meeting to approve that house, but I think Ms. Baraza's suggestion to the BPD is appropriate. So I will also vote in favor in the motion passes. Mr. Chair, would you like to extend 50 before I call the 1030? Would you like to do your comment? Yes. You guys have that number four. Okay. Mr. Fortune is about to call the 1030s for with the furls. We have a five member board which means that every single member has to vote in favor of a project for its pass or nearly a seven member so that any applicant is entitled based on the shortage of members to seek and administrative deferral and have it granted. And we will, and Mr. Fortune will now proceed with the request. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Is there anybody that has a 1030 hearing that wants to defer or withdraw their project? They give me the address first please. 280 Chelsea Street. Thank you. Will the Reckay calling the LA 132 or 1065 280 Chelsea Street? Name an address to the record please. Marien's Coutino from Richard Lins's office 245 Sumner Street in East Boston requesting an administrative deferral. Make a motion for the deferral. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Planeel. You need a second. Second. Okay. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Long. Yes. Raza. Yes. The Globe. Us. And I, two of them in favor of the project that's been deferred. You'll have a date of February 28 at 930. Thank you everyone. Happy holidays. You too. 128, 134 North Street. Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Council. Sorry. Sandy address again. Sorry. 128, dash 134 North Street. Okay. Well, in case BOA 1367237 to 128 134 North Street. Name an address. Other. Good morning. Once again, Mr. Chair, members of the board, attorney, Matt Eckle with Dr. Diego and Tuscato, the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are also seeking an administrative deferral this morning. Make a motion for the referral. Recession. Second. Distortion. Yes. The dawn. Yes. Raza. Yes. The Globe. Yes. And I too, in favor of the motion passes. We'll have a date of February 28 at 930. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 1030 hearings? Nine Sydney Street. Thank you. Well, the record calling BOA 1406159, 9 Sydney Street. Name an address. Well, the record. Attorney Ryan Spitz, Adam's and Marancy, business address of 168H Street, First floor, South Boston. First, I just wanted to say thank you to all of you for your years of service. And welcoming those of you that will be joining us entering into the new year. Wish you all the best of luck. We're here today to request an administrative deferral. I'm going to move to the parole. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. No. Yes. Raza. Yes. Globe. Yes. That's your favorite motion for passes. You'll also have a date of February 28 at 930. Great. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? 54-60 Roger Street. Well, the record calling BOA 138173354 to 60 Roger Street. Name an address. Well, the record. Good morning. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney for the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston, requesting an administrative deferral place. I'll make a move to the parole. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ron. Yes. Raza. Yes. It's low. Yes. Two in favor of the requested granted. Thank you. Thank you. And you'll also have a date of February 28 at 930. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals of the 1030 hearings? Hearing none. I'll go to the last case of 930 following BOA 13845394 Forest Street. This is a proposed 4,663 square for a three-story infinal addition at the Propechata School at the out of space. Violations Article 27G, he's bossed an iPod, Article 53, Section 56, boss fee parking and loading, Article 53, Section 9, the Board of Air Ayrations with excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the bill has excessive feet, Article 53, Section 9, the array, Addison, and the Supreme Court. Name and address, other active please. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. My name is Katie Ferrier and I'm speaking as part of the architectural team on behalf of Brook Charter School. I'd like to, excuse me, so as you can see here, this is the survey, which was submitted as part of the documentation. I can go through the items. Primarily, I should start with, the school would like to build an addition to existing courtyard in the back of the site, and to add a total of five classrooms and three offices. There's no change to the school charter, which is currently at approximately 550 students for grades K to 8. This project has triggered five conditions that we're seeking relief for. I'll start primarily in the back. Part one is the over-yard, so the existing historic building is approximately four and a half feet from the property line. The addition will be more than five feet, allowable for the over-yard is 30 feet. Building height, similarly, existing building is 41 feet tom, allowable for this zoning is turned five feet. The addition would be less than 41 feet, less than the current building. It's probably going to be a couple of feet shorter than that just because we don't need that height. Going up the list, the FIR. Currently, the building's FIR is 1.56. Allowable for this zoning is 0.8. With the addition, the proposed FIR will be 1.76. Off-Street parking and loading. Currently, there is no parking on-site. It is a corner lot. It's actually a couple of lots that was combined. So parking for the staff is a cluster street in the Silesian parking lot and some other local areas. So in 2014, the building, you can see the kind of the wing that's on the right that goes up to the north of the page. That was added on at that time. The school will plan for it and you see variants for actually several things we talked about, FIR and some setbacks in parking. So at that time, parking, they did receive parking relief as well as loading bay relief. As part of this project, zoning would require three additional parking spaces and one additional loading bay. We just had no space on the site to count for either one of those things. And then the last thing I'll ask, which is actually the first, is that we are part of the East Boston interim planning overlay district. And so the iPod triggers me for you. So I guess I'll add in the lot sizes of approximately 27,500 square feet when we are in a 2 family 2,000 square foot zoning sub-district. Those are the highlights of our issues and I'm happy to take questions. Additionally, I will add that work is available on the call. We have received and submitted as part of administrative 15 letters to support. So those have been forwarded to the staff from the last couple days. Okay, so most of the violations that you described are preexisting. Correct, yes. Okay, what are the new violations were triggered by this extent? Good point. Okay, so the rear set back, what do you have been a previously in existing condition? The building height also a previous condition. FAR previously parking. I believe actually all those, although I'm not positive if the iPod was in existence in 2014, so I'm not sure if that applied to the factor at that point. Okay, and what was the courtyard used for in the past? Right now it's paid over its asphalt. There is a little bit of space for some mechanical conductor units. There is currently a shed in that space that will be removed. It's a kind of a small space that points and things. Not used for like recess for the school for the kids to play. Oh good good question. So if you can go back to a safe plan, I can show you. So it's part of the project 2014. There was an addition. So yeah, actually any one of these is this is this is great. So the addition that goes kind of on the right of the page on the space that's empty next to it is a playground and turfed area that is fenced in and that's where recess and school activities happen. Okay, so that's unchanged. Correct. Okay, and you also said the this is not going to trigger a additional number of students. Correct. Yes, I should say that at the beginning of the end, there is no new students coming to the building. It has been designed as a K-8 school. It will continue to be a K-8 school. The charter has not increased the same number of students. All right, Ms. Bras, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are okay. They're not they're diagrammatic. So this is a question for the architect. Why aren't you not showing the elevations for the project? And I believe that on a third floor, it's showing like on the threshold that there's almost like a wall, but I'm assuming that you can pass through it and these are potential uses for classroom. I'm assuming. Yeah, so I guess I'll start at the beginning. So part one, the drawings that we submitted were over the summer. When I have right now are a DD level pricing package that I'm happy to forward to share separately. So we do have full architectural drawings with elevations and sections and more detail than certainly what you have in front of you. I guess the second question. Should I assume that the elevations are going to match already? What's existing? Oh, yes, I apologize. Now I understand what you're saying. Yes, so the addition would be it would be pretty good in kind of the you know, so much existing conditions of both the materials, you know, punch windows in kind with the previous renovation and what the building has currently. Okay, and I think this was the feedback from Jeff Hampton, the BPDA, the plans were not shown, did not show adequate information. Is that correct, Jeff? Yeah, this is the first that we've seen any plans to be honest. Okay, so this is more than what you already saw. Okay, so if we can go to just to the last elevation or last section. Okay, so what I'm seeing and what is white completely void, that's your addition. Correct. Okay, and and they're potentially just classrooms. So it's three floors. Two of the floors have two classrooms. One floor has a classroom or one side and three small offices. Okay, and you're not adding additional students. Correct. Okay, and we did receive a feedback from a resident that was concerned about buses blocking it, Ben and Tin Street. Can you let us know how the school has addressed some of those concerns? Yeah, it's good. I'll do it. We're having trouble understanding you. I'm sorry. Yeah, well, while we're waiting, Ms. Burrast, I mean, there's there's two things that we could do with this. We could either make a motion to defer until you have seen additional architectural drawings that that will provide some level of comfort. The other is if we are okay with a project as a whole, we could wait to sign off on it until you've seen those drawings. Correct. Correct. I think what I would do is I would just put a provider that BPD has a design review on next year. Okay. All right. Sorry. Is the applicant set up to testify? Oh, very ordinary. So go ahead. You can hear me, okay? Yeah, so this is my melody. Mark Loring, Chief Operating Officer for Brook Charter School. The bus issue is an existing conditions issue. It has nothing to do with the addition, given we're not increasing students or anything. However, it was an issue that was raised during our community engagement process, which we started back in March of this year. And so it's something we've worked. We don't control our buses. They are controlled by Boston Public Schools, Boston Public Schools, as buses. However, we worked with BPS and with the neighbors to move buses that were waiting, bus that were waiting to kind of pick up kids at our dismissal time. We're blocking traffic on Bennington. We've since addressed that. They're no longer doing that. So we believe we've addressed that issue as well as some other kind of traffic related issues that were raised by by neighbors again that are related to kind of existing conditions, but not directly connected to this addition product. Thank you. Okay, thanks. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to testify on the project? Yes, good morning, Mr. Chairman. I'm a member of the board. Natalia Benningt has with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Owen asked, posted in a butters meeting for this proposal on until we're 20 of them. Some of the butters have concerns regarding the density, lack of parking in the area during construction and more student enrollment. Other butters here, other butters were in support of the extension to allow the students to help with spanks, and the applicant met with the butters numerous times in the last year to this specific proposal. The applicant also presented the proposal in the Harbor Community Association in March, July, September, October, November and December. The group voted to oppose the proposal with 15 presidents opposing and 13 supporting. Those will post voice concerns regarding more student enrollment and a result of the addition of more space. They also mentioned traffic, dust from the construction and noise. Our office received 16 letters in support and one in opposition at this moment are office related to the bridge. Just to support. Thank you. Mr. Chair secretary, we do have those letters. May it's obviously welcome. Thank you. Anybody else? We raised hands here. I'm going to start with CJ. Can you say it? Your name and address for the record please? Are you looking to give testimony here? Okay. Now go over to minor. Go ahead, minor. Thank you. Mr. Chairman members of the board, minor, parents, represent in the car working, and women from the carpenters union. First of all, I want to thank all the outgoing members for a great years of service. For 15 years, I've been attended these meetings and you guys have done a wonderful job. I also want to congratulate those remaining members of you guys, educating, interventions, and I wish you the best. Mr. Chairman, the carpenters union, we love to go on record and support on behalf of our Boston residents. Thank you. Okay. Do I skip? Go ahead. Yes, I'd like to we'd like to go on record and support of this project. It does not provide any hardship to the neighborhood. I think that the addition is for the existing enrollment and special needs within the school itself. And I think it will be positive for the neighborhood. What is your address? Oh, it's 178 Wadtswood Street, East Boston. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. And then, Lee J. Livingston. Livingston, don't go ahead. Can you hear us? We can't hear you if you're talking. I need it. It's about okay. Sebastian. Good morning once again. My name is Sebastian Parra. It's also me. It's for Councillor Gabriella Coleta. The council understands that the communities divided in regards to this project. She also understands that more classroom space is for the betterment of the students. The council are fully expect that the promises they've made not to encourage the student population will be honored. And she hopes to see them in writing with copies into the board, want to her office and want to her review and never her association. Until she sees this in writing, she will not be taking a stance on this project. Thank you. Thanks. I have no other. No additional raise hands. C.J. for some reason we can't hear you. So I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have no additional raise. Is there a comment from Mr. Domingo? No. Madam, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Mr. Chairman and members of the board of the Mico BGD. Because of the concerns of the community, I think the project developer should comment to BGD for a construction management plan. So we can approve what the intentions are for our construction vehicles and parking for those who will be working on the project. This is a common practice. So I'd like to recommend that construction management plan be as a provider for this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can I have a motion please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval to proviso. Oneness to have BPD design review on next year and a second is to have a BPD construction management be submitted. Very good. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Yes. Raza. Yes. The flow. Yes. And I too have been favoring the motion passes. Mr. Fortune, before we start on 1030 hearing since we definitely will not finish the agenda today. You want to do the recommendations? You know what good minds take a light. True. No. Then true for years. All right. Let's pat each other on the back of that. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm going to call the subcommittee would met on December 8 at 5 pm at 10 10 Mass Ab last Thursday. calling case B-O-A-131062726 Sullivan Street was to replace an existing roof deck. New stair. It was approved. Case B-O-A-134-7692435 Bonka Hill Street was a proposal for a headhouse to change window as approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-1367350 78 Washington Street was the rebuild expanding existing garage was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A 138503101 to 109 state street was moved. Revisal the previous on it was approved with was provided. This is African only. Case B-O-A-134-7341 23 Chestnut Street was constructed. Don't want to rear the houses. Move. Case B-O-A-132-305587 Dorchester Avenue with denied with our brand to this. Case B-O-A-133055037 Jenkins Street was deferred to the subcommittee on 119 2023 for reattab re-advertisement. Case B-O-A-13904497 Zamora Court was to build an additional living space adding expanded upper unit. It was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-134-4-2-8265 Monk Hope Street was the extension of living space. It was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-138-3742-28 Taunton Avenue was extended the house in the bag and side was approved with BPDA. Case B-O-A-139-4-5-0-6-20 Hazelmey Road was to an addition to make for a new kitchen and sunroo was approved. Re-discussion case B-O-A-1265152 10 costume street will be heard today at 1130 who's deferred to the full board. That concludes the subcommittee report of the summer 8th 2022 in a motion. Can I have a motion please? Motion to concur with the recommendation of the subcommittee. Motion to approve. Zero second. Second. No second. The portion? Yes. The Don. Yes. Grazum. Yes. The Globe. Yes. And I too agree to concur with the recommendation of the subcommittee. Mr. Chair, I'm going to call the first case to 1030 calling B-O-A-139-0-5-0-5-25 Oriol Street. This is a residential tandem parking driveway, the approved curb cut. The Violation Medical 56 Section 8 front yard is insufficient and the Article 56 Section 8 side yard is insufficient. The name and address feel the record please. Is anybody on for 25 Oriol Street? I do have the name on the... Well, we can go back unless somebody is trying to get on it and get really in this code. We have 25 Oriol Street. 35 Oriol Street. Okay, let's keep going. Well, the next case. The following case, following B-O-A-140-629-33532-542-Reverstreet. This is an existing one-story commercial building. We want to go up three alterations, change of views, existing commercial retail, and we've converted into a cannabis retail facility. The Violation Medical 60 Section 16, the cannabis established, conditional use in a C.C. sub-discreted conditional. Name and address feel the record please. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and Chair members of the board. My name is Dring Bedbetter. This is Hadar 31st, Danish Street, Maddie Pan, and I'm here on behalf of Bill the Life Legacy LLC. Thank you very much. So tell us about this proposal. There we have a series of questions. We routinely ask about cannabis stores. The buffer zone, how far it is from neighboring one, how far it closes it into schools, what the hours of operation, our security, traffic management, et cetera, et cetera. So please just walk us through the proposal. Absolutely. I'll do a brief overview of operations and then open it up for questions. So Bill the Life Legacy will be doing business at the pot at 536 to 538 River Street in the Grand Maddie Pan, the district and the Maddie Pan's where commercial sub-district. The proposed hours of operation are Monday to Thursday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. We've partnered with the Tronics, the security company and leader in the cannabis industry, who have a total 24 cameras for the facility on the interior and eight total exterior motion detection cameras. First available from our private parking all the way to our front door. There'll be 24 a.m. to be recorded with an 90 day footage backup. We'll also have high impact windows and sensors. There are eight dedicated private parking spaces at one dedicated ADA accessible parking spot in the four 542 River Street parcel that's already designated for use as parking. In addition, there are 47 on street parking spaces available from 538 River Street. This subjection is very dusty populated. There's over 80 businesses within a quarter of a mile less, but there are no public or private schools within 500 feet or adult daycares. And we do not have any buffer zone conflicts with any previously approved other cannabis establishments that we have zero buffer zone conflicts. We received our approval from the Boston Cannabis Board on October 19th, and we're working on finally rising our host community agreement with the Boston Cannabis Board at the time with myself and my business partner. I'm Mr. Cornert, Equity Applicants at the City of the State. Any questions so far? So I'm sorry, you said it, but I didn't get you were going fast. I didn't write it down. How many off street parking and how much street parking? Fortes seven, so we'll have private parking eight parking spaces. And then we'll have- Will that be for employees? No, it will not be for employees. It'll be for our patrons. Very well. Where are employees for? There are three additional public parking lots within a quarter of a mile walking distance in Madapam Square. And we'll be providing blue bike membership as well as subsidize MBTA bus passes for our employees. And we're going to hopefully be hiring mostly from Madapam so everybody will be within walking distance. Okay, do these plans include a rendering of the experience so that you can see what the staff would look like? Yes, I submitted that later. We had some exchange in our architects, but we got our rendering last week and I emailed that bastard to the ZBA. I can share my screen if that's allowed or I can share my information. Unfortunately, the screen share has to be done at this end. So, okay, so sounds like we don't- Madam Ambassador, do we have that or do we not? I suspect we don't. It's just- How don't? Okay. All right, too bad. Okay, so and walk us through the internal flow as someone enters the main the main entrance. How are they greeted? Where are the displays? Where is the vault? etc. Absolutely. If you could scroll down to that second slide, you would walk in through the 538 rubber street entrance so we have an indoor queueing space that will be where your security check-in will happen. And after security check-in, you will enter into the floor space through the door furthest from the main entrance. And that's where you will have the floor retail area where we'll have some displays and five between five and seven point of sale stations. Once your purchase has been completed, you would walk back through the door into the indoor queueing space and exit back out of the 538 rubber street main entrance. Okay, but as I'm looking at the proposed plan, what's the door on the left floor? The door on the left of the plan that is an emergency exit access only and we will be receiving our deliveries through that door. Okay, so both access and egress will be primarily through the door on the right. Correct. Okay, and then you also anticipated my next question. Tell us about deliveries and how they're going to be handled. Hello. Yes, I switched over to a panelist. I think I'll be able to share my screen at this point. And deliveries that will be handled during our hours. We anticipate opening at 10 a.m. We'll planning on all our deliveries happen before 9 a.m. the store openings. That is where there's a minimal traffic and medical and square. I see other businesses have not really opened or ramped up. And we will have the delivery park in the parking lot and walk over to the second door, the 536 river street entrance. Okay, so the deliveries will be through that emergency, the the the insiders and emergency door. Then they go through the they will not be any deliveries while the places open. Correct. Okay, so they'll walk through and go to the vault. And where will the vehicle, the delivery vehicles be parked while the delivery is being done? During in our private parking lot at the 542 parcel. Okay. All right. Mr. Domingo, I think has his hand raised. I don't know if he can. Yeah, I can see that. Mr. Domingo, did you have any comment on the traffic? I asked Mr. Chairman members of the board about the Mico BTV. I have a maneuverability problem with the design that I just saw. Is there any way you can scroll to that parking design? One more page. Yeah, if you can make it larger, that would be great. Okay, that's good. Great. There's two spaces tuck in the corner. I'd like to see them removed. And one of the spaces as you enter to the right, I'd like to have that removed. And I'd like to have the loading, the loading zone may be striccated within certain hours of the day, if that's possible. But at least minimum, I like to have three spaces removed. The one's tuck in the corner. And one of the spaces up to the upper left. Okay. Mr. Domingo, are you talking about the two tandem spaces side by side or end to end against that wall there? Yes, the two ends. The two ends. And the one across from those. Yes, one across from them and the two ends. I'm not going to work. Okay, so how many spaces do you think will work? I say five. Okay. Okay. And I think Mr. Domingo's suggestion about a provide so on delivery hours is a good idea. How are the drawings for us? The drawings are adequate, Mr. Chair. Okay, any questions on the board? Is anyone here to speak on the project? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. There we go. Oh, good. So we didn't get a rendering up there. That's the decide. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Eric James of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for five, thirty two to five, forty two, River Street. How their butter is meeting on September 21st, 2022. They were met with a lot of support, very minimal opposition, the support signing that it was a new small minority business owned. And then they also had an approval by the Boston cannabis board as well. They met with the Greater Matter Pan neighborhood council. They chose to support this project with specific provisos. Signing the operations are on Sundays, our actor hours for the Church of the Holy Spirit on River Street. Parking law design be further reviewed by Boston Transportation Department to ensure adequate parking. And they continue to participate in the Edrawada Area Business Group to improve the physical conditions of the immediate area. Outside of that, we have received minimum of 100 letters of support for this project. And we are asking to defer our judgment to the board at this time. Thank you. Good morning, Chair, members of the board. Jordan, for you to hear from Donaldson Recorder, Royals office. Thanks for going on record and supporting this. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Emily Fulcicin. I'd like to go on record from Councillor Louis Jen's office in support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Jessica. This is Councillor Marpe and I am on to also go on record for supporting. Thank you. Thank you, Councillor. Thank you. No additional links, please. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I would like to put for a motion with three provisos. The first is being a BPD design review on the next year for signage. The second is to have BPD review with a reduction of parking to five spaces. And the third would be for this appellate only, for this applicant only. Okay. Do we want to put a provisos win about respecting delivery times? We can put the fourth provisos which is to have a restriction on loading times. Right. When the operation, silly is not operational. Yeah. I'm not clear how what would do that without, I am already putting a provisos to have a BPD design review with a reduction of parking and recommendation for loading hours. Okay. That sounds perfect. Okay. Is there a second for that? Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Yes. Done. Yes. Raza. Mr. Raza, are you muted? I think we just lost her. I think so too. Ms. Log. Yes. And I am in favor, but we need the fifth vote. She made the motion, Mr. Chair. She did. Did we lose her? Yes. She's off the screen. Okay. I tell you what. Let's proceed. And when she comes back, which I'm sure she will let's just make sure that we record an aye vote for her. Hang on. I just. I just wanted to. She said her power went off by accident. So. But she will be on. And just get Thomas, Thomas speaking Tom. Tom. Yeah, I just want to just say I don't think we should proceed with any of the hearings without at least five. Remember, present because the board doesn't have a quorum to make a kind of decision. Okay. She said she'll be on in two minutes. Okay. We can have a quiet two minutes. Well, if you want. If you wanted to recess for maybe five or ten minutes, people go to the bathroom or something. Why don't it's not it's 1126. Why don't we recess to 1130? All right. Thank you, Chair. Recording stopped. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You So describe us for ever a row at Telescope possible N-S-O-O. So that goddess holding a C-A-F pulled up 40 illusions. unfortunate power outage. We were taking the tally on the motion to approve the River Street project. You made the motion art. We need you to record that you were an iron eight. I was a yes. Okay, so the motion passes and good luck to the applicant. Let's keep going. Mr. Chabby, before we go to the next case, we did get a notice on regards to Blurra Lab for one call it into the record. We got a case BLA 141156, 0646 Blurra Lab, they had to burn. There was a personal matter that came up for the family, so I make the motion for deferral. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Was done? Yes. Mr. Buraza? Yes. Yes. Yes. I do in favor of the bid date is going to be February 28 at 930. Okay. Calling the next case. Calling BLA 140792433 West Glow Street. This will remove the existing to be attached to Raj, constructed and attached to Kaga Raj in powder room. The violation of Article 65 section 9, the fluid area ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, the front yard is sufficient. Article 65 section 9, the radiators is sufficient. Even address other activity. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. My name is Beni Bear. I'm an architect who is a side dress at 2001 Beacon Street, Suite 111 in Brighton, Massachusetts. The proposal is to remove the existing garage that you see on the left here. It's roughly 324 square feet. Then construct what you see on the right, drawing red lines. It's an attached to Kaga Raj, it's connected to the main house. It was just red. There's a three-barrelations here. The FER, the existing FER is already non-conforming. The increase in FER is from 0.5 to 0.7 from 0.5 to 0.57. The required is 0.5. As you can see, we're improving the non-conformity on both the front yard and the side yard. This is a corner locked. It's a tight situation. I think it's a very simple project. I'd be happy to answer any questions that's the board of the public. Okay, so the hang on. Can you go back down again? The access to the garage is from Garner Road. Is that correct? It's correct. As you can see, noted in red, there's a proposed new curb cut because the garage is moved. The existing curb cut be closed off on street parking? The existing curb cut is shown here. In reality, if you see the commission, there's really no sidewalk there, so there's no defined curb cut. Okay. All right. Can we keep scrolling down and see what the garage looks like in terms of floor plan and elevations? Okay, so there'll be two cars. Yeah. Okay. What is the height of the proposed garage? Can you scroll up please? It's hard for me to see, but it's indicated on the on the rights here. Okay, but the peak of the garage is even with the peak of that porch roof. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. All right. How are the drawings for Rosin? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Any questions on the board? Is there anyone here to speak on the project? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Connor Elling with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the Mayor's Office is like to defer to the judgment of the board. The backer information on the community process are off to both held meetings. The butter's meeting on August 23rd. The numerous of the butter's were in attendance in support of the proposal. The applicant went on to meet with the vote bill's neighborhood association where they express no concern to the proposed cabinet for the judgment of the board. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Joe McGeppran, so he comes to Frank Baker's office like to go on record support. Mr. Chair, I have no witness hands. Councillor Murphy and I would like to go on record and support also. Thank you. Thank you, Councillor. Mr. Chair, the secretary here. Okay, Paul. Sorry, Paul. No problem. Mr. Fuchina, Paul Stalin's, the council last Michael play, I took a record support. Sorry, Paul. Mr. Secretary, we do have three letters of support. Okay, can I have a motion please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with the PDA design review. No, I'm going to, I'm going to kick this one back to you. That sounds good. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Mr. Fortune. Yes. Long. Mr. Long, are you muted? Sorry, yes. Okay, Mr. Baraza. Yes. Mr. Logan. Yes. I'm favor the motion passes. Following the next case, following the B.O.A. 138-3316-12. This second for a march is a one-failee dwelling. Change our group to a two-failee dwelling. And it closed red acts. The Violet Staticle 56-29 side yard is in addition. Name and address for the record please. We are Daniels 12. My name is Daniels 12. I'm a member of my cellistry. Boston, Massachusetts. And can you tell us what you're proposing? I'm proposing to transfer this from a single family to a two. I'm doing no exterior construction. I'm, there's already two bathrooms present. I'm just adding a kitchen and doing some interior remodeling to accommodate some of my senior citizens who have been kind of displaced. Unfortunately, I'm unable to afford a marketable rent. So I'm trying to convert it so that I can bring my family inside the home with me. So you write each, there's a basement first floor and a second floor currently. Correct. And that's at the single family house and you want to make one unit, first floor, one unit, second floor? Correct, Mr. Early. Okay. What's the square footage of the first and second floor? Our apartment with 1100 square feet per unit. Okay, and how many bedrooms will they have? One bedroom units. Each one will be one bedroom. Yes, sir. And the basement will continue to be storage and utilities? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay, and there's no change to the exterior. All right, so, and the violation of side yard and sufficient is a preexisting condition, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. How the drawing is Mr. Roger? Is it here the plan to adequate? Any questions on the board? Mr. Chair, Secretary, is the work already been done? Is it started? No, sir. Okay. Okay. Anyone here who would testify on the project? Yes, good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Keisha Santana from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. And a butter's meeting was held back in September for this project, which there wasn't any notable opposition from the neighbors. And they also met with Highland Park of Neighborhood Association, where everything went smoothly there as well. So at this time, we would like to have different adjustments to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have no raised hands. Okay. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to perform motion of approval. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Done. Yes. Raza. Yes. Low. Yes. I too am in favor. Mr. Stone, what is your expected E.T.D.? At 1230. Well, 30. Okay. Mr. Fortune, should we check on the rediscussions of 1130, if there are any deferrals or withdrawals? Do that, Mr. Chair. You want to do the air? A little bit about the top hand. Okay. What's that? Would you like to do your talking? Okay. We are currently a five-member board, which means that we have a quorum, but it requires all five votes for a motion to pass. So as a result of being less than a seven-member board, any outcome is entitled to administrative deferral if they so choose. So I want to call the rediscussions at 1130. Or if there are anybody who's going to defer their project or withdraw, give it the address first, please. What do you have? I have two separate street, Mr. Secretary. And also, I have two companion cases under Union Street. Okay. Thank you. Calling a case B.O.A. 125861189 to 91 Union Street. There are two companion cases. B.O.A. 125861393 Union Street. B.O.A. 125861645 Shepherd Street. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. Good morning. Once again, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Attorney Maddacle with Dr. Ego and Skana with the business address of 11 Beacon Street. We are seeking administrative deferral on all three of these cases. Motion to defer. I'll second that motion. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Done. Yes. Graza. Yes. Rob. Yes. And I too, in agreement, the deferral has been granted. I have a date of February 28, 2023 and 930. Thank you very much. 64 o'clockwood Street. Secretary. For the record call of the B.O.A. 125637064CL. Name and address for the record, please. Good afternoon. Chairman, members of the board, Attorney Derek Small. It is just 51 adopts of growth. And we are here today seeking administrative deferral on all six of four o'clockwood. the most deferral? Yes. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Dong? Yes. Bra, Mr. Raza? Yes. The floor? Yes. I am also in favor of the project's been deferred. On the date of February 28th at 9.30. Thank you very much. I will be dead. Are there any other deferrals at Port-E Lake Street? Port-E Lake Street? Yes. On the day 1-2-2-8-5-6-0. Party Lake Street. Name and address for the rest of the week. Good morning, Mr. Chair. I'm just a board of Peter Kochansky from Coolston and Stores, 400 Atlantic Avenue and Boston, representing our client, the common room, seeking an administrative deferral. I think I'm most of the deferral. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Dong? Yes. Bra, Raza? Yes. The floor? Yes. 11-day, that's February 28th at 9.30. Thank you. Any other deferrals of withdrawals? 18-21-23. Mr. Chairman? 18-25-3. Colin Case, BLA-126-8903-18-25-3. Name and address for the rest of the week. My name is George Morance, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Barrow, and Shell Blossom, requesting an administrative deferral. Motion to deferral. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. The Dong? Yes. Bra, Raza? Yes. The floor? Yes. I'm also in a favor, motion to deferral. The date of February 28th. Thank you. 23-kennelworth? I'd like to defer. Okay. Two communication with that? Yes. 29-kennelworth and 49-deadly street. I have that. Will the record call in BLA-129-609-2-23-kennelworth street? There are two companion cases. BLA-129-609-3-27-29-kennelworth street. And BLA-129-609-4-49-3-3. Name and address for the record plate. Evan Smith, 23-kennelworth street. Make a motion to deferral. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. The Dong? Yes. Bra, Raza? Yes. Hello? Yes. I, too, in favor. The dose will be February 28th at 930. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals with rouse? Pretty much takes care of motion. Hold on, Mr. Carey. Do have one. Yes. One case here. Yep. You know. There was drawing. Okay. I'm going to make a motion. I'll call it into the record. Case BLA-8565-482-26-8-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2. There was drawing. I'll make a motion to deny it without prejudice. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Good going. Yes. And I, too, in favor. There are two projects still on the agenda for rediscussion that I don't think we'll get to about. We'll try to have best to try to get them. Very good. Thank you. I'm going to go back to, uh, next case, 1030 case BLA-1411-622-296-2306-Washington Street. This is adding existing use to allow restaurant to take out and live at detainment before and after 1030 p.m. The violation of Article 50 Section 10, restaurant, relive entertainment, it's conditional, regulation that use to take out Article 50 Section 43, Osterie Park, and he's in sufficient. I'm going to add just to the record please. Good morning, chairman and members of the board, lesson to Lenny Hawkins with the law firm of Prince Lovaltight, one international place in Boston, on behalf of the applicant, and with me are the three principles, billband field, Toronto RSC, and meagreys. Tell us what you're proposing, please. Thank you. We're here before you today seeking relief for a proposed full-service restaurant with seating for approximately 200 patrons, performance and event space, and take out and catering to be located in the Brucie Bowling Building at 2296-Washington Street in New Beans Square. We envision this not just as performance-facing restaurant, but as a community gathering space. Jazzurband entered into a lease agreement for the inactive portion of the Bowling Building with the city back in 2019 after an RFP process selected this team and this concept. As you can see from the plans, and again, this is a turn-down set. The space is approximately 78,000, I'm sorry, 7,800 square feet. There will be a dedicated entrance and exit at the corner of Washington Street and Warren Street. We're proposing sit-down dining, lounge and performance space on the ground floor with back of house to the rear and storage in the basement. Loading and deliveries will occur via the existing loading bay utilized by the Bowling Building, and we coordinated with the other tenants. All trash will be kept inside so there will be no outdoor impact for deliveries or for trash. Should we be granted the relief we requested today, we will be returning to the licensing board and the mayor's office of consumer affairs for a liquor license and entertainment license with closing hour. The home-rolled petition that the city of Boston actually put forward, which will create five new restricted liquor licenses for the Bowling Building, one of which will go to jazz or bay, actually has passed the legislature and is expected to be signed by the governor any day. So we're very excited about being before the board today. We've had a butter's meeting hosted by the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We've only received support. The principles of this group are all Black or brown, Boston residents who have very deep ties in the community. We had hoped to be already open by this point, following this process, but obviously the pandemic slowed us down. So we are hoping for June 2023 opening and we'd love to see everyone in this space. And with that, again, we're here to answer any questions. The team is here and I also want to just thank all of you for your service. Those who are staying on, we look forward to continuing to work with you. And I'm just glad I'm not here on a cannabis item as your last item with me. Well, some of us love jazz, so this is a good thing. I'm very familiar with the building. So the entrance, dedicated entrance to this will be right at the corner of Washington, exactly. Correct. Okay. Can we scroll back up to some of the, I'm a little confused about the use of the space. It's going to be both a restaurant and a performance space simultaneously. Yes, it is. And I actually will ask if Bill or Ron or Nia wants to explain. Let's leave it at that one. Okay. So in the green area, I assume that's dining, right? That will be dining. The center will be performance. And again, this was a turned on set. So there could be some tweaks. Obviously, we'll be providing a full set prior to build out. The center will be the performance space. It's an open concept. So that will have seats and tables. Then there's also tables in seating in the green area. The purple is the private dining room. And then to your left is the bar area. But patrons will be able to enjoy the entertainment from any perspective within the space. And the orange circle in the middle. That's a stage. That's a stage. Correct. I see the piano off to the side. All right. And there'll be tables around the stage. So, okay. Do you know how many tables are going to be? Let me ask you a different question. What's the seating capacity total and how is it broken? The capacity total and how is it broken down in the different areas? It's approximately 200 total seating capacity. And we're still finalizing exactly how it's going to be broken down. This is approximate. But the vast majority of it, as you can see, will be table seating throughout the establishment with only maybe about 20 bar seats. Okay. And there'll be no standing room where people want to watch the show, right? There are within our capacity the majority of it is seating. And there's also kind of a lounge area over to the right, which you can see to the far right in the green. And I assume by the title that this is going to be primarily oriented around a jazz selection of artists. Jazz selection, but really, Jazz are banging, which is Phil Bansfield reporting, recording studio and company focuses on jazz. But we're really going to be looking to bring in both local and national and international acts. And we feel like there's nothing similar to this in the area. Nia Grace, who is one of the proponents, is the owner and operator of Daryl's in the South Ed Lower Rocks area as well. Okay. Yeah. I mean, there isn't anything really low. Like what you're suggesting, which is a very welcome addition. Okay. And the hour to operation will be what? We'll be serving lunch and dinner seven days a week, Sunday brunch to start and we are requesting at 2 a.m. closing hour. Okay. And what will be the relationship with the kind of the foot traffic from the bowling building, the school department, etc. Because we have this dedicated entrance, and because when we think our hours of operation will be most impactful, obviously, in the evening, we don't foresee that as a problem. But we are obviously the city is our landlords. We're working very closely with the bowling building and all of the stakeholders to make sure that everything works in harmony. If you're open for lunch, I assume that some people who work in the building will be coming down and having lunch. Is there access from the lobby so people don't have to go outside into the dedicated entrance? No. There is no additional entrance. They wanted to keep it separate. Okay. So they will go outside the street, walk down to the corner, and then walk in that entrance if they want to do that. Correct. All right. How are the drawings, Mr. Faraza? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. I don't really have any questions other than if you can just describe how are your 200 patrons arriving? Do you see Half-A-Lum taking public transportation? Is there ballet parking? Is there parking that's being offered underground? Absolutely. So we're not offering dedicated parking with this space. We do think a lot of our traffic will be foot traffic. We do want to focus on the neighborhood. But that being said, we also want to encourage other folks to come in and enjoy this as an amenity. So while there is on street parking currently in the area, we will be in discussions as we continue with BTD for potentially putting in ballet and we're working to identify where those cars would be parked. But that is part of the conversation. Great. Thank you. Any questions on the board? Does anyone here to speak on the project? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. Kisha Santana from the Marist office and neighborhood services. We held in the butters meeting on September 28th, in which they did receive support as well as buying your right-game prayers. Civics as well. At this time, we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Paul Sol, the City Council, and I can make a clarity. Council to go on record and support. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, thank you very much for your service over the last 10 years. I've been here before the ZBA. And now Mr. Secretary, I see you around the neighborhood. Mr. Chair, the board. This is Emily Wilson from Councilor Luigi-Jones Office. We would like to go on record and support. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, my name is Representative Carpenters Union. On behalf of Congress of our members, Boston residents. I want to go on record and support. And I simply want to say that it is about time to see some great entertainment being brought to Dulling Square. For many years of a resident's in Dulling, Dr. Dulling, approximately, we have to go into back bay to Densial in other places. For some class entertainment, this is about time into CSCCL to support this project. Thank you. I have no additional ways to hand this to Chair. Thank you. Okay. Can I have a motion, too? Mr. Chair, I am enthusiastic about putting a forward motion of approval. I am Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Mizdon. Yes. Mr. Faraza. Yes. Mr. Low. Yes. And I am in eye with a second for enthusiasm. Motion passes. Thank you very much. Following an ex-case, Scotty V.O.A. 139-1362-106-120 Cambridge Street. This is the move to revise up for this petition only. This will be applying for 36A with takeout, 75% takeout. The violation of the article 8, Section 3, conditionally you have name and address for the record. Is there anybody on for Cambridge Street? Mr. Professor. Yes. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. I will go ahead. First of all, Mr. Namibian address please. This is Neil Patel, 106-120K. It's Street Boston. And what are you proposing? We are taking over an existing uptown cafe which used to be an uptown cafe. And we want to open up a shas halal food place, serving New York's trial, chicken all rice and lamb all rice and some good gairos to the community up there. And what is the name of the proposed restaurant? Shas Halal flute. Okay, and the Janet says this will be more than 75% takeout. It's Hanapas and takeout. There's no seats at all. Okay, it's very straightforward. Okay. How are the drawings of Mr. Raza? Mr. Trader Drung's adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anyone here to speak on the proposal? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, calling a new one with the mayor's office and able to put services. This time, mayor's office took the first judgment to the board. The background information on the community process. A flyer was circulated to a budget within 300 feet. They also met with the Beak and Hill Civic Association. There were some concerns over traffic, but ultimately they signed a good neighbor agreement with the local civic. I would now be deferred to the judgment board. Thank you. Anybody else? Good morning, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm a colleague from Council President Flings office. The councilor would like to go on recording support based on feedback from neighbors and the Beak and Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Thank you. I know additional raised hands. Thank you. So the applicant, have you had experience doing takeout before in the city of Boston? Yes. We all have a location of Shas Halal, which is open late night at 1124, Boyleston Street. And we also own one more place called Madras dosa Camprino in C-Port, which is open late night. And also another one called Wanga, Boston. That's located 102 water street. We are pretty good operator in the city of Boston. Okay. That's reassuring. All right. Can I have a motion then? This is Charling to put forward a motion of approval. And with for this applicant only with the usual takeout language. Correct. You can add those two. Yeah. All right. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Done. Yes. Rosa. Yes. Blow. Yes. I feel in favor and I look forward to trying your fair sometime. Following the next case, calling the LA-135-013-1145-1147 Saratoga Street. Mr. Bill, one dormer on each side of the building. One valve through a wet fire. One dormer put existing stairway and create one bedroom in the attic. The violation of the article 27G. This is in the East Boston I-5 article 53-6-9. Side-guided in the vision. An article 53-6-9. The radio got into the vision. Name and address for the record please. Mr. Santos. No, sorry. I have a question. I have a question. Laura. Yes. I'm. Good morning. Yes. My name is Evelyn and I'm the daughter of the owner. So we are proposed. What we are proposing is. I'm sorry. I think it's asking me. Go ahead. Say it. What? All right. All right. I'm going to go ahead and ask for a room. I'm going to go ahead and ask for a room. Which one will be used for a wet fire and the other one for a bathroom. And in the initial dormer just for the staircase and the back. And this will be just to add extra living space for a growing, growing family. That's all. Okay. And this is a single family house. No, this is a two family home. It's good family. Is it owner occupied on one of the floors? Yes. Okay. Both floors. So the dormer will only affect the upper unit. I assume the dormer. That is correct. Okay. All right. Seems really. And the very, the side yard insufficiency and rear yard insufficiency. They're existing conditions. Are they not? That's correct. Okay. This is Verizon. How are the drawings? The drawing to I equipments chair. Okay. Yeah. They don't extend beyond the footprint of the building. So that they. That's. Yeah. Okay. Any questions in the board? Is there anyone here to speak on the project? Anyone from the mayor's office? I have no way of standing at the moment. I don't think this is very, this is very straightforward. So can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. Second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. John. Yes. Robert. Yes. Love. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes. Good luck. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I want to go back to the case I called early. Case B, 08139050525 Orioles. Is anybody on for 25 Orioles Street? It's now. I'll throw a vote. I'm going to make a motion. Tonight. Would all right. Mr. Fortune. Yes. No. Yes. Rosa. Yes. There's no. Yes. I too. In favor. The problem. Case for 1130. We discussions. The problem. Case for 1130. We discussions. Call the case B, 08135275062 North Beacon Streaks. This is a fairly single failure into a three family dwelling. The violation is out of 51, section 56. R, street parking and loading. Article 51, section 80. Use of the bin and out of 51, section 9. Afflew the issue is excessive. I may add that a pillar. I'm not going to be the one. I'm not going to be the one. Is anybody on for North Beacon Street? I don't see anyone for that one here. Hold off on that one with a 10 cars in the street. Oh. Case for 1130. Case for 1130. Case for 1130. A, calling an X, case calling B, 08126515210 Cosm Street. I. This is a favor? Oh, one second. Okay, one. What does this human? Hi, she's here with me. I'm dependent. Sorry. Yeah, I believe she's here for that case. I just want to show you. Thank you. This is a paper stone driver, which can park to vehicles. Pave driveway in front of the house can let outside car movies and side car though. The Riley Staticle 65 section 41, R3 parking and loading. Article 65 section 9 of the front yard is insufficient. Article 65 section 9 of the side yard is insufficient. Even adjust to the record plate. Sure. So my parent, my mom, she, of this house, and it's on the occupied that it is. It's a single family, single family house. And we want to do the driveway in the front yard. And at first, we want to have the three parking spaces and OK, put a storage and then we realize that the last clock pen might not have sufficient space. And we decrease the parking spot from three to one or two so that they will have more space left. And second, we decide to keep the triangle shape or all the front, like on the left hand side of the front yard so that the green area in for future problems and we solve to. And the only one we also decided to change the page material from asphalt to paper stones. And I really need this parking spot because I had an angle fracture of a few months ago and I'm still under recovery. And I will need to relocate it to other state in February. And my mom, she doesn't know how to drive. And hence, I do just, I think, just because I'm not driving to the new state. OK, let me ask you a couple questions. On the drawing that we're looking at is the entrance into the house from those cross lines on the stairs going up to a deck. Is that how you get in the house? Yes. OK. All right, so I think we have this coming before us. Here's the issue. We don't approve front yard parking in the city of Boston, which means that, but theoretically, you've got a curb cut and a driveway, whether it's papers or asphalt, that could be extended further back. Is there good? Could the driveway be extended back further into what you've got described as a lawn area? Mr. Chabie, before the applicant seeks this, this came in front of the subcommittee last Thursday. And we felt it needed a full board. So that's why it was brought back. OK, OK, so it's a parking spot. So the bag would have been approved? Yeah, well, it won't be approved the way it is now. And city of Boston, you can't have cars in front of the house. So do you mean the parking spot needs to be at the back of the stairs? Or it needs to be extended further back. Continue the line that you have, the driveway. Extended further back so that the front or the rear of the car closest to the street is even with the front of the house. You need to have a front lawn, a front lawn without a car in it. So is it possible that I can ask my surveyor to change it for me? Yes. Sure. So is this case going to be deeper or...? Well, I mean, I think we could either approve it with a proviso that you change the... Or else we could defer it and you get it growing with the surveyor. And so, in some ways, it's up to you. I think it's better to do the surveyor mark because on the Google images, it looks pretty tight. So I would like to try to make our late confirmation of that dimension because there's a pinch point near that entry. But the Google map was the old one. Because during the renovation, I cut the stairs for a little bit. So it should be some space. Okay, well, I think Mr. Raza's point is that it would be helpful if you had a new, an updated surveillance map that appointed front yard parking and gave all the dimensions of the pinch points. Yeah, sure. Can I have a motion? I would like to confirm a motion of deferral. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Ms. Don? Yes. Mr. Raza? Yes. Mr. Globe, I agree. So to the applicant, what we're asking you to do is not much work. Take the same basic drawing, but just extend it for the, have you survey extended further back so there's no front yard parking and put all of the dimensions from the lot line to the house. So I know, call on. Yeah. Thank you so much. And that day will be February 28th at 930. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Mr. Chair, I'm going to go back to North Beacon Street, case B-O-A-135, 2750, 62 North Beacon Street. Is anybody on to 62 North Beacon Street? Mr. Chair, it's not for that. Secretary, this is Stephanie speaking. The applicant email me was having issues with the Rodgerman. Thank you, Stephanie. Will he be able to log in or should we defer it? I sent a link again to make sure that he's able to log in, but I think we best of speaking, maybe just defied. Okay. They were logging into ask for deferral. I'll make a motion for the deferral. Second. Mr. Fortune? Yes. Long. Yes. Mr. Raza? Yes. Mr. Globe? Yes. I do, my favorite. It'll be February 28th at 930. We have actually completed the agenda, Mr. Fortune. We have, Mr. Chair. Congratulations. Mr. Gothic. Mr. Gothic. And I also want to thank Mark Fortune and Mark Erlich for being on the ZBA with us and being our mentors throughout this process. I'd like to hear. Thank you. I hope you're welcome. I can go ahead, ZBA. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Not going to lie to you. I'm not going to miss it. Come on. Happy holidays. Enjoy the rest of the trip. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays. Happy holidays.