 you you you you work the hearing of the board is being held remotely by the WebEx platform and it is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this meeting of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and videoconferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's agenda which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter that virtual hearing is attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public. A number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers from members of the public who are most impacted by the project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the Raise Your Hand icon in the application via the WebEx event platform. To raise your hand, first click the participant information icon. From there, find your name and on the lower right hand side, you should see a hand raising icon. Click that icon and your hand will be raised virtually. Click it again and your hand should go down. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 3 to raise your hand. Again, press star 3 to raise your hand if you are connected by telephone. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide comments. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing and just a reminder so that we start off the new year on the right footing. If somebody has already stated your concern, either your concern or your reason for support, make sure you put your name and address on the record and just state that you are in support and that somebody else has already stated your concern or reason for support. This is important to us because we want to make sure we give as many people a chance to speak but please use your time to give us new information. For the attorneys out there, please spend your time telling us about the project. The Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services and the representatives of elected officials will talk through the process. So please focus your comments on describing the project so that we have a high level of comprehension about what is being proposed. Also, once anybody makes their comments, please lower your hand. So good morning board members. Let me do a quick roll call before I pass it over to Mr. Fortune. Mr. I see Mr. Fortune there. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Happy New Year. Mr. Oleg. Good morning. Happy New Year. Good morning, Chair. Happy New Year. Good morning. Happy New Year. Mr. Grigiro will be odd and when he is on, we will be notified. Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Happy New Year. Good morning. Happy New Year to you too. Mr. Ligress. Good morning. Madam Chair. Happy New Year. Good morning. Mr. Hampton. Good morning, Madam Chair. Happy New Year. Good morning. And happy New Year to you too. So just for the note for right now, we are running as a six member board, but we are expecting Mr. Hero on momentarily. Mr. Fortune. Madam Chair, the first owner of business, the approval of the Hairy Medicine, December 14th of 2021, we need a motion. Motion to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair, on the extension, I'm going to call the address in and then the applicant if they're here. And then I'll read what we have for tolling trolling on that. Call them the first case for extension calling B.O.A. 943 71159. Gov Street. Name an address for the record, please. He's here. I just made him a panelist. Want to David? Can you unmute yourself? Hello. Yeah, go ahead. Name an address for the record, please. Oh, David, tell her we know 416 A Cambridge Street, Winchester, Massachusetts. All right. Thank you, sir. This is regard 59 Gov Street. The board originally granted this relief on January 31st of 2020. So this is the applicant's first request for extension. The relief would normally expire on July, January 31st of 2022. However, trolling applies to this project to the relief remains valid with tolling the new expiration date of the relief is May 8 of 2023. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that this relief does not expire. Does not expire until that date and that the applicant may return and then to request their first extension if necessary. No move. May I have Mr. Ligris help us on this one? Sure. Madam Chair, motion to confirm that relief is valid through May 8, 2023. Is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. The board granted this relief after the beginning of the COVID state of emergency on March 10th of 2020. Tolling does not apply to this relief. The relief expires on April 30th of 2022. If the board concludes that an extension is warranted in this matter, I recommend confirming that tolling is not applicable here. Mr. Ligris. Do we want to hear from the applicant with respect to requested extension because there is no tolling yet? Let's go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. This is a larger project located in between the border of rebuild and get them mass cheesets. The applicant has gone through the process of construction drawings and for finance purposes, they will leave an extension to complete the construction documents and other testing to get everything applied. The applicant has gone through the process of construction and the relief expires on the site. The applicant has gone through the process of construction and the relief expires on the site. So may I have a motion please? I would like to confirm that tolling does not apply to either of these properties and motion to extend through April 30th, 2023. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Madam Chair. Madam Kim, Mr. Regario is on. Thank you so much. Welcome Mr. Regiro. Good morning. I'm going to call the next case for extension calling B.O.A. 875-587-25 Bentley Street. They have an address for the record police. Good morning and happy new year, Madam Chair. Members of the board. Attorney Matt Eckle, with Durango and Tuscano, with the business address of 11 Beacon Street here in Boston. On behalf of the applicant. Thank you. This is 25 Bentley Street. The border originally granted this relief on January 31st of 2020. So this is the applicant's first request for extension. The relief would normally expire on January 31st of 2022. However, tolling applies to this project to the relief remains valid with tolling the new expiration date of the relief is May 8 of 2023. I recommend that the board confirm for this record that this relief does not expire until that date. And the applicant may return then request the first extension if necessary. Motion to confer the relief is valid through May 8, 2023. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. Tongue and next case. Cong B.O.A. 985-489-85 field street. Name an address for the record police. Thank you. That one. Are you on? Yes. Hello. Good morning. Happy New Year. Yes, so the record, please. My name is Douglas. On active for the address 85 field street. Thank you. The board originally granted this relief on February 7th of 2020. So this is the applicant's first request for an extension. The relief would normally expire on February 7th of 2022. However, tolling applies to this project so the relief remains valid with tolling the new expiration date of the relief is May 15th of 2023. I recommend that the board confirm for the fuller record that this relief does not expire until that date. And that the applicant may return and request the first extension if necessary. Motion to confirm the relief is valid through May 15th, 2023. Second. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Tongue and next case. Tongue B.O.A. 979-536-346-348 west broadway. Name an address for the record police. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 west broadway in South Boston. Thank you. This regards to 346 B.O.A. west broadway. The board originally granted this relief on November 1st of 2019. So this is the applicant's first request for an extension. The relief would normally have expired on November 1st of 2021. However, tolling applies to this project so the relief remains valid with tolling the new expiration date of the relief is February 6th of 2023. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that this relief does not expire until that date. And then the applicant may return and then request the first extension if necessary. Motion to confer the relief is valid through February 6th, 2023. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Tongue and next case. Tongue B.O.A. 975-133411 east third street. Name an address for the record police. Good morning, George Marancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 west broadway in South Boston. Thank you. Regarding 411 east third, the board originally granted this relief on December 20th of 2019. So this is the applicant's first request for an extension. The relief would normally have expired on December 20th of 2021. However, tolling applies to this project so the relief remains valid with tolling the new expiration date of the relief is March 27th of 2023. I recommend the board confirm that the record the relief does not expire until that date. And the applicant may return and then request their first extension if necessary. Motion to confirm that relief is valid through March 27th, 2023. Second. All those in favor. Any opposed? Motion carries. Any opposed? Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. Motion carries. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Before we start our 930 hearings, we do have a full member board so we can proceed without any issues. I need to deferrals and which are also 930 only. If you can give me the address first please. Anybody just drew a letter? Address 1187 Blue Hill Avenue. We'd like to postpone. All right, thank you. Colin Ks. B.O.A. 125 9491 1187 to 1195 Blueville Avenue. Aiman Adget for the record please. Blue lead better. Address business address 31 standard street. We had a pan mask. Okay, tell us the reason for the request for deferral. So we are having some issues with the property and we're not sure we're going to be moving forward with this location anymore. So we need to defer until we can sort that out. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion, please? Motion for deferral. Is there a second? No. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please? Well, we have dates in February and to March though. We can do February 15. Okay. February 15 to 1230. Is there a second? Oh, I'm sorry. So we're all set. Will see February 15. Are there any other deferrals that would draw us the 930 only? Yes. Secretary, 18-20 parkman street. Thank you. Hold on two seconds and find the parkman street. I'm sorry. Yes, that's great. 18 to 20 parkman. Thank you. Calling VOA 126 890318 to 20 parkman street. Name and address for the record please. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is George Moran. I'm returning with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. George, I would like to request to defer in order to complete community process. This is an address that is on the periphery of both the Fields Corner Civic Association and the St. Mark's Area Civic Association. Fields Corner has in fact voted on this. St. Mark's has not. Well, it's not technically within the jurisdiction. They have membership in the area. They have asked us to present to the St. Mark's board on February 22nd. I would like to honor that request and request to defer all today. We have a set may have a motion. Motion to defer. Second, all those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date placed. Mr. Moran, did you say February 22nd and January 22nd? Yes, we need to present on February 22nd so we have to kick this into March. Oh, yeah. You'll have a date of March 22nd at 1230. Thank you. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930 only? Yes. 20 and 22 Gay Lord Street. Thank you. Thank you. Further Recreation following BOA 12714820 Gay Lord Street. There is a painting case. BKA 127141122 Gay Lord Street. Amen. Address for the record. Andrew Litchfield, 14 Old Mill Road, no four masks. So tell us why you're asking for a deferral. Yes, I'm requesting a deferral because the updated refusal letter was not received in time and the city needs time to re-avortize the ZBA date. So you've changed your plans then. Adjusted your plans. Okay, may I have a motion to defer? Is there a second? I can. Ligress. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Date, please. We'll have a date of February 15th at 1230. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930 only? Hearing none, I'll call the first case. Following BOA 1133495174 Lexington Street. This is a change of argument. Three family dwelling to a four family dwelling. The violation of Article 53 Section 8. Youth for regulations. Article 3 Section 56. Pass from packing and loading. Article 53 Section 9. The additional lot of areas of provision. Article 53 Section 9. The floor of the ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9. The usable of the spaces and sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Name is David Choi. Architect representing the applicant. Mr. Marley Martinez. Okay. Please tell us how is that fourth unit going to be accommodated? And how many square feet is it proposed to be? The proposal is to add 1,500 square feet of living space to the lower level. The lower level is exposed on the Lexington Street side, as you could see. This is a very unique condition in that there is a deep front lawn of this, of property that is immediately adjacent on the left side, allowing for natural light to come in. And the owner applicant would like to take advantage of this unique condition for having a, basically, a lower level unit. The ceiling height will be 7 foot 6. It is 7 foot 6 turn. Okay. What so it's 1,500 square foot unit. Tell us about how the, how the, it's going to work. Tell us the floor to sell height. And how the second means of egress is going to work. The windowsill will be 44 inches at the maximum. The egress windowsill that you see on the bedroom on the left side of the plant, we are, we could actually achieve that at 24 inches because the site is so much lower on that side. The bedroom in the back, there is a lawn in the back and we are planning to install a, there is an existing egress window, but we're trying to make that into a legalized egress. So, 44 inches, again, the height of the ceiling is 7 foot 6 inches as measured currently. And the second means of egress, there is currently an existing stair to the first floor, which will allow the occupant to go to the rail of the site and to egress out on the left side of the building. Please confirm that I'm reading the plants correctly. So, it appears that the only windows are proposed for the two bedrooms, and there is no light in the dining area or any place else in the proposed unit. The plant is cut at, unfortunately, 36 inches, and therefore the window at the kitchen will be, there will be a window that is set higher than the egress windows and apologize for not indicating that on the plant. And I believe the dining, we could, we do have an ability to create a, a trans window in that area. Okay, and so let's see, so there are a number of additional violations. Can you tell me what makes this project special, or this, this thing special that we should be changing the occupancy? Because it's to me that this already has a high use. Thank you for that question. If, if, if we could go to the top of this sheet, I just want to focus on the way that, if you look at the photograph, the reason why I included this photograph is to show, if you scroll to the top of the page, you could see that the lower level is actually quite much lower than the, the first floor. There's a stair that is the first floor, and there is a quite a bit of setback on the property on the left, which will allow for natural light into, into this lower level unit. It's a very unique condition because in East Boston, you would see a lot of trouble decors that are side by side. And I understand that the board does not look favorably upon creating a dungeon-like space. And so this, this is a unique condition in that there is an exposed side, and we will then, we would like to take it as much advantage of that. And we do believe that it is an owner, it will be an owner-occupied unit. So these, these existing condos? I believe there are rentals, they're, they're owner, it's owner-occupied. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans certainly indicate the scope. I'm not quite sure because there is, there really is no adjacent grading information. I'm struggling a little bit with understanding the grades to window, to basement, here, because as I see it in this photo as a good moment to look at it, you can see on the bottom left there seems to be a common access door to the utilities, which I understand. And then the windows directly show next to that, but adjacent to that are stairs up. So I'm not sure if even the bedroom window that's called out on the lower level plan is, is going to get to the natural light. Mr. Choi, can you confirm that? Because it's a little hard to tell on the drawings. It looks like the stairs up where the grade starts to rise is closer to the front of the house than that proposed new window. Actually, if you go to the plan that is to the immediate left of this same page. The window will be actually installed 44 inches and we will have to move the stair to the back in order for that to work. And so how wide is that passageway then? It looks like what is the dimension of that passageway? I believe it's 2.8 feet, which I believe is 32 inches. 32 inches from the wall to the property line from the building wall to the property line. Yes. Sorry, Mr. Robinson, any other questions? Just a question of access. So this unit, if it's approved, will be accessed through the rear. Is that correct? So you'll go, you'll walk by the building, find the rear deck, and then you'll find the stairs down. Is that correct? This unit will be accessed from the front, which is on Lexington Street side. As you can see on the photo, it's at a much lower level and it will be primarily entered in from the front. Madam Ambassador, can you go to the plan? Can you, can we identify, can the architect for the applicant identify which, which, is this the right, right, right, right? I don't see the access there from the front. And I see the common areas there, but that is a low door. And, or is that what you're saying is the entry point to that unit? Yes. Okay. Any, any other questions from the board? Yeah, I have a series of questions. Mr. Choi, are there any elevations that you have that can clarify this issue about the relationship of the unit to grade? I have, I did not provide that in this submission. Okay. That's certainly a problem for me to support this. The utilities are in that little space. What common utilities that's for all four units? Is that right? Yes. It will be, and yeah. So you walk down into that common area, then you can go straight ahead into the utility room or you can go into this new unit. Yes. Okay. All right. I'm, I'm sure I'm seeing the options of elevations. It's, uh, I don't feel there's enough information for us to make an intelligent and useful decision. Okay. Um, let's go. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition at this proposal? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, calling our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services. At this time, the mayor's office is elected to refer to the judgment of the board. We have some background information on the community process, conducted by our colleague, um, indicated that he received support from the butters in the Eagle Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador. Do you have one raised hand? I'm just see if it's for those case. Um, collar. 617959 and you get to give testimony on this proposal. I've sent a request to immediately. I have no additional raised hands. Okay. Um, now that we understand, I'll partially understand the technicalities of this. Um, may I have a motion, please? Um, I'll make a, I just think it's, there's not enough information here to work by and I'll make a motion to deny. Second. All those in favor? To deny. Amendment with all prejudice. Just in case we get information and come back. Yes, Mr. Regerio. Yeah. I'll, I'll, I'll, the dem. That, that's fine. I think we just don't have enough information to really weigh in on this. Is there a second? I'll, I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following an X case, calling the OA 1133497, 93 Falcon Street. This is a change of October, a two family to a three family, and we're going to be able to construct a new third story edition and third dwelling unit. The violation of the article 2017-5. This is the East Boston iPod article 53 section 56. I'll speak back in sufficient article 53 section 8. Three family dwelling uses for bit article 53 section 52, Rufstrascher, restriction. Article 53 section 9, the floating a ratio is excessive. Article 53 section 9, the Bill and I success stories. Article 53 section 9, the side yard, the submission, and Article 53 section 9. The Ray God is in submission. Name and address for the record please. Name is David Choi, architect representing Mr. Grieb, the owner of the property. Okay, so please tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing to add a third floor to this existing two story structure. And that is the idea is to have a typical three level townhouse structure that is very commonly seen in East Boston. And the idea was to be consistent with the neighbor surrounding neighborhood. We are not proposing to add a unit to the basement instead. We are going to add the third level. This will be again, a owner occupant. Okay, so tell us about the proposed about the proposed the size of the proposed unit. We're proposing to add approximately 1400 square feet of addition to the third level. Okay, the existing egress two means of egress that is there. Okay, and every all units will be accessed through that front door. Yes, ma'am. And is there a roof deck proposed? We did not add the roof deck in the elevation. That was not something that the neighbor wanted to see exceed the height of the 35 feet. Okay, and this is a proposed four bedroom unit. Okay. How are the plans? Mr. Robbins. Plans are good. No questions. I think the scale is consistent with the street. I don't have an issue with this proposal. The question I had for the proponent is there is a bulkhead shown on the back. I guess if there's no roof deck, do you need the bulkhead? Or obviously the board is sort of not excited about bulkheads either. So is that something that can be removed? Yes, sir. If it pleases the board and Madam Chair, we will certainly remove that and not have access to the roof. The deck was actually removed, but not the bulkhead. So that could certainly be removed. No, no other questions. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office selected deferred to the judgment of the board. I will have some background information on the community process. As you have been mentioned, there were some initial concerns regarding the height, and it was initially voted down at the Civic Association. After that, changes were made based on the feedback from the community, the proposed height was reduced as well as the roof deck. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no worries, TNs at the moment. Okay. I just Jeff, did the BPD have comments on this? Yes, we recommended approval with the ISO on this one, Madam Chair. Right? Is this Falcon Street? It is. It is. Sorry about that. Yeah, just with special intentions of the corners in the materials that are there before. So you are recommending approval with design review. Yes, Madam Chair. May I have a motion please? Motion over approval with BPD data designer with your providers. BPD data design review and the removal of the bulkhead. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you very much. The next two cases calling B.O.A.127045146 High Street. There is a companion case B.O.A.127. 045646. R. High Street. This is the 46. High. This is a conjunction with 46. R. High. Two buildings on the same lot. Violates is Article 62, Section 19. This is the neighborhood design overlay district. Article 62, Section 30.132. Article 62, Section 32, Section 30. The 12, the dwelling should not be built to the rear of another dwelling. Article 62, Section 8, the rear yard is sufficient. This is for 46. R. High Street. Directing three stories to be family dwelling. Violations, Article 62, Section 8. Dimensional regulations. Article 62, Section 19. The neighborhood design overlay district. Article 62, Section 30, Section 13. Two more buildings on one lot. Article 62, Section 62, Section 30, Section 12. The dwelling should be built to the rear of another dwelling. Article 62, Section 62.8, the rear yard is sufficient. Any other address for the record? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board. Attorney Derek Small. I'm the address of the two more blocks in the road. Very true best. With me today, on the call is the architect, I'm the champion. You can go over the plans as well. Today we're here seeking relief to a record three-family dwelling. Here, of an existing building, six parking spaces. Zoning sub district is a 3F2000. Our lot size is 9,021 square feet. The violations are as follows. Very outset back, you require at least 20 feet. We have five feet, nine inches of the rear. Pain entrance for two units on one side. Thunder will point out the main entrance for the first unit is facing. I3, the other two are facing into the passageway in the courtyard. And it is, you know, overlay district. I'm Chair, the units will consist of three bedrooms, two and a half baths, and in our front, at least 20, 400 square feet. And for the record, we are not cited for FAR, but to be quiet FAR is 2.0. The existing FAR is 0.59, and we are proposing 1.0. It keeps us below the required FAR. I'll turn it over to Linda now, and she can go through. Before we go on the other counselor, can you tell us what is in the existing building? In the existing 46 high street building, is that a 1, 2 or 3 family? There are five units existing, 46 high street buildings. There are five units in your proposing adding three more, so that on a 9,000 square foot lock, you will have eight units. And this is a 3F 2000. Okay. That's correct. Okay. And can you tell us something about the existing building? What's the size of the general range of sizes and bedrooms of those units? Yes. There are two bedrooms. I am most of the units of between 1,000 and 1,000. And sorry, 1,000 in one? 2,000 square feet. Okay. Okay. So Ms. Nisham, can you please go ahead with your brief presentation? Yes. Thank you. This is a very large lot, as you have put sea from the site plan for you. And we are proposing building in the back of a lot, where there is quite a drop off of the hill. And our setbacks are exceeding the setbacks in the 3F 2000. So we are 11 over 11 feet from the side property line to the right, as you're looking at the plan, and over five feet from the opposite side property line. So it's a very important thing to be able to be possible to scroll back to the beginning of this. It would be helpful, but I don't know if that's possible. Thank you. There we go. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Which is this the correct drawings, great. Okay. So if you could. Yes, that's the correct drawing. Thank you very much. Thank you to the view of the setbacks. And they are facing green street, as you can see, that each of them has their own backyard with their second means of egress is through their backyard and a long passageway that takes you either out to high street at the front. We're back to a 30 foot wide common passageway at the end of the year. So we are all parking for this project will be under the building, taking advantage of the difference in slow from front to the back, which is approximately 14 feet high difference. So that there will be no parking taken up on the street and loss of parking spaces. And then just ask you so if I was in a vehicle, I would come off of high street drive down that driveway and go directly into. No, no, no, no, if you were in a vehicle, you would be driving down green street, which is the street that's perpendicular to high. And if you just if somebody could scroll that down a little bit, you'll see the passageway. I see okay. There you go. So you can drive in the passageway and under the building. So we have complete parking under the under the wall in there six parking spaces. If you could scroll further. One question is that passageway in joint ownership. Tell us about that passageway. Yes, it is. It is. In joint ownership access by the immediate butters and those immediate butters are the Abraham Lincoln Post, which is otherwise called Memorial Hall, which is right to the left of our site. And the first church of Charlestown, which is on the opposite side of the passageway by our lot 46 and by the lot next door at 44 high. Believe those are all of the of the letters. And are there roofed exp proposed? There is a roof deck proposed. Yes. And you will see that if we could scroll further down. We'll see that. This is the parking level that you're seeing. First floor level. That this is the yeah, the six parking spaces, whether or not. Here's the first floor level. Second, which is two bedrooms on each. Third floor, which is a master bedroom and study. Above that, we have a roof deck that roof deck also will enclose the airhand, I'm sorry, the condensers for the three units. If we scroll further on. You will see there the roof decks are in totally enclosed on all sides so that we're not actually looking through open relays there. And how is the roof, how are the roof decks accessed? Each roof deck is an individual roof deck access by the individual townhouse. I'm sorry. Thanks. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr Robinson? I mean, I think the plans are representational of the proposal. I do have a question. On 46th High Street, there is a survey site plan that shows a much different footprint. Can you explain what that? That appears to be an error, frankly, in the. There should be a properly scaled building back there to be honest. It's a much smaller footprint. And I guess I'm trying to understand. If that's an old version, if you scroll to the next page, I think you'll see a different footprint. No, maybe it's in the other file. There's two files. It looks like in the other file, there was some sort of an error because that was an earlier earlier version. And that earlier version was reviewed in some detail with the community, both the blooders and the preservation society. And the first proposal had been a two unit, but four store. I'm sorry. Sorry. Excuse me. I didn't mean to say that. I mean, it was a four unit and four story building. So although it was further back on the site, it was much closer to the two property lines on the. Side of adding number 44. It was three feet away from the property line. And we're now. And can you just explain to me, because it's a lot of tell the building to the right hand side. It also has a very long extension that seems to run on the same. What is that building? That building is interesting in that the front portion of it is a complete mirror image of the original brick, both front. And attached to it are a series of townhouses that come up about between two and a half and three feet from from the property line, the side property line. And that I believe was developed in the 80s. I had. As an angel is all my question. It's resident. Yes. I mean, I think it's probably pretty clear. And at least from my opinion, this just feels like it's being wedged into the back very tight on all sides. But I'll look forward to additional questions from the board. Any other questions for the board? Yeah. Well, several questions. Why Mr. Small, why was there a choice made to put two buildings on one log, which is you know, it's not something that's important. It's very keen on as opposed to subdividing the lot. Yeah. I think the front and the rear properties will be in common ownership. And I think that when we're at ISD, they were told that the time was told that we could go back and subdivided later if necessary. If that's something that the board would desire, we just welcome up provide so that we subdivided. Okay. I'm not suggesting that that that's what happened because then you've got you got what a 9,000 square foot lot with eight units. You know, you're already. It's a very, very dense situation. So I don't think so. The fighting is just a solution. I'd like to put out the front units are being converted. There's going to be a gut rehab of that. It's going to be going from five units to three units. I know Miss O'Azo did ask what is currently there. Current occupancy of the front building is five units. But in the gut, we have of that property as well. We are reducing that. Okay. So the total would be six units on that lot. And it still strikes me as being quite dense. But anyway, thank you. Those are my questions. Question. Was there any exploration in other words to give breathing room because it does feel that it is kind of wedged in there to a smaller. Small building, maybe two units, some other option. It was discussed very briefly. Because the property as the decision to our test townhouse is very similar on the other side. We were just trying to mirror some of the stuff that was already in the area on the other side. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak and support our not position of this proposal? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. The Unchiefable Assembly of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office held to a butters meeting for this proposal. The first meeting was on September 2, 2020. Following this, a butters meeting. The applicant took in the concerns request of the neighbors and completely revised the plans. A second meeting was held on October 13, 2020, where the plans were presented. Along with the shadow study that was requested by the neighbors. He also met with the applicants individually. I mean, the butters individually at the property. After the second, a butters meeting, I received no opposition, but our office did receive 70 signatures of support and a letter of support from the Charles town Preservation Society. At this time, we defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have those letters that may as office spoke them, but we also have one letter of opposition. I think I chair. I do have one raised hand. I'll open it up to Stephen. Can I mute yourself? For your time today, I'm here with Council Murphy's office. Council Murphy, apologize for not being present to our meeting running late, but Council Murphy is in support of this project on high street and one of her staff to be present to voice her support. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Have no additional grays to hands at the moment, not chair. Okay. Mr. Hampton. Thank you, Madam Chair. The BPDA recommended to know without prejudice on this. A lot of our feelings on this proposed project have already been expressed by the board. I think it's been a long time since we've been in the process of making a decision to make a decision. In terms of massing, trying to wedge in to another three units to onto this lot. One of the other issues that we had, the passageway, if you look now, even if you go out to the site where people are parking with that passageway, I know there are signs that say no parking. I don't know if this is something where we put a proviso where we subdubbed the parcel. Is this going to create more ZDA hearings? Because now you're throwing these buildings possibly into violations, so we would have liked to have seen the subdivision plan go forward at the same time as this. I just, I hate to see this come back again before you just because not that sometime. But we recommended that I'll come back. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Sorry, go ahead. I just wanted to make note that I know with regards to the BPDA recommendation, with regards to some of the stuff they mentioned in the recommendation. We had, with the above us, with regards to the light areas, as I was saying, was mentioned that we did do a light air study. And we were made adjustments in the plans to widen and let them be dropped. I can toss this way on the side so that those issues weren't taken care of prior to after the recommendation had come up. We did do stuff in the middle of the morning. Thank you for having a small. Okay, let's just clear the deck and just have a conversation with the board. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to deny without prejudice. I just think it's too dense. I think the site plan associated with address 46 that we didn't see with a smaller footprint to me makes more sense on the site. I think it's just, it's just filling the site too much in my opinion. Is there a second? Yeah, I agree with that second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I opposed. Look, we're supposed to. I opposed. Okay, there's two oppositions. There's five in support of the motion. So motion carries for denial without prejudice. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Call the next case calling B.O.A. 1264575417-423.C. West Broadway. This is a change of our. The market. The market by basement area from storage to an indoor golf facility with accessory bar and restaurant to include a podcast studio. Then for ten and fiddle the violates at the 68 section seven amusement game simulator or commercial establishment. It's a bit. Atical 68 section seven entertainment recreation will use accessory bar or buyer. Atical 68 section seven basement accessory restaurant. Yeah, we did. I come. Atical 68 section seven. Production. Yeah. Atical 68 section eight. Excessive FAR. An article 68 section 33. Austrian parking loading. They have an address on the record, please. I've been mourning Madam Chair members of the board attorney Nick Zuzula, a mixed medical familiar 28 states. Three is often happy New Year to everybody with me today is getting a card from P.I.C. Entertainment LLC who is the proponent in our architects James Christopher from road Christopher architect. Danny's just a little bit of background. Danny's a local self-host and resident. He grew up in self-host and then still lives in the neighborhood. And what he'd seen is an opportunity for a unique hospitality concept on West Broadway. So he's in permission to fit out existing space. I am established new legal uses and occupancy in the basement level of the existing building out on West Broadway 417 to 423 feet. This is on the corner of West Broadway and F street. And this would be the CVF building Madam Chair members of the board. This is a long existing commercial building in the neighborhood. And this concept would be located in the basement space that's existing there and is vacant at this time. So let's. So Mrs. Let's. Let's cut directly to the chase. Okay. What is the square feet of this is the total square feet of this proposed facility and there are three forbidden uses. So can you please go directly and talk to those because I'm interested in what this quote accessory bar and restaurant will look like. Yes, ma'am. I'm happy to do that. So this would be one of the you know, open is the Broadway golf club. It's an indoor golf club. It will feature six golf simulators, simulator rooms powered by, you know, top of the line, track and golf equipment. And with that, that's the main portion of this. The space is five thousand square feet. A lot of the space is occupied by that by those simulators because you need room. The slaying golf club. And so a lot of the space is program space. There's also back of the house and some kitchen space. And the component here is just like if you were at a typical outdoor golf course anywhere in the state of Massachusetts. There's almost always a 19 pole, which is a restaurant in bar. We're folks who finish playing around the golf and grab a hot dog in a beer and sit and tally up their scorecard or watch the end of the, you know, the game. And for the end with the people that played golf was to kind of unwind after the round. So that's where the accessory restaurant in bar comes into play. It's a small component of the overall floor space in the in the concept because a lot of it's taken up by that. Programable space, but it's an important concept as kind of an accessory used to be overall idea of this indoor golf club. And what are the proposed hours of operation? Yes, man. So if you look at it, we, it was up a previous slide ago. Perfect right here. Thank you very much. Madam and that. So you can see here we looked at a lot of the operation. The proposed hours would be 80 m to 12 a.m. So, you know, typically golf is, you know, in normal summer hours is about 6 a.m. So, you know, when the sun goes down at that's about 8 p.m. You know, this was provided an opportunity for, you know, frankly, people to play golf and sell, sell, sell, and sell pots and all your long. Not only there in the summertime, but also night golf as well. Obviously, it would be indoors. So the hours would be 80 m to 12. They would, it would be close as well before, you know, any of the other bars or restaurants on West Broadway. Okay. And then it looks like how are you going to accommodate your off street parking and loading? Yes, ma'am. That's a great question. And one that we've worked on a lot to get to this point, not only internally, but with the neighborhood. You know, the biggest thing here that will mitigate any parking issue is that this is going to be entry by T time holding meeting the unit of reservation or appointment to come play golf cannot to show up and walk in the door. And that's going to mitigate any parking concerns or issues we do need zoning relief for the off street parking and sufficient. There's just no available on tight parking is an existing commercial building. We have no way out from to accommodate parking. We have looked into we have looked into off site. We have looked into off site parking for third parties. You know, with third parties will continue to look into that. So right now we're not proposing any parking on site and there's not available. But again, we would suggest that the operation itself will mitigate any of the parking issues because there's just only so many people can play golf at one time and six and the next thing you later in around a golf for four people takes four hours. So there will not be a mad dash of folks trying to park at one time or or by basically in the area. And tell us about deliveries because sometimes we see deliveries blocking streets blocking. Panging over the sidewalk. How are deliveries going to be accommodated? Yes, ma'am. Another great question to one that we've worked on with the neighbors quite closely. So this has been an existing commercial building. There's again a PDF from the ground floor. All deliveries and trash will be handled through the main building entrance on Broadway. And we are looking to tie into how the existing tenant do that. So we are not increasing any burden or any traffic as a result. Again, I also would note that this is, you know, 5,000 square feet, but there's a lot of programs. Fates and the kitchen and the back of house will be very small. We don't anticipate a lot of traction delivery, but those that will be coming in will be accommodated through the commercial front door entrance as the current tenants do as well. And the final question is this going to be handicapped accessible? From that I will, I believe it is, but I will talk that I will start James because we are. There will be too many to accessibility to the building. The primary entrance on West Broadway has a full elevator. Which will be able to access the basement lower level space. And the entrance off of that street will also accommodate a little lift. So that anyway entering off of that street will be able to come in and get down to the lower level. Thank you. Mr Robinson, how are the plans? The plans are good. Really no questions. The food service aspect is quite small. I think it's 200 and 500 square feet. So Mr Zazula, is it? I'm just counting. So, you know, there's six simulators. I guess you go with maybe a four some I don't play golf. So 24 people maybe with some residual. I mean, is this like an occupancy of 30 or something? And plus probably some staff, obviously. But so fairly low. Yeah, yeah, yes, yes, and so are all the correct. So I mean, most days, be total occupancy for the entire day would be under 100 people. Because one person accounts for one hour to play around the golf when you have a four some, which is what would be our simulator. So that's one at four hours. And that so the math comes out to be if you had four people playing around the golf for four hours, there's only six pop full tea times that that is 24 times four. That's only 96 people. So the occupancy at any time would be about 30 and actually throughout the entire day would be would be, you know, roughly around 100 for the golf. And then the access point. This is for Mr. Christopher. So you're utilizing the existing access mainly off of West Broadway. Correct. There's a common for the rest of the building tenants and you're coming in through that. No, the primary answer to be on that street. Mr. Rob, look at a one on one. There's in the photographs as an existing door that we will. So we will open that and then there'll be a that'll be the primary investor entrance. Gotcha. Okay. So there are. So you are going to make some exterior upgrades to that F street side. Yes, just to the entrance. Okay. Go. And no further questions. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Just a couple of questions. What is the current use of this space? That's the same. It's vacant storage. Thank you. Storage. Okay. So what I mean with for all his anticipation of something like this being done. I don't I don't believe so I don't want to speak to the landlord Mr. Erlich, but I think you know, just indoor golf simulator is the very unique and new concept. I don't think there's several in Boston, but not very many and you know, the technology is caught up so much recently that they're now starting to pop up. I don't think they ever planned on having anybody or at least this type of use in the space. I hope to know stimulated golf course. I don't believe so. We can work on that for you if you need one. Any other questions for Stella? Like you good? Is anybody go ahead any other questions from the board? Yeah, I just had a couple of what's the seating capacity of the restaurant? So in the pension area, there'll be a total of seven seats in the lounge area. There'll be 22 seats, including some tables and at the bar. And then in the VIP simulator, there'll be additional nine seats. And so you mentioned that the golf was by appointment only. So are the only guests utilizing the restaurant bar VIP lounge? Are they only the folks that are RSVPing for the golf or can? That's what you're welcome to. T-Tank for entries. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I just wanted to remind you members of the board here on names, office, neighborhood services at this point, I'd like to defer to the board for the vote. We just like to echo the fact that this applicant has worked really well with the neighbors and gained a lot of support letters. Thank you. Madam Chair, we do have letters of support. We also have one letter of proposition. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sallin, and the FCD Council last make a clarity. no article 68 were an extensive process of encounter approach to making assistance. Over the council, recognize that there are time for these variants to stop the existence of high chip. The F-40 deferred reports and knowledge and interppings zoning was as it pertains to these high chips. And the council also laid to note that the establishment would be locally owned and at the University of M. T. M. and the options along Broadway. Most importantly, the council laid to stress that this difference approved that the proponent continued to work closely with the neighbors to address the quality of life concerns and reason to be phased in the project. We can put that here. Thank you. Next, do you have one raised here? Thomas, go ahead. Can we say your name and address for the bracket please? Thomas. Hello? You're muted just then. Okay, go ahead, Thomas. Good morning. Hello, my name is Thomas Regan. I'm an owner of Regan's Motivated Fitness located at 315 West Broadway. I'm a self-awesome, following the support Danny Picard has been a member of our gym for the last 15 years and always showing support to any event that we've hosted for our community. Also, outside of that, I posted three sports and conditioning camps for the youth of self-awesome for over 10 years and for several of those years. Danny Vaughn shared out of no monetary reasons for his own other than health and community. So I think that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Can I, the next people please talk about the proposal and the impact of the neighborhood? Are there any more raised hands? Good morning. Sorry. Sorry. Good morning, Madam. Please go ahead. What's the, you're coming in now? You were coming in and out. Okay, could you give me better? Yes. Good morning. Can you hear me better? Yes. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair and members. For Vanessa Lee from Counselor's President Ed Flynn's office. We'd like to support community process by the proponent and work with the neighbors and surrounding civic groups. The proponent was able to, three of those neighbors nearby from this location. We asked that the proponent continue to work closely with the community issues that may arise during this process. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Miss Ambassador. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I'm very, one more raised hand that just came up. Ryan, could you go ahead? Hi, Ryan, I took the head. Part of the street. I remember about six blocks down the street. Do you want to call and support this project? I think it's a unique opportunity in this neighborhood. I know Danny personally. I actually didn't know about this until yesterday. I received an email and I just thought it was a great idea. And it's one of the call and support Danny. And this endeavor, they're going to be a unique act to a neighborhood. And I think the birds, the birds will be metamorphosed to the... Thank you. Thank you, miss. So, may I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? It's like a second. All those in favor? Hi, Kyle. Any host? Motion Terries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next case. The OA-1270-821-123 Fisher Avenue. This is a two-family construction. The violation. Article 59, Section 3812. Two more dwellings on the same rod. Article 59, Section 8, the front yards, and the sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Fisher Avenue on. Let's come back to it, too. Please. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I couldn't find the unmute button. Name and address for the record, please. Margaret Cohen, 129 Fisher Avenue. Also, Richard, you're down 129 Fisher Avenue. Where the applicants and very large are architected. Okay. So, please tell us what's being proposed. We are proposing... We live on a large lot on Fisher Avenue, Mission Hill, which is a very steep slope. Our house is at the back of the hill. We are proposing to build a two-family house in front of our house, which we can know is not a permitted use, in order to be able to stay on the property as we get older. And not have to... Right now, we carry everything up 53 steps to get to the house, including our bicycles. We bike a lot. So, let me just ask you, the existing building is what? One family or two family? Two family. The existing building is a two-family, and you're proposing a new two-family. That is correct. And what is the zoning district here? I... Are you guys... Oh, quiet. No, go ahead. I'm going to... Is that three-family, two-thousand, I believe? Three-family, two-thousand? Yes. How large is your large? Approximately 7,000. Okay. And let's see... And how large are the proposed unit sizes? So, there is a one bedroom unit that is approximately 700 square feet, and then the other unit is about 1800 square feet. Altogether, you know, including this stair that is in the middle, it's going to be about 3000 square feet. Gross square footage. So, the new building will be 3000 square feet. How is parking going to be accommodated? If you scroll up, there is parking right off from Fisher app, and it would be essentially at, you know, at the level of the street. Okay. And so, your proposing is that garage parking? Yes, it is. That's correct. And is there parking on that side of the street on Fisher? Yes, there is. There is parking, so you will be taking two spaces off of the street with the proposed garages. That's correct, and that's where the owners currently actually park. Okay. Okay. Let's see. Was there something else I was going to ask? Any proposed roof decks or anything like that? There is a proposed roof deck. So, as you can see on the top floor, which would be the Honor Occupied Unit, or Richard and Maggie, you can see it there. You can see it on that sheet. It's sort of, you see the dining table. It's sort of a page, a page south of that. How is it at least? It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a terrace. Okay. And so, is, and are these all these units of this proposed two bedroom unit handicap accessible then? They are not handicap accessible. They would be on the residential building code, but now we are making provisions on the main stairwell for, you know, aging in place as that's part of, of the, you know, the idea for this project. You know, so, place tailor is the one doing the walk here, proposed walk here? I, I am the architect and place tailor. Yeah, the drawings were submitted on the place tailor. Yes. Well, I have to say I was, in fact, just on Sunday, up on Highland Street in Roxbury, where the neighbors were very distressed about the work that place tailor did. Mr. Olic, you know, it's the building behind the one on, on what, what is that street that we were briefly talking about that E-plus building? Yeah. It's kind of in the back of it. The, the residents were just talking to me very passionately about the work that place tailor does. It's right behind 42 horse on. It's kind of like one of a better word of maroon building. And so, can you tell us about your choice of place tailor as your, your architect? Place, place tailor has, we first met place tailor when we went to an open house at a net zero building that they designed on Fort Hill. This was, oh my gosh, I don't know, seven years ago, maybe. And since then, they have designed several houses on Mission Hill and they have built a neighborhood. All of which have been positively received by the neighbors. We chose them because they do design build. And we liked the idea of having an architect that was already in communication with the construction crew. And they do such energy efficient buildings. And how contextual is this building to those in Mission Hill? Well, it's actually, I would say very, in the sense that almost everything that's been built in the last 10 years, is it slightly more modern design? There's a 14 unit apartment building about a block and a half down on Fisher. Place tailor actually designed two other problems on Fisher at Wensley. All with a very, very similar look. And we have three five six townhouses next door to us again with some of the... Just say it by everywhere. In the meantime, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? The plans are good. I think when you look at it in an overall site plan, it's a little obviously too, has done a lot. However, I think the topography is the real key here. It appears that the roof of the proposed addition is consistent with the other houses on that side on the lower. I'm specifically thinking of 141, I believe it is Fisher to the left. It feels like it fits in quite well with that. So, I don't have a problem with the proposal in terms of two units on a... Or two houses on a lot. I think it's... Just the sheer topography, it creates this opportunity low and not in conflict with the upper unit. Got it. Any other questions? Any other questions from the board? Just a reminder, what is it total on size? I believe it's... $7,000. $6,700-something. I'm not sure if it's $6,700. Can you blow that off please? No, that's a good one. $6,700 for a fee. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? The board? It's a rough point. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board, Molly Griffin from the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, our office would like to defer a judgment to the board, but there was in a butters meeting hosted by our office on June 14th, 2021, the applicants also did extensive community outreach and met with the community alliance of Mission Hill and also Mission Hill Neighborhood Housing Services and has received support from both of those organizations. I have also received eight letters of support from neighbors and at this time, have received no letters of opposition. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we have those letters as well. Okay, and Madam Chair, I have three raised hands. I'll start with Gary. Gary, you've been a muted. Can you stay tuned to even address for the record, please? I'm at 10 War Rhythmian Street in Mission Hill. I just wanted to say that as far as this project is concerned, I love the design. It's a terrific design that blends well with the neighborhood. I think it's totally appropriate for the site and also that I'm happy to keep our neighbors here and our neighborhood for longer so they'll be able to age and place and everything. So I support this project very much. Thank you. And John, you've been unmuted. Can you stay tuned to name and address for the record, please? Dr. Fowell? I'm from John. Go on, Adam. You've been unmuted. Hi, can you hear us? John, Adam, please go ahead. We are ready to move. Madam Chair, members of the board, Adam Sarba, Mission Hill resident board member of neighborhood housing services. We did have our formal vote last night strongly in support of this proposal. Mission Hill undergoes a... Thank you very much. That's what we wanted to hear. Go ahead. The next person, Ms. Ambassador. Hi, John. Go ahead. Good morning. This is John Kaporil, three Daleks Street Boston. I have been a local resident in business owner for the past 30 years. I've liked the voice of my support for Richard and Maggie and their proposed project on 23 Fisher Street. I agree with Eric on the topography. I think it does support the second building in this case. Thank you. Thank you. And I have no additional praise to you at the moment. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion. Go ahead. It was too approved with design. I ordinarily, but it's reluctant to have two buildings on the same lot. I'm just going to make a motion to approve with the FDA design. I'll second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Please, Mr. Hampton, make sure that this gets a lot of attention because, you know, we've had experience, I guess, with... With playstale that the way the feedback isn't... isn't so strong. So let's make sure that this is this project works, okay? Mr. Thank you. Calling an X-K, calling VOA 125, 6895, 13, Alexander Street. This is a change of document to a three-family dwelling. Got rehab? I resolution 10 section one, limitation of area of accessory uses, article 50 section 29, the lottery area of traditional dwelling units is sufficient. Article 50 section, 20, 29, the flurry and ratio is excessive. Article 50 section 29, the use of development spaces is insufficient. Article 50 section 29, the side yard is insufficient. Article 50 section 29, the array yard is insufficient. Article 50 section 43, the location of our street parking. and at a 50 section 43 Austrian parking design. Have a new ability. Name an address for the wrecking please. Miguel Nunchel, 13 Alexander Street, no chance the Massachusetts 0 to 1 to 5. So Mr. Menterro, tell us what you're proposing. Tell us about the size, what the current occupancy is, and what the proposed occupancy is, and the square feet each year at. OK, we are proposing to change it from one family to three family. There are lots of size. Let's speak first about the subdued street here. It is 3,000. We are at the Eats of Old House. A four-floor Old House. We are proposing to change it from one family to three family. One unit, the bottom unit, will have three floors. The basement, ground floor, and first floor. That's about 1,500 square feet. The second floor unit will have about 650 square feet. And the third floor will have about 650 square feet. OK. Can we look at what that basement looks like? Can you tell us what sheet we should go to to look at that basement? Yes, it's one floor. It will say basement, one minute. OK. Yes, this is the basement. The basement will have an internal stay away from the first unit going from the ground floor to the basement. It will also have a spiral. Stay is going down from the front of the building. And also in the rear of the basement, there is a window well. We are staying going out to the rear of the building. And what's the floor to sit like in that bedroom? A seven and a half feet. So from the floor to the sill is seven and a half feet? Yes. Now that's the ceiling line. OK. What's the floor to the bottom of the window? The floor to the bottom of the window is about two and a half feet. It calls out 27 inches. It looks like it's called out on the. OK. Mr. Robinson, how are the plans and Mr. Olic, please jump in? I think the plans are fine. It is showing it's a connected unit. It's not a separate unit in the basement. There are looks like the full-hand windows in the front. The rear does have an area well that they're providing windows for the rear bedroom. Not sure about the spiral staircase in the front. I'm assuming the BPA live a question about that. But I'm also looking at the top of the drawing, the rear, the spiral staircase there. And is that a deck? What is that? What are those windows looking out to? The windows are looking out to the spiral. It is open. However, in front of it, there is the spiral fire exit for the units on the third and on the second floor. And please can we move up to the first floor plan? We look at the basement. And where are the utilities? The utilities are in the basement. At the front of the building, the utilities are in the room in a separate room. OK. Mr. Robinson, Mr. Olic, any questions related to that? I remain perpetually frustrated by lack of elevations. Are there none shown here? There are some shown sort of a little earlier. There's some sort of section elevations where it's dashed. There you go right there. OK. So Mr. Robinson, what's my usual question in relation to the grid? Yeah. So in the rear, it does call out, you can see they're providing an area well right there in that rear section to the back windows and then the front windows as well. So they're doing the typical wells, except for in the front, they don't need to because the grid seems to drop off. I don't know if they managed that. They're at 27. Well, correct me if I'm wrong. But the way I'm reading it is it's like seven foot two from the floor to the grade. In the back, yes. In the front, what? The back is where the bedroom is. There's one in the front and the back. And am I reading it right? Is that if one exits the window, they walk against a three foot alley to get to someplace else? So there is. So there is a first page. There is a site plan that shows some parking along. So the site is, the building or the site is much bigger than this. I think it's a double lot. If you look at. Yes. You look at it. 13. So there is, there's a layout of the first floor or the ground floor plan. I think it's down one page. There you go. You just went by it. Go up one. There. So you can see the building. So I think it's like a double lot. The parking is adjacent on the right hand side. Yes, for now, but when that comes in for development, what will that mean? That's a lot. I just bring. I just bring. You. Yeah, this is great. You know, great. Mr. Robinson, one of you, I mean, it's pretty unusual to see the spiral staircase both front and back. Yeah, I don't think, I mean, I didn't see a BPA recommendation or maybe they have a review. I just don't think they're going to prove this. So, you know, I think if there's another way to manage it, maybe, but I think it's going to, if that's what's relying on, which it appears it is, I don't think it's going to actually ultimately work. And is the project promoting reaching by having that bedroom in the basement? Yes, of course. Yes, okay. Is anybody, any other questions from the board? I'm sorry. Madam Chair, it's Jeff. We didn't get a copy of these plans until after I've worked at Met. So we weren't able to make recommendation on this. And I haven't talked to the planner about this at all. So, I need to kick in to the board for their decision on it, but I'm going to 10 minutes with the Robinson on the spiral staircase. Madam Chair, Secretary here, Mr. Demiko has spoken. I'd like to put his comments in for the record. Regarding Alexandria Street, the design cannot accommodate six vehicles. Fifty percent must be eight and a half by 20. Also the maneuverability cannot work under the design. He proposed the project to be approved for three spaces in the location of the spaces to be changed to state maneuverability. Okay. So, as, thank you. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Denise DeSance from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, we would like to defer to the board. The applicant did have a meeting on a butter's meeting on November 8th, as well as meeting with DSNI. And they have community support, as well as direct support from them. Direct the butter's. Thank you. I do not have any elected officials that want to chime in, but we open it up to the public. There's some of the cities. Hearing none, I also have no additional hands. So, let's see. Given that information and given our history with basement units and dwelling in the basement may have a motion, please. Yeah, I got to admit, I mean, sometimes what we do is we simply have a proposal not to have bedrooms in the basement, but this project is too problematic. I think on multiple levels with the spiral staircases and the parking, I would just make a motion to design, to deny without prejudice and they can come back with some better answers. I will second that, Eric. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. So, that is our decision, Mr. Montero. Please hire an adequate architect. So, that next time, your plans are better reflective of occupancy. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, it's now 11.03. I'm going to call the 11 o'clock camings for Andy to furl the withdrawal. If you can give it the address first, if you want to furl the withdrawal 11 o'clock camings. Okay. 421 Saratoga Street. Mr. Secretary? Thank you for the record calling. BOA 124 2057 421 Saratoga Street. Name it and address of the record please. Good morning, once again, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Matt Echo, the Drago and Skanno with the business address of 11 p. At this time, we are seeking to withdraw the application for 421 Saratoga Street. May I have a motion? I'll make a motion for denial without prejudice. Is there all those in Traver? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals of withdrawals to the 11 o'clock camings? Only. Mr. Ford? Yes. We're doing 26 tiles per street. Thank you. The record calling BOA 127 2069 26 tile borrow street. Name it and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Mark LaCast, LaCast lost 75 Arlington Street in Boston. At this time, we're seeking to feral as we are making changes to the plan with respect to the parking arrangement. Based upon additional feedback we've received, including from the BPDA recommendation and therefore the plan should be revised and we need to seek updated refusal letter based on those changes and therefore we could defer. Motion to defer. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date please. We have the February 15th or March 8th, Mr. LaCast. Would suit you better and you still have to go back. To be safe, let's go with the March date please. Okay, we're going to do March 8th at 1230. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you. Now, there are any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 11 o'clock cases to give you the address please. Hearing none, I'll go back to the 930 on your next case. Find the BOA 127 3705, a monthly circle. This is a combined two lots of constructions, six family. Valeations article 69, 68 dough Artischsto beパ yet i кол 69 intersection height 어떻게 heterodactyl. isfirndra gets a talisman if you get it. 6969 excessive if they are article 69 69 the number of all of stories has been exceeded Article 69 69 insufficient open space Article 69 69 insufficient front yard setback 69 69 insufficient side yard setback Article 69 69 insufficient rear yard setback Article 69 69 insufficient parking And article 69 69 69 in six unit dwelling and my part is forbidden David address full the record please Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. My name is George Morancy on the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston I represent Kier and McKinney proposed developer of the site The proposal is for a new six unit apartment building with six off-street parking spaces to be located at 11 Uelsurkel in rebuild Uelsurkel is a private way with right of public access The combined lot size would be 5,822 square feet My client would purchase in the site from the current owner who also owns the abutting two family dwelling at seven-9 Uelsurkel And is therefore of course in support of this application While the zone here is one of six thousand It's a bit different from a typical one Abzone in that the site But's Nordally on its Nordally site an industrial storage yard located on the wall cut street side of the property And it's also approximately 150 feet from the Ponset Valley Parkway and about 50 feet from a local convenience sub-district The six units would all be two bedroom units the sizes would be From unit one to unit six 975 square feet 1,000 five square feet 985 square feet 865 square feet a thousand five square feet and 985 square feet With respect to the zoning a lot size here is 5,822 square feet The lot frontage that's required is 60 feet This site has frontage in lot width of 39 feet 11 inches The minimum front yard setback depth is the modal or 25 feet this setback would be approximately at the modal location of 20 feet on the Uelsurkel side There is a 10 foot side yard setback requirement On the left side of this site where there's a three foot setback to be provided That is the the turnaround area where Uelsurkel connects in the rear so that is The side yard there is actually Uelsurkel and that private way on the right side with this Hold on mr. Norensi can you tell us which is the most appropriate drive to be looking at so we can understand The impacts of the side and rear yards on the on the budding properties Certainly if I was looking at my own zoning sheet So perhaps if uh whoever's controlling the drawings scrolls up to this this this one and if the orientation Work flipped clockwise if scroll down at there's a site plan on this site I can I can do it off of the site plan there If that's zoomed in on the right side is in fact Uelsurkel So the side yard setbacks to which I'm referring art as the board is viewing these this plan to the on the on the bottom That is the left side setback and on that side you can see that is also part of Uelsurkel Which is the private way there is not in the budding dwelling on that left side setback on the right side Where there's a three foot setback? Is the current owners property at seven to nine Uelsurkel And that's a driveway area on that side of the The right side with respect to the the rear setback. This is a block through lot This runs from Uelsurkel to Uelsurkel which is a horseshoe shaped private way and the setback in the rear Because this is a block through lot that would be also a required modal The setback there is four feet six inches which is the approximate mogul on that side of Uelsurkel And because this is a one F six thousand eighteen hundred square feet per dwelling unit of usable open spaces required That's something that's really not met by Anything in this particular section of the the one-haves Zoning sub district this proposal would provide 770 i squared feet mainly because there's no roof deck being proposed And finally in terms of the building height the maximum height here is two and a half stories and 35 feet This building would be only 32 and a half feet tall, but as a three-story building There is an incurred violation for story height only That man sure I'll pause and take any questions that the board may have and so how many parking spaces are being provided Six parking spaces for the six units the parking entry would be from Uelsurkel to a garage door The parking spaces would be partially enclosed and partially exposed on the right side of the site There would be a privacy fence and bordering Landscape offering Aromac exterior of the parking spaces as the board is viewing the site plan from this angle Those parking spaces are arrayed one to six from the right to the left including an eighty-eight compatible space at the top of the site And this is an elevator building This uh I have to look at my plans mr. Robinson might have that I just want to make sure that this is um um It is it's not an elevator but it's It doesn't appear to be an elevator building. It is calling out an any a unit access point To unit one which appears to be done through a lift of some sort from the main lobby Yes, a portion of unit one is located on the ground floor that is actually a again a portion of that unit Okay, any how are the plans mr. Robinson? Uh the plans are fine. It's it's uh Yeah, it took thank you mr. Maranze for the explanation It was a little bit difficult for me to understand what was front yard side yard backyard, but um thank you I don't have any kind of questions about the plans themselves Okay, any questions from the board Um and just a comment that it seems like whether it's front yard side yard of backyard because it's a through a lot I get that but Regardless, it seems like a very very minimal setbacks a very extensive lot coverage Well Understood um the the you know the front the the setback in the front off the new circle is is fully 20 feet Um, and there is a considerable yard area to the the left you will circle it has to be understood It's a paper street So it's not it's not a private way So um the board probably doesn't have benefit of of a landscape plan As I'm looking at it, but even with that minimum setback on the left side Everything to the left of the building Is is is is is green space it's it's all trees and grass there is a you'll circle doesn't connect is my point It is a paper street only So while the site doesn't actually run Let's say an additional 25 feet to the fence of the property the rear of the properties on wall cut the fact of the matter is there is About 25 feet of setback on the left side between over 25 feet between the building and In the rear of the properties on well wall cost so it's you know not claiming that that is a full setback It's not owned the fees and in the ownership of this land But it's there. It's not a continuation of you will circle. It is in fact open space And finally on the rear side which is also on you will circle the the other leg of you will circle that four and a half foot setback is approximately The setback that we also see from the building at 214 the Ponset Valley Parkway there are only There are only two other buildings on the the rear side of this of this law on the you'll you'll circle side One at 17 and the separation distance there Mr. Moran City interject That in fact with with Mr. Olex question is that in fact you might be a paper street today But the way construction and development is going You know we we need to just be a little bit forward thinking in our review of these projects And kind of think through what the ramifications will be long term of approval of these projects So that's kind of where we're going so I we understand what you're saying we understand what current situations are But I think we need to also recognize that these buildings Will be usable and Occupyable for the next 40 50 years Long before we're gone So we do need to recognize that so it's understood but but is from a legal perspective Hang on some more answer. I I want to shift the Charter question, which is about context. I don't really on I mean I know the Ponset Valley Parkway is a pretty heavily traffic street And has a multi-unit but this is a 1F district right and you're it's a 1F 6000 yes And you're putting six units on you old circle which is not in the Ponset Valley Parkway You know, I mean that no I get so my question that has to do with context is this really kind of get a stick out like a sore thumb The the I understand the concern. I mean the building size itself Is is you know not anomalous for the area The building at the corner of this side of you all circle in the Ponset Valley Parkway 208 the Ponset Valley Parkway Is a 7 unit the apartment building it is zoned LC it is not Is not zoned 1F but that's why I was talking about the proximity of these two Zoning sub districts as they border one Now there he is. It's in or it's apples and oranges you're talking about a private way. It's a circle that's off a main main drag and I don't think you can you should be mixing the zoning expectations for a main thoroughfare as opposed to a quiet private circle Okay, so after that differently yeah Go ahead hold on mr. O'Vick let's let's just quickly get comments um uh Madam chair I have all I do have one raised hand It's the caller 617364 Madam chair the secretary here. We do have two letters of opposition Thank you Okay caller 18 can you I sent a request to unmute yourself can you still look and get poked there you go go ahead You've been alluded can you say to name and address for the marketplace It's Craig Martin He called you at the street and read them go ahead Uh, a couple of matters I'm right to I'm from the board number I'm right up the pension that This is two different Zoning districts that Yeah, the council is Inapportunity comparing it to a commercial So uh, this neighborhood though We'll leave this part to the two small Why single family Which is an insult to the neighborhood And I'll play up with matter that the two of us on your circle Because we were told by the council I've been talking to the board that the world's done whole about it I went to those two of us Um fairly recently I made with there's no knowledge of this project that I was in work Just just made and discuss it that this would be right in front of them But there's no start for me I'm Thank you for giving us a sense of what's going on Any other um, some about anybody else? No, no I'm chair. Um, this is Danielle Fonseca from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Can I speak on the community process? Yes, because we understand that um, yes, because you did conduct the community process go ahead Okay, thank you good morning Madam Chair members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the mayor's office of neighborhood services Um, at this time we will be deferring our judgment to the board But during the community process the applicants notified immediate of butters and the community meeting was hosted by our office on July 14th of 2021 There was one person in attendance at this meeting and they had concerns regarding parking density and the congestion of the area with the addition of these units Um, the applicants also connected with the local neighborhood group, which is the refill watch and an in person meeting was held on November 18th of 2021 um, many residents were fairly neutral on this project itself They just brought up concerns around developers and applicants notifying the community of a proposal in general They also the applicants took an additional step and connected with the high park neighborhood association And during their meeting, which was conducted on September 9th There were some concerns about the potential loss of trees on site in addition to the project having some dimensional and other violations Of the high park neighborhood plan. So our office has received one letter of opposition And that is from the high park neighborhood association Um, and this has also been sent to the board for review. Thank you Okay, good afternoon madam chair members of the board Jordan for you this year from councilor royals office We just want to go in record and support. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Ambassador anybody else? I don't know any other elected officials I think we'll set that chair. Thank you. Okay, so given the array of information Um, may I have a motion please I'm going to make a motion to deny without prejudice. I think there's um, I think it's a little it's an oversized project It's and um, I did I did um, is there a second? I'll second that air. I think it's I think it's also uh, two dens for the edge of the where it is on the street and I did neglect to um, call um The BPA because they have um, they have recommendations too I yes madam chair. We recommend straight to the aisle on this. It's just the the passing Too big too big for the sake. Okay, so there's a motion. There's a second all those in favor I I'm any opposed Motion carries Thank you On the last case of 930 falling B.O.A. 1269775 2034 to 2044 census street This is a rule with the provisional to this petitioner only the violation of Article 6 section 4 Other protectional conditions. Name an address for the record please You Is anybody on for 2034 2044 census fee what's rock Oh, yes, hold on. I see that name Let's Show dinger You're on can you unmute yourself? I just made you a panelist Hello. Hi, yes go ahead. Hi, good morning. Respect HM members. This is Jovinda sanny The address is 2034 244 center street festivals right? So, Miss Saini tells what you're planning on doing and what the proposal is I am not I just Board this business only From the previous owner and nothing is changing. I'm not changing anything except the Name of the owner which will be now 2040 center of things So what is the business? Except piece of place sitting and take out Okay, you'll be the person's house And so do you have experience with takeout in the city of Boston? I yes, I do have and my brother has also been working there for a long time So he's and I am not His whole stuff is the same same manager and One more family member. I'm adding besides me Which is my sister in law and only Staff changed is to one of the owner that's it what what is the name of the pizza? They're dinos pizza and subs Okay Okay Any how are the clients mr. Robinson? Uh, no questions and as the proponents had no changes. It looks like it's pretty straightforward Okay, any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam chair members of the board call our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services at this time We'd like to defer to the board's judgment Previously this Opposed I've been before the board in 2016 I believe received support due to the minimal changes Limited community process was conducted. Thank you. Thank you Yeah, the elected so we're gonna give testimony before we open it up to the public Madam chair members of the board call so the city council allows Michael clarity You did the minimal change here council to go and reckon support I don't raise hands at the moment madam chair Okay, I may I have a motion please Motion to approve for this applicant only but the usual take out language I'll second that Eric all those in favor. Hi Any opposed motion carries It is now 11 25 we're gonna take a five-minute break and just proceed with the 11 o'clock. Thank you You You You You You You You You You You You You You I'm just gonna read my opening statement for those of you who were not there who were not there at 930 So the city of Boston zoning board of appeal for January 11th is now in session This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law Including the provisions of an act extending certain COVID-19 measures Adopted during the state of emergency That was signed by governor Baker on June 16th 2021 The new law allows the board to continue its practice folding virtual hearings That it adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic until April 1st 2022 This hearing of the board is being held remotely by the web x platform and is also being live streamed As with our in-person meetings comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition The order of comments is as follows elected officials representatives of elected officials and members of the public The number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting will be limited by the chair as time constraints required I'm going to just talk very briefly about how people on the telephone can access this To make comments so please if you are like calling it by telephone Please park across staff read to raise your hands because I know Miss ambassador has talked through this with everybody else who is on Via via the web x platform suggest remember please press star three to raise your hand So go ahead mr. Fortune Thank you madam chair. I believe everybody's on I think that maybe we'll be sharing it back on Oh, okay, Sherry's here. I think she's on yet So I'm going to call the 11 o'clock hearings. I'm going to go back to deferral to withdraws a case someone missed it when they did call back about a half hour ago Is there anybody deferring withdrawing an 11 o'clock case they give you the address first that they are Okay, here we go. I'll call the first case following the OA1225452127 Lexington Street This is seeking to change your one family dwelling so two family dwelling And also to extend living space into the basement and renovate Violation tactical 53 section 9 excessive FAR Article 53 section 56 Austria-Pakki insufficient pocket may be an address for the record please Thank you madam chair members of the board attorney Jeff Drego at Drego and Tuscano Here and behalf with business address of 11b can Three here and behalf of the owner of 127 Lexington Street David Grottis and I also have David Troy Who's the architect on the call as well As was mentioned we are seeking to change the occupancy back to a two family Home from a one family that had been changed years ago and to extend living space into the basement These would be two duplex condo units inside that we're proposing This particular zoning sub district is a two F 2000 And we just to go over the layout of the plans The unit one I would have a lower level proposed in the basement It is has a full walk out in the back has eight foot sailings We're proposing an office in a media room in the basement in one bathroom It has again full walk out it also has windowsill egress that's 24 inches above the floor And there is also a separate entrance for a common utility room that's accessed in the rear from a separate door As we go up to the first floor that would house two bedrooms in one bath It would also have a rear deck with an egress staircase I just want to point out although we do have egress staircases this building is fully fully sprinklered Already as well That unit for proposing would be 900 I'm sorry 900 square feet As we go up to unit two That would be on the second floor That would have living area one bedroom one bath I would also have a spiral staircase out to the backyard that's just for convenience Not necessary because of his sprinkler as it's mentioned And then three bedrooms on the third floor of the building that actually has existing bedrooms in it now In the current layout we're not changing anything And on this building we're keeping it it is in the historic district to be go hills all the features will remain Um and that unit would be 950 square feet Just to go over the violations if I could other only two so point eight is what's required for a We're proposing 1.0 and because we're keeping the building we can't create any parking. There's none now We're not taking anything away, but we would trigger a parking violation I can pause with any questions for the board You know today I have to say is the first day in a very very very long time We've seen spiral staircases So just to put that on the record um in the meantime, how are the parents um mr. Robinson The plans are good and I can confirm that the rear elevation is fully exposed on the lower level and there is no bedrooms shown um in the basement or in the lower level Just the office and medium room No other questions. Thanks Any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? um Madam chair members of the board. We're calling on you. We're with the mayor's office and neighborhood services um at this time the mayor's office We've neglected deferred to the judgment of the board. We have some background information on the community process Uh, we heard from the liaison that conducted it that they received overwhelmingly positive feedback from the butters Um, they also received support from the Eagle Elcivic Association and our office received three letters of support. Thank you Madam chair secretary here. We do have letters of support, but we have one letter of opposition. The opposition is about talking Thank you See no raised hands in the attendees section, but are there any elected that are on that? We're gonna speak Madam chair, we just lost mr. Robinson. I don't know if he came back No way things on my side. Thank you You're welcome Just lost him after I spoke so I'm gonna see can you hear me now? I'm back. Okay. I didn't think I went anywhere, but thank you mr. Porti So we are all you have a full board. We are ready for a motion may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to a group um Uh, Jeff, do you want to sign a view I Know I say it in my phone, but I don't think it's Eric I don't think so I think it's it's very straightforward. I don't think it's needed. I have mentioned many just a motion to approve Thank you all second all those in favor Any opposed motion carries and please to the architect who we've been seeing a lot of this morning Can you look at options for spiral staircases? Because I know some people have difficulties with those spiral staircases and we just want to make make it easier on people on Residents without having those in the buildings Okay, the next case Okay, next case calling the OA1242046362 Sumner street This is to confirm. I'm going to want family dwelling to a three family dwelling and also extend living spaces to the basement You're actually a third story and rare additions and renovate Violates is article 2017-55. This is the east lost and iPod article 53 section 52 structure restriction Article 53 section 56. I'll speak back to the profession Article 53 section 9 the additional lot of areas of suppression Article 53 section 9 the Florida area racial ratio with excessive Article 53 section 9 the building has excessive stories Article 53 section 9 the Frank Goddard's insufficient Not a 53 section 9 the side yard is insufficient name and address for the record Thank you madam chair members of the board attorney Jeff Drego a Drego in Tuscana with the business actress of 11 Beacon Street Representing Stan Klebner from Odessa capital as the owner and developer and we also have Adam Glassman It was the architect on the project As was mentioned we are seeking to change the occupancy from a one family residential dwelling to a three family residential dwelling But keeping the building We're proposing to completely renovate the building and add a rare and third story addition to map Building to the directly connected to us on the right This particular zoning sub district is in a three F 2000 our a lot size is 2500 square feet Just to go over The unit layout so there's a pretty extensive drop Great change that you can see in this building. That's a that's a good picture that And so in our lower level we are proposing living space We have nine foot nine inch ceiling height a complete walk out in the rare we have 34 inch floor To seal Size or egress we have office laundry bathroom and living area that we're proposing down in the lower level And that would be connected to the first floor That would have three bedrooms and two baths with a rear deck that unit total would be 1700 and 25 square feet The second floor as we go up would house an 850 square foot two bedroom two bath with a rear deck And the third floor Would house unit three with 920 square foot two bedroom two bath with a rear deck as well As was mentioned you could see rendering in the back. We are adding Third floor addition of a keeping the contours to match the building right there to the right of us There's also a passageway in the left hand side That folks can use as a egress It's about seven feet in the length Just to go over the violations as well So additional rottier area required to be 2000 we have 1500 square feet We're slightly over in the required height three stories 35 feet We are at three stories, but we're at 36 feet six inches with our top floor dip mission We are on the left side because we're keeping the building so pre-existing we do have a left side violation at zero But there is that passageway And we're attached on the right side Front yard we're matching we're not changing the buildings so that's pre-existing we're modal But there is a five foot front in our environment so we would need to be from that from the board roof structure restriction because we are adding Another level and then we're because we're keeping the building we cannot create any parking so we do have a parking violation as well I think it's the answer So so comes to access to the first floor and lower level is it through the front door is it through the rear door? Was it correct through the front door, but you can also walk right in through the rear door by using the passageway around the back Okay, and what's the rear yard again? We have a four one foot rear setback and 40 is required so we have and we're making that all new green space Okay Mr. Robinson how about the plans Plans are good. I think to propose street Changes as mental and will be consistent with it the the rear is pushing out further In terms of obviously the addition A jay compared to the adjacent existing buildings, but I think it's Generally within the context The rear yards Okay, any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, Madam Chair members of the board Conor nomen with the mayor's office and neighborhood services at this time the mayor's office looked at deferred to the judgment of the board I will some background information on the community process on the applicant work closely with the Jeffrey's point neighborhood association Making a number of concessions and compromises At the Jeffrey's point neighborhood association we eventually voted to support the proposal citing that the height was in line with other surrounding buildings in the area as well as Shadows like that was conducted to demonstrate that I wouldn't have a negative impact on the neighborhood We also have seven letters for support as well from the voters. Thank you Madam Chair, I have no I do have support letters And I have no raised hands right now. I'm sure we have a motion Motion to approve BDDA design review Sarah second Second Ligris all those in favor The opposed motion carries good luck Thank you very much Following your next case calling the OA1246098114team print stream This a proposal amendment is to turn the completely finished basement space into legal living space for unit one and roughly 500 square feet For floor addition with deck access from the fourth floor living space the violation out of 54 section 18 Roof structure building height restrictions penthouse out of 54 section 10 the floor day ratio is excessive and out of 54 section 10 the rear yard Business official name and address for the record Sorry, I see a raised hand Greg are you here for this case Greg McCarthy have been unmuted Hi, can everybody hear me? Yes, how are you? This is Greg McCarthy for 114 print street Um Do I need to get the video okay video Okay, perfect Thank you for having me everybody Can you please speak through what's being proposed so we can get a call standing Please note that the That the BPDA has recommended against bedrooms and the basement But in the meantime talk about the rest of the link Sure, yeah, so it's a Existing three story building or three and a half story building the ground Levels actually most people What we purchased this building it was a three family with a well, it turned out to be a legal unit in the basement So we're actually proposing It's more of a garden level of the basement. It's actually full walkout in the back ended on the front Are you proposing three units or four units? So we're actually proposing to combine that Garden level unit with the first floor so we'll we three units down Okay, and tell us the sizes of the units Sure, so the first floor the first floor and garden level unit is about 1600 square feet The second floor unit is about 850 square feet And then the third floor unit we're also proposing um, so this is one of the only three story buildings of the block. It's Surrounded by mostly four story buildings Um four story buildings are on either side of it um In the current building height is 32 feet The lot of lists named on 55 We're proposing to put a Fourths Fourth story edition on top of it which would be roughly 450 square feet edition onto the floor um That should be down in the plans What would make that what would be then the size of that third unit? That would make the third unit about 1450 square feet Okay I was planning some um Robinson Can whoever has the audio on from your wife? Like they're good. I think I think they're good. I think the the fourth floor edition I think it is consistent with the street. They're actually pulling it back and creating sort of an outdoor terrace there I think that's that's fine I guess I had a question just so I can make sure I understood on the lower level There there's no sections there but so I see it peers that you kind of can get to the lower level from the street by going down a couple steps Is that is that intended as an entrance or was that it? I guess I'm a little confused if that's because you're saying it's part of the other unit But is that does that need to be a separate entrance down that that's an existing door Okay, and you're leaving it all these doors on the front are existing so we we're able to keep one for the utility um This one we're pointing on keep but keeping but you also enter unit one from the from the main entrance So it's kind of just another e-reps for unit one Okay, and then and but the rear the site I mean it's I don't have any site information But it looks like the site is fully a walk out in the rear just want to confirm that Yeah, there's an alley we have a tweet behind it behind it okay um I have no questions except for I guess maybe mr. Hampton can speak to their recommendation on the Let's make a moment any any questions from the board Okay is anybody here to speak and support our in opposition of this proposal? No, it's the board. This is John Armono from the mayor's office in neighborhood services Uh the applicant I've come in front of the north end neighbor the north end waterfront neighborhood council The north end waterfront residents association and also held in a butter's meeting on this project They receive support from both Organizations in the neighborhood and at this time we'd like to defer to judgment of the board Madam try have no raised hands at the moment Madam here secretary here. We have a couple of letters to support Hey mr. Hampton Yes, thank you madam chair Our concern is just the bedroom with the coastal flood resiliency overlay that was just put in place So we would just recommend that that would be put and taken out that's all Okay, thank you Thank you, um given that information may I have a motion, please Uh, I'll make a motion to approve Um with the proviso to remove the bedroom from the lower level um and bp-8 is on review I'll second that There's a second oh yes all those in traver hi hi any opposed motion carries good luck Well in the next case calling b o a one two four five three four nine four sixty eight Commonwealth Avenue just to remove the proviso granted to the previous petitioner owner to change the new owner The viola stock will six sections floor other conditions necessary for protection Maybe now just for the record please Oh Oh, he's on going to be one second. I'm at go ahead I just made you a panelist so you can unmute yourself. Can you hear? I'll go ahead. All right Hello, my name is Ahmed Mahmoud for 68 Commonwealth Avenue Boston So tell us what's the name of your restaurant and if you have previous experience in takeout yes, it is it's called bab iliman I have had an extensive experience in the last six years Have you been running this restaurant? I have been running this restaurant Okay, and the name of the restaurant again bab iliman Okay Okay um how was the plans um mr. Robinson? uh plans are fine appears there's no new change and and the layout To be consistent with what was there so no questions Okay um Any questions from the rest of the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good morning madam chairman. This is the board and while I go from the mayor's office and neighborhood services At this time our office would like to defer judgment to the board We did host the butter's meeting on November 22nd And the applicant also with the Kenmore Business Association and the Kenmore residence group No concerns have been raised from the community. Thank you Thank you Madam chair. I have no raised hands Madam chair members of the board Paul Solvin City Council. I'd make a clarity. I'm sorry to go on recognition support I'm trying to see a raised hand from Adam. I'm sorry. I mean Oh, Adam are you all set So you can unmute yourself. Adam are you all set? I get up and do hand chair members of the board uh adab are asking me if I'm the attorney for the applicant I was trying trying to get on a few moments ago Miss mr. Messner. Anybody else from the district councilor's office on because I don't know everybody I think you're fine. They were sending me some messages or any of the elected officials that would like to chime in I think we're good to go there. Okay Given that information may I have a motion please? Motion to approve for this applicant only with the usual takeout language second labor All those in favor Any opposed motion carries you're all set good luck Thank you. I'll give you the next two cases calling B.O.A. 124786768 nasing street Is a companion case of building code B.O.A. 124787268 nasing street This is for 68 nasing Add an exterior dome into the third floor unit and extend living space Violation is article 50 section 29 the floating area ratio is excessive and article 50 section 29 Side yard is insufficient This is for the building code Building code the violations of ninth edition seven ADCMR exterior wall seven On 5.8 open in in exterior walls the new opening less than five feet to the law behind any non-sprick little building They have an address for the record Madam chair members of the board my name is Kyle Smith of KDS law business address of 359 to newbury street in Boston back bay So mr Tell us what to be put as since you have a building code violation can you speak to that first? Yes, madam chair. So we have a pre-existing structure The proposed plans are to expand the square footage on the third floor by adding two dormers in the darkened area that you saw in the first cover page Thereby increasing the aggregate square footage approximate the top floor of about 484 square feet on the right side We have a Are you talking about the exterior walls and the openings? Yes, so on the right side of the structure as you're facing it we have a pre-existing non conformity where we have a Structure facade that is within five feet of a lot line the intent is to add a window on that dormer on that facade of the structure And since we are located too close to a lot line there are then fire code related concerns So this has been addressed with the current owner We know that it has to have certain applicable fire ratings and we're being inoperable to satisfy Fire code requirements. So the plan is to address that as part of the building code issuance So that is what is triggering that Building code violation so the question then is from what you're saying that you are Going to meet building code requirements and you do not need the relief Yes, our intent is to satisfy those requirements So may I have a motion then on the building code? motion to deny Second second second here Thank you all those in favor Any opposed motion carries so please tell us about the proposal now Sure, so I elaborated briefly on the intent to add two dormers both on the left side and right side of the structure The intent is to increase the aggregate square footage of the third floor by approximately 485 feet Thereby converting it from a one bed to a and one bath to a two bed and one bath Current existing FAR is approximately a point nine to with a maximum allowable of point nine I believe The intended FAR if the proposed purchases approved will become a one point zero zero So the darkened areas on the slide before this indicate the locations of the intended dormers and the expended square footage There'll be some kind of retooling of the interior layout of that Third floor So this is a three family and it's going to continue to be a three family correct If it's relevant to the board we did have a community meeting that was led by DNS Now just just relieve that to the mayor's office of neighborhood substances But can you tell us then what is the square foot the completed proposed completed square foot for that top unit? Yes Actually, Madame chair. I in full disclosure. I was retained the Proponent only hired an architect to get us to that current iteration of plans and not carry this through so I don't have the current existing F square footage of the top floor I only know the aggregate increase of the top floors are being approximately 484 square feet Okay, okay, and do you know if there's any occupancy in the basement? There is not currently no Okay Um, the how the plans Mr. Robinson Plans are good. I think it's it's fairly straightforward just looking to increase this the usable space in the attic in that platform Thank you. Is anybody any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madame chair members of the board This is Jason Gant from the mayor's office in neighborhood services We'd like to highlight and the butter's meeting was held on November 4th in which garrison charter housing committee And also my coals will project right where in attendance with a additional meaning to the garrison charter housing committee as well We are going to be deferring to the expertise of the board But I did want to highlight that the community process was completed. Thank you. Thank you You mic cozy would you like to weigh in? Yes Yes, this is Michael close to from project right 328 little avenue This is an owner occupy project and we support it Thank you Seems no additional breaks there's at the moment Given that information may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve Is there a second? What is it? Is that a few air? I don't think so. I think they're just very straightforward. Darmers. I think it's Okay So there's a motion the second all those in favor. Hi Any opposed motion carries you're all set but that you're all set good luck Thank you madam chair On the last case calling the OA 1 2 7 0 3 9 0 19 Harrison Street This is a change of occupancy For the two families to a three family the dormans are already built a third floor kitchen has been added Violations article 67 sex and 32 ask three five Article 67 section 8 of three family dwelling uses the bit An article 67 sex and I the usual open space They may not know so directly Madam chair members of the board. This is Kyle Smith with cadia s law business address of 359 in Newbury street in Boston back bay So is this a project where somebody's built are now coming in for forgiveness or Can you talk this through for us? Yes, madam chair. So the answer to your question is yes I actually happened to reside at the time at the Dale village We were aware of construction occurring here. I was not retained until After they tried to obtain lawful occupancy for a third floor that have been created as a individual Indivisible unit So it had been approved for a two unit structure with the second and third floor being contiguous You know in full disclosure the there was a person that was building this property They had money issues. They were then foreclosed upon by their lender their lender took over the project and then developed it themselves and then sold the project mid construction to a end third person And that caused confusion and in the end a third kitchen was added on the third floor There was not currently sprinklering in the building as is required So from my prior expertise or prior experiences I would say that this was not necessarily or it was not certainly done correctly in Current protocol But we are trying to in the end legalize this third unit that is currently existing If it is so approved it would then require the current owner to then sprinkler the building as well So they are aware of the current Physical deficiencies in the building, but yes, we are trying to legalize a unit that is currently in existence Okay, so tell us about is there any basement occupancy? There is not currently it's just all mechanical and storage for these three units and tell us about the sizes of each unit Sizes of units are madam chair The first floor unit Is I apologize madam chair. I also again don't have an archaic available to me and I don't have the Well, maybe maybe Mr. Robinson, can you help? I could try I mean appears to be Probably around a thousand square foot per floor or plus or minus maybe a little more So I would say each unit is in the 900s. They're they're they're reasonable size units Bedrooms look clear size at 11 and 10 and a half Yeah, I think it's I see where the issue is here And madam chair affirmatively the third floor which is the subject unit in question Inagurant is supposed to be approximately 950 square feet. Okay, and how are the plans mr. Robinson The plans are fine. I think the council has pointed out I obviously the hurdle of going from a two or three and some of the building code issues Which I appreciate him acknowledging and I think You know if this is to go forward we should certainly put no building code relief on it as a provider No further questions any other questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Good morning, madam chair. My name is Adrian Nochi. The mayor's office for neighborhood services At this time our office would like to defer judgments of the board however we did hold to command meeting on October 26th by this proposal And how tell us anything that happened at the community meeting and it went fine We didn't get any letters of support or opposition. So okay. Thank you Any elected officials on miss a masseter Okay Because anyone else from elected office looking to get testimony and no way it's hands out of the men Given that information may have a motion place I'll make a motion to approve With the The provider of no building code relief Thank you. Is your second? All those in favor? Any opposed motion carries so you're all set but that provides a good luck. Thank you madam chair The meeting is now adjourned until 1230 You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You The the board meeting this zoning board of a meeting meeting for um January 11th is now in session um Mr. Fortune can we proceed please My pleasure matter chair. I'm going to call the 1230 rediscussions for our rolls for the 1230 cases I think you'd have to move this to the floor please yes as John Pelligini 60 Stanley Street Thank you mr. Pelligini calling case BOA on want six 6627 60 Stanley Street name and address for the record please Sure, I'm good out to everybody attorney John Pelligini 10 forms of road and brain treat we're asking for deferral this came before the board of allowback it didn't complete the hearing the board had suggested some changes and suggested that we deferral we have we Redrew the plans without to the community and then file those plans with ISD And we're just waiting for the updated refusal letter And now we still down to eight residential units yes, okay may I have a motion please Well, I'll make a motion to defer All those favor Any opposed the date please Well, we do have some dates February but I think we'll be safe when we till March 8th It's a fortune we should have a back thing. I mean, I think we're missing it by days to be cut out But whatever future schedule. Oh, no, that's fine. We can get you in on February 15th at 1230 Thank you very much everyone have a good day. Okay, see you then There any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1230 Is 20 cent of street on That's referred to re-advertisement I I'm also seeing 55 voting asking Are they deferring? Yes, it's Okay, 55 voting on I'm getting a message from Gabriel Okay, I want to call in into the record then calling BOA 1202529 55 voting avenue name and address for the record please Gabriel can you unmute yourself? I don't see you on the Second okay, I'm sorry I have to refresh my screen okay, Gabriel you can unmute yourself Can you hear it? Yes, sorry Yes, Gabriel Bob Jenkins co-owner property 55 vote and half we would like to defer And why why deferring this is is this a second or third requests for a deferral? Uh, good. It's the second request for deferral Okay, so there's one single change being made for plans and we just need to finalize that Okay, and it's still a proposal to to change it from a two to three family Yes, it is and hopefully there's no basement unit pre-imperposed or basement living No, basement unit is one of the units being added or being changed it's a change of the main floor and the basement level which are already one that in two two units Mm-hmm, okay Okay, I suppose we'll have that conversation another day may have a motion Is there a second? Second all those in favor Uh, any opposed the date, please? Well, we can do three eight. I'm sorry Uh, I'm not saying at 1230 Perfect. See you then And uh, Madam Basel is 20 cent of street on because we do have it now that they're gonna they refuse a letter for we have to read the advertisement Um, don't see the time. Just So we go back and leave it's 12 1230 in March 8th correct That's correct And I don't see Michael Chattas of the applicant on file that seems Okay, well, I'll call the public case of the first case here calling the away 121-170-295-97 Broadway street This is a change of office office. The office is two residential units constructed new partial second floor and third floor addition The violation of article 32 section 4. This is a decod applicability article 63 section 20 the room structure restriction article 63 section 8. Affleurity and ratio is excessive and article 63 section 8. The ray goddess of friction Name and adjus for the record please Hello, uh, Madam Chair members of board. This is Mike Ross Attorney for the applicant happy new year to you all Uh, I'm also joined by Henrietta May the architect. She's on the call with me today This is a hold on hold on counselor um is Christian on Yes, Madam Chair. I am happy new year. You and the board do you too Thank you Christian Somanali Boston groundwater trust and we have both the boss of water and sewer approval and no harm letters Thank you. Thank you Okay, Miss uh, Councillor Ross. Yes, we have the letter as well Excellent. Thank you, Councillor Ross go ahead Thank you, Madam Chair. This is an existing office use Uh, or rear office use in the multi-family residential section Of bay village and and our plan is to add two residential units to floors two and three Of the existing building And so that that triggers As a result of the two additional units that triggers an FAR increase of From 1.9 to 2.7 This is a 2.0. This is a good screen right here actually, Madam Ambassador to hover on for the moment That triggers it's the FAR violation. We're adding about 4800 square feet That's in the purple you can see that's the new That new part of the building Um, it also triggers the rear yard violation. We're not Adding to the rear yard violation, but we are building within the 12 feet that compose the rear yard Setback use for that for that reason we have a variance for rear yard Um, this is in a area that a roof restrict a roof deck requires Okay, oh, oh, oh my, Councillor um please so the office is still going to be on the ground floor How many square feet is that The office is around Well, just under 11,000 square feet 11 11,000 square feet, okay, and the two residential units What are they one bedroom two bedrooms and how many square feet are they proposed? Yep, unit two is on the second floor and unit one is on the third floor They're both two bedroom units unit two is Um, on the second floor is the smaller of the two that's 2005 square feet approximately That's in two bed and then unit one takes the entire Third floor that's a larger unit that's 3,900 square feet and that's also a two bedroom And it's that unit three it's a unit one on the third floor that has the direct access to the roof Which triggers the roof restriction in this part of the uh Bay Village which requires a conditional use permit. Okay, and tell us about the roof deck how large is it and um It's all accessible to unit one how large is it and what how is it access? Yeah, um, you can go to a 104 to get a better vantage of the roof deck I have a square footage here of You're around 580 square feet um, and It is accessible directly to unit one Which is the third floor which is the you know the top floor only singular unit that would have access to it You see the gray there madam chair on the left side of your screen That's the um, that's the that's the roof deck. It's just for that portion the rest are mechanicals that are on the roof Okay, and how is that deck roof deck access? It's accessed by a stair into a hatch Uh the art the building owner Immediately went to a hatch like entry To remove any kind of um headhouse or instructions on account of neighbors, etc Okay, um, how are the plans mr. Robinson? The excuse me the plans are good. I think it's actually a very nice addition that'll fit in nicely with the existing building as well as the context on the street I really have no questions about the proposed project any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I yes, um, good afternoon Madam chair members of the board came crucioli from mayor's office neighborhood services The applicant completed the third community process and also met with the Bay Village neighborhood association There is no opposition from the abutters at this time our office respectfully differs to the word on this matter. Thank you I'm trying to have no raised hands at the moment Good afternoon madam chair members of the part this is Vanessa from counselor ed flin's office Would also like to go on record and support based on feedback from neighbors and the Bay Village neighborhood association Who indicated that not opposed to the project. Thank you I'm sorry. They indicated they will post the project I'm sorry Vanessa. What did you say opposed? I'm opposed not opposed. Okay. Cool. Thank you Is Anna on vacation or is this your new permanent post? Um Anna yes, Anna is um taking some time off at the moment. So I'm standing in place for her. Thank you um Miss ambassador anybody else And I um up yep, I just see a hand raised Joan I request it to have you on you. Okay. Go ahead. Can you say to name an address for the record please? Um and Joan Konaq in a butter at six milrose street And I just wanted to say that after a thorough process and many meetings between Mechi and the neighbors including myself That we do not oppose the project and our support of what she's doing. Thank you. Thank you I'm going to audition over his hands Madam Chair members of the board call soul. We've hosted a council that last Michael clarity calendar for revenue support Uh given that information may I have a motion please? Oh motion Joe for a BPDF design review. I'll second up It's in a um landmark district. Yeah. Oh right right Got it. I won't say anything. All those in favor. I Any opposed motion carries. You're all set good luck. Thank you very much. Take care Madam Chen I call the last case here for centric street. They are It's close to re-avitized so I'm going to make a motion for deferral and then give it day, but I'm going to call it to the record case B.O.A. 117537120 centric street. I don't believe they're on Madam Ambassador correct No, I don't see the name here. Okay, I'm going to make a motion for deferral I'll second motion. You have I'll second the motion here All those in favor. Hi. Hi any opposed? The date please. They're going to have a date of March 8th at 1230 Excellent that concludes that Michael sound is is on. He's in the attendees section. Is any attend to Oh, he must have jumped on. Okay. All right he's on Um Michael my Michael um so you've heard what that we've deferred this to March 8th at 1230 right Like a major panelist Much much Chavez He did send me a message in chat I just want to get us he might be having some connectivity issues. Okay. I just want to make sure he knows so that um We can expect to see him in March Okay Jason will you be in touch with him to confirm please Yes, I will overlay the information Madam Chair. Thank you so much Um, so the meeting is now adjourned May I just have the board members and staff stay on for about You