 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you over over over over over over over over over over over 1¶ 470th Center Street. The case was approved with the provisional to reduce the rear depth by 2 feet and 9 inches. Next we have case B815674A4 with the address of 6 slope and road because was approved. Then we have case B81587527 with the address of 287 to 289 Beach Street. Case was deferred until today to be heard. Case B81600 876 to the address of 100 west over street was approved and finally for the recommendations we have case B816005078 with the address of 41 redgate road which was approved. Thank you. May I have a motion? I may have motion to approve of the recommendations. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stammach. Yes. Mr. Pahraza. Yes. Mr. Valenzio. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lincoln. Yes. Mr. Panato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. At this point we will move on to the case of the hearing schedule from 930. We'll begin with the ground water conservation overland district hearings. First, first what we have is case B8152029 with the address of 20208 Beach Street. It's the applicant and will they represent in this process. I can raise your hand if you are. I can see a hand raised. Joanna, are you here to present for this case? Yes, ma'am. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm here. Joe Hannah Schneider from the Law Fund of Puddleway and Burns. On behalf of the property under David and Christian Tabor's, this application sees a G-Cog permit in connection with a project to update the hearing yard and patio of the single family residence at 208 Beach Street on the can home on the line with me are the Project Civil Engineer Brian Nelson of Metro West Engineering. He submitted a signed stamped no car letter on August 24th, 2023 as required by Article 32. And on May 20th, 2024, BWSC is through the letter stating that the sitement needs the requirement of G-Pod. As I said, the Civil Engineer Brian Nelson is on the line and the project managers also on the line if the board would like to hear from either one about the school for the project or the specifics of the groundwater storage and recharge system. Any questions from the board? Is Mrs. Seminoleon? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board, Christian Seminoleon, Boston, Royal Art Trust and we have both G-Cog letters from the elk. Thank you. And we did just receive a letter from the City Councilor who is on the line. They're in office just confirming whether asking about the debt and the hot tub project, whether you'll be back in front of us for that. Or is this all together? This is all together. There is no relief required on the rest of this combined. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisal that the plans be reviewed and approved by Lawson Water and Sue Commission due to his location in G-Cog. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Bergerazzo? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Pinnato? Yes. It's just the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 156 3973 with the address of 521, Royal St. Street, which is also in G-Cog hit. If the applicant and the representative is present, please join the board. Vanessa, are you here for this proposal? So, do we question on you? Yes, I am. Thank you. Good. So, we are requesting relief from Article 32 Section 4 for the Drone Water Conservation don't relay districts. The purpose of our project is calling Shell Interior and Exterior renovations. We have a mechanical electrical and fire alarm upgrades since the selective demo work. We do have a letter from the WSC of compliance data June 10, 2024, and the Boston Water Sower Stamp Plan is dated June 4th. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Mr. Somanali? Madam Chairman, was it board? Christian Somanali, Boston Grower, and trust. So, we have both the chief conglomerates from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Can I just ask for a clarification? If Somanali... Do you want your video on? No. If Somanali basically... Audio. Mentions that they have reviewed and have reviewed the letters on file. Do we need to add with the proviso or can we just say approve since he's already confirmed that he has a document needed? I agree. You only have had a proviso because the plans have already been approved by Water Sower and we've received a report. Great. So, I want to make sure that I remove that second step. Okay. Thank you. Thanks for that clarification. So, I would like to put forward a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berberaza. Yes. Mr. Calo. Yes. Mr. Haken. Yes. Mr. Panado. Mr. Panado. Did we use Mr. Panado? We did. Okay. Well, the chair votes yes and the motion is... Yes. Mr. Schatz. Mr. Schatz. Would attend the Jessica if you could uh... Should you back to the house? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to thank regular viewing schedule for 9.30 am. And we'll begin with case POA. We can ask about the photos or the withdrawals. Thank you. We would like to. If there are anyone, if anyone has any request or withdraw, or the throw from cases for the 9.30 am timeframe. We have 3.2 West Broadway, Mr. Stambridge. We have with me. So that would be 4 case POA. 159. 9860. I don't understand. Yeah, there's a 3.32 West Broadway. Would you please invite the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stambridge. Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz with that is a Marancy Business Adder. So 168A Street First floor, South Boston. We're asking for a short deferral on this. What does the say? Discrepancy with the revised set of plans that were submitted. To the plans examiner, we are in the process. A requirement of that. We'll also have to be reavered sized with the correct violations that are on that letter. And with that being said, we would like to request a short deferral. It turns the space. Works for me. But would that be with shoulder wearers if it's August 13? Would that allow the board a sufficient amount of time to re-advertise? I apologize. We would have to push that to September. The earliest being September 10. We'll take it. Thank you. OK. Would that have a motion? It's motion. But it will be available to the system. We're event. May I have a second? I can. Mr. Stembridge. Yup. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Betaparasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Canado. Yes. Hereabouts, yes, the motion carries. Thank you. Madam Chair, can I bring up on 75-7 Hill? Okay. Yes, you may. And that would be for case to be away. 155-3-5. I don't know. It's going to be over 155-3-5-8-1. Put the address at 175-7 Hill Avenue. Keep going ahead and explain, please. Madam Chair, this is Erick Jackson, architect of the project, context at 9th Act of Street, Charlestown. The client would like to request a three-month deferral while they deal with some family issues. I'm not that I don't know very much about it, but they called me and asked me if I could ask for a three-month deferral. Okay. Samantha. Madam Chair, we could do October 29th, or November 19th. Mr. Jefferson. We'll take the November 8th. Mr. B. Senes. All right. May I have a motion? Motion is the floor until this case until November 19th. No, the second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasad. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Lincoln. Yes. Mr. Parnato. Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson. Mr. Parnato. Yes. Mr. Jones. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. It's the of our no further request for a withdrawal from the 9th early hearings. We will begin with case B.O.A. 1-35-308 with the address of six Dana Avenue. Is the applicant and no other representative present? Is there any points of the board? Any raise, Ms. Jessica? No. I see no more. Because we are deferred to 16th, Dana Avenue. I remember looking at 308 Novel. Next. We know no one requested a deferral for. No. So stand up. Okay. Okay. Keep going. Okay. So move on to. For now, move on to case B.O.A. 1-5-9-8752 with the address of three O.D. Novel Street. If the applicant and what their representative is present, will they please explain to the board? Yes, Mr. Stagrich. Good morning, Madam Chairman. I'm the board of the Trenet Derrick Small of a business address of 51 Dops and Grow. We're here today seeking relief to domestic existing structure and erect a building for 10 residential units, eight parking spaces, and one retail space on the ground floor. Here, the zoning district is a three F-6000. Our lot size is 10,200 square feet. The violations are as follows building height. The requirement is 2.5 stories at 35 feet. We are proposing three stories at 41 feet. The FAR. The FAR required a fair here is 0.4. We are proposing 0.6. As again, our lot size is 10,200 square feet. We have a side of us for side of our violation at 10 feet above. We are at 10 feet on one side, and we are in the rear of our violation at 30 feet in the rear. And coming off the rear where the parking is, we have a distance of about 32 feet in the rear. We are proposing six two bedroom units at 690 square feet to 845 square feet, and four one bedroom units at a range of 405 square feet to 500 to 2 square feet. We do have a group to accessible unit on the first floor for handicap accessibility, and that unit is at 845 square feet. We are working with the Mayor's Office of Housing on this project with regard to the requirements for IDP policy, and they are suggesting that we ask for a viso that we enter into a housing agreement to comply with the IDP, and we have had them having conversations with them on that. We'll stop there at this time. I'm checking any questions that the board may have. Thank you. Questions from the board? Yes, we feel as more solved for the IDP agreement, how many units will be the contribution? We are required one, but we are talking about two or one and a proposed contribution to the housing fund. Thank you. So it's 10% so you are required one, going three, right? Yes. Two makes sense. Okay, that's great. Thank you. Those discussions are ongoing as we have to start. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Here in NAMMAM public testimony? I don't know what I can see I'm doing. Is there public testimony? Sorry, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This sounded like the deferred of the judgment of the board. Due to personnel changes, we don't have a ton of information on this application, but as mentioned from the applicant, with the 10 units proposed, they are working with the Mayor's Office of Housing on the IDP policy. That was further the board this time. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm glad that we do have a little support for this community group. The staff should be in the file as we had lengthy conversations and discussions with them as we attended like the before their meetings regarding this project. We do also have a letter of opposition from the Russian Civil Association. So after public testimony, perhaps I can probably can ask about that as well. Are there any other public testimony? Sure. Madam Chair, I see no raised hands at the moment. Okay. Yes, Mr. Small, do you want to just address that? They just mentioned that the work community was, as part of the community process. We were lengthy community process with Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. With WILE and with the City Councilor Brian Morales office, and I know there were, again, there were not public meetings. I've never heard of River Street before in that area. I don't know, River Street. Any other raised hands? Any other questions from Board? Yeah, I have a question about the parking and accessibility. I see sort of two large curb cuts and a large driveway. And for eight parking spaces that seems excessive. So can you just walk through the parking arrangement, the curb cuts? There's only one part, there's only one curb cut coming off of Noah Well Street. Okay. That is existing. The parking will go under the building and in the rear, there are eight parking spaces. Eight parking spaces for how many units again? Ten units. For ten units? That's correct. And usable open space. Can you just remind me of that versus the required useful open space? Require useful open space was when we were excited for it. But we have, we do have yard space and there is a deck. Okay. So you're compliant with usable open space. That was correct. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, that was going to be my question that right now you're only showing solar panels on a roof. But is your intention to put roof decks eventually like to come before us for a roof deck permit? No, we're not there. If the plan shows a deck off the third floor and we are planning to do solar panels on the roof of the building. Right. Because you do have two kind of penthouse access to the roof and so typically, you know, what would be sufficient for roof access for mechanical reasons. So that's why I was asking whether you're planning to do roof decks. Well, we're not planning to do. Okay. Great. I don't have further questions. I have a motion. Uh, Madame Chair, quickly we have five comments from the disabilities commission. Do we want to comment it very heavily on this? Uh, so Mr. Lee, do you have any comments? Reminds me of them? Yes, we do have those and I know because of the time we talked with folks regarding that. With regards to the disabilities commission's comments and because the area is smoked, we do have again. We have the group to 88 compliant unit on the first floor with regards to that. We are proposing no elevators at this time. But when the final construction drawings are submitted to ISD, the architect will comply. We will comply with all of the requested us. We will be interested by the disability commission. Thank you. Thank you. Would that may have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with, um, with some provisos. One being that the applicant, um, comes to an agreement with MOH, which regards to some of the affordable units potentially on the property. The second proviso is to work with the Boston Planet Department on a couple of items that I'm going to know. One is the parking layout to work on the site planning of it in regards to the amount of parking space and relation to open space. The second being the curb cut in terms of its dimensions. We typically like to see 10 feet. The third is to address all of the accessibility issues as it comes to accessible parking and short as route to the building. The third is to look at the overall massing of the project and relationship to its context. And lastly is to ensure that the penthouse, um, has kind of a slope so it doesn't completely protrude out to the public way in terms of its ceiling. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Stop second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Peter Brasa. Yes. Mr. Collins. There is Mr. Collins. It's just muted. Oh. Can you unmute yourself, Mr. Collins? Sorry about that. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Miss Pannato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Gordon. Good day. Next, we have case B.O.A. 158-462. But the address of 31 Wharton Street, 50 applicants, and to other representatives who please apply the case report. Thank you. Hi. Can you unmute yourself? Hi. This is Cynthia Edwards of 31 Wharton Street. I also have my architect on the line Mark Schreiver. I'm not sure he was able to raise his hand. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the meeting as well. I think he's on the line. Hopefully can explain a little more of the architectural fans. Do you want to proceed until he joins us? I'm glad he was on the line. I was checking if he can. He's also here with Mark. Here we go. He's here. This is Mark Skriver, 370 Goss Lane, Lancaster Maths, License Architect, the State of Massachusetts. Yes, Cynthia is correct. This property did have damage to the roof and or a fire. So the roof is completely compromised. There is an existing stair up to the attic. At some point in time, the attic was a livable area with a window. What we're proposing is, yes, you're on the right page. So those are the existing plans right there showing the dotted lines of the stair going up to the attic. What we're proposing is to stack a stair over top of the existing stair up to the third floor, as far as efficiency of space, structure, and so forth. Along with that new stair, we proposed to add a dormer on the side street to allow headroom. Yes, so there we are. So you can see kind of the new stair and the dormer replicates that position going up to the attic area, the third floor. So this building is a first floor unit, which is the first unit. Then we have a second slash third floor unit. So there's two units in the building. And what we're proposing is the dormer on Morton Street. Let's see, no, it's the side street. So we have a dormer where the stair is, and then on the opposite side of the roof, we're putting in an equal sized dormer to allow windows in the bedroom, as well as windows into the bathroom. So now you can see the side elevation. Basically this is the side yard elevation at the top right of the plan, which comprises a bedroom window and a bathroom window, and gets us adequate head height to meet code. The next sheet shows both the building section at the dormer, as well as the street side dormer, for the stair coming up through to the second floor. We're keeping the existing bridge height, and we're keeping the existing gable end facing Morton Street, so that it doesn't totally disrupt the historic significance of the house. The dormers are shown on the first sheet, which is the perspective view, so you can see the before and after, as to how the building is affected. But like I said, the main roof is going to remain, for rich remains, and we're simply adding the dormer on both sides. That's basically the gist of what we're trying to accomplish, both in repairing the roof, and while that repair is being done, expanding to create proper, a proper code with stair and proper code head height to get into the space. Thank you. Questions from the board? I'm going to have a couple of testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones, and I'm one of the community engaged with the Federalist, for the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, my office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. A community process was conducted for 31 Old Morton Street, within a butters meeting on April 11th. That was likely attended, and no negative comments were presented. We did have one community member's speaking support of the proposal, where they said that they were happy to see the home go to people who were taking care of it after the fire. The applicants are encouraged to meet with the lower mill civic association, and have their meeting on May 21st. They met with the board of the association, and they voted in non-opposition. Again, at this time, the Mayor's Office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have no waste hands at the moment. Thank you. And I missedpoke earlier, the River Street Association letter that I spoke of was in reference to this project. Any other questions from the board? Okay, with that, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to prove with PPTA design review. May I have a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Berberaza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Eak? Yes. Mr. Pannato? Yes. Mr. Berberaza? Yes, the motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you again. Next case has been deferred, so we move on to case theory. 156-6991, with the address of 12 to 18th-story or avenue. The applicant and or their representative's president, with their points and funds, in case the board. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I turn to John Pujee on behalf of the proposal, the 12 to 18th-story or avenue. Just quickly, this zoning is $2,000,000,000, this lock size is $10,870 square feet. The proposal is to a raise and existing single-family drawing on the project site and build a new four-story, four-town house building with the two-crodlerage parking at grade 3 unit. The unit mix is each will be three-bed, three-and-a-half baths, and there's approximately 1,714 square feet. And we regard to the parking, the off-be parking spaces were an element that the mud is wanted, but were opposed to surface parking. We found the parking being internal of the building, both satisfied the mud as well as preserved open space. To that, we also had the support of the mud is the support of the Jones Health Civic Association. There's a VPA recommendation kind of focused on the height. The height of this building came in as a result of trying to off-the parking internal to the building and again to preserve open space. We are providing over 1,375 square feet per unit of open space. And then there was another was respect to a side yard violation. That violation has been corrected and we would take a provisor. I don't make the plans that caught up with the presentation before you guys this morning. But the violation was four feet on one side, so that has been brought to be zoning, applying the 10 feet. So we have a 10 feet into 12 feet on the side yards. We had gone to a lengthy community process and we had provided let us the support. And I believe that there will be a butters and elected speaking in favor of this proposal this morning. I'm joined this morning by James Christopher 686 architects who can answer any questions the board they have. Thank you for that. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, my public. Just the money. Madam chairman and members of the board for the bracket. My name. I'm the chairman and we have been worried. Mr. Member, you're going in and out. You're actually frozen. So we might want to move on and Mr. Member, he can resolve his issue. I see council members in his office. All in good morning. Thank you chair and thank you members of the board. My for the record. My name is Kevin of Sullivan and from council at large. Eric Murphy's office. Eric council Murphy does want to go on the record in support of this project as presented with the packing. So thank you very much for your time and your consideration. And again, council Murphy in support of this project. Thank you. Hello, Madam chair members of the board. Liam remiss from council. Fitzgerald's office. I also like to go on record support. I'll do to the on say on say parking which the community and local civic association supported for the project. We also think it's important to get this part of bill to help leave you don't going housing. Thank you. Any other raised hands? Okay, Mr. Member, let's give it another try. That's my apologies. I'm not sure what happened with my wife. I'm Adam chairman and members of the board for the record. My name is Joe Remembrary. I am the committee at the mid-dirtchester community in Dayton's best list for the office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of when a boat is meeting for service taken on April 8th. And a civic meeting on May 8th. The boat is did not voice any opposition. There were a few concerns raised regarding parking co-cuts. They also mentioned the movement of landmarks and trees which were addressed at that time. They then went before the civic who did approve the project. Thank you for your time and the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We'd like to defer just the board understand. Thank you. Just kind of the other raised hands. Yes, madam chair. Oh, my god. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Oh, my god. Hey, hello. Hello, ladies. Yes. Can you please proceed? So apologies. My name is Matt Garland. I live at 26 Peverall Street. So I'm very close to this project. And I just wanted to voice my support for it. They have engaged in Jones Hill community to get our input on it. Especially when it came to curb cuts, parking, the exterior view of the building as well. And I think it's much needed in the area and very well thought out. And great use of the space. Thank you. Okay. Any other reasons? There's one large. Thanks. Thank you for not so many. Thank you for time. I live at 30. I have a new one with the wrecked butter to this project. And I too am. Dutling into voice my support for the project. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the Lord? There's one more. And Ray Sparron. That was Councillor Rufan's office. Okay. Thank you. The man who drove it. Yes, Mr. Hakein. One question just for Attorney Paul Gini. So you're saying that all the relief is still requested, except for the side yard insufficient at this point time. Right. So the side yard will go away. Mr. Hakein. Okay. Thank you. You're on a big importance. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, man. I have a motion. Madam Chair. I'm going to put forth a motion. I in terms of the typology that exists in the neighborhood. I think the diversity of townhouses would actually compliment it. There's a large kind of apartment block building right in front of it. There's a couple of triple-deckers, cable house roof. For these reasons, I'm going to put forward a motion of approval with the proposal that it gets planning department design review. And that there's no relief for a side yard setback. Is there a second? A second. Mr. Stonebridge. Mr. Stonebridge, are you on mute? I'm on mute. On your moral. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Bonesia. Yes. Mr. Bonesia, Prada. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Hakein. Yes. Mr. Knotto. Yes. Mr. Scheroy. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everyone. The next is the view. Next we have case of viewing. One six zero. One five nine three. The address of 26 note of dawn street. This is a article E case. If the applicant enter with their representative present, will they please communicate through the board? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Quilty Miller, and Hanley, 28 State Street in Boston here. Representing the element LLC with me is Taba Moses, who is the principal of the LLC. Also with me is Will Schalfont, who is project architect from KDA, architects. And if I can ask Madam Ambassador, if you could elevate Will Schalfont as a panelist for part of this presentation. And I will kick it off and then hand it to Will to quickly go through the project design and plans. So the presentation you have in the case before you, 26 note or dawn street is in the Roxbury neighborhood district in the MFR sub district, and just outside of Egelsen Square. And if you turn to the next page, Madam Ambassador, I'll show you the site context. So there are four parcels adjacent and together here that amount to almost 12,000 square feet of land. There's an existing distress, nonhistoric, and vacant single family that would be removed. And the rest of the site, as you can see, is impervious on improved surface areas with no street trees and a deficient public realm. It's a mid-block condition on Notre Dame street. And you can see in these photographs, sort of the immediate area. Next slide, just to show. The consistency with the context of the area. Again, within the MFR zone and the surrounding sections, just away from Columbus Avenue, the intersection of Columbus and Washington Street. And you will see both on Columbus, Washington Street, and lower down on Notre Dame street as well. And the context for multi-family residential in a scale similar to what is being proposed here, both in terms of height, setbacks, and obviously use. Next slide, please. So just put this into perspective within the walk-shet. And this is supportive of the variants we need for parking. We are within a very short walk of both the Jackson Square train station and the Charleston-Beruk and along the many bus lines of the MBTA and also within locking distance of Eglson Square, the YMCA, and the like, and those amenities. So what is being proposed next slide, Madam Ambassador? I'll tell you about the zoning. What is being proposed here is a five-story building of 26 units of home ownership, much needed home ownership in a time where in the current market, it's very difficult to deliver that. So we're excited to bring this to the much needed housing crisis that we're experiencing. 26 units of home ownership, the majority of which are two bedrooms. We also have three bedroom units as well. You'll see four of these units are going to be affordable. And one of the four is also a three-bedroom unit, which is north of 1300 square feet, again, to address the needs for affordability. So what has happened here, if you go to the next slide, we have worked extensively through the BPDA process. As Mr. Stemberg indicated, we were approved by the BPDA board under small project review in November or last year. And part of that obviously was not just the building and the use and the affordability, but also the really detailed site planning. And I showed you earlier, we have a deficient, inaccessible public ground and sidewalk. So we have a lot of pervious surfaces that don't contribute or improve upon the existing conditions, both on the site and the neighborhood. And so we have improved them through this project, and the relief that is required is justified by the uniqueness of the site and the housing crisis, the ability to deliver this affordability, and also consistent with the context in the area. So specifically, we need relief for the minimum lot area. Again, it's in a multi-family residential, which is required at 3000 square feet per unit. We obviously have 26 units, a lot with, which we require relief from, as well as the EFAR, is required at one and we're just under 2.4 at 2.38. And then a series of setbacks at the front left and right side and the rear, which are justified by the combination of these three vacant parcels, along with the removal of the site, and the work that we're doing around it to site within the content. Next and consistency for the alignment of other buildings. We do meet the open space requirement, and I think you'll see in the plans that we are creating both an improved open space accommodation, both on our site, as well as in the public where I would improve connectivity and new street trees. The parking, we need relief for insufficient parking, and we have 14 spaces that are proposed that too was extensively processed through the BPDA, Article 80 process, and recommended for approval. We also have bike storage accommodation in addition to that. And the final relief that we have required is for the building height, which you'll see in the plans to follow. We are at five stories in the zone that requires 35 feet. I'm sorry, four stories and 45 feet in height. So to comply with the spirit of that, you'll see this, we are four stories along Notre Dame. We set back to a fifth story element, and it's been studied and skilped in a way that comports with the spirit of that requirement, but also the context of the area and the need for housing, especially home ownership. That's the zoning in the site. I'd like to hand it off to little Shalfon to take you through the plans quickly. Well. All right, maybe not. So I'll do it rhythmically. You're looking at the parking, the ground floor, parking plan, again, 14 spaces. You'll see the lobby and entrants to the right, and on the far left, the complete streets compliance with new street trees and the like. Next slide shows you the, I talked about the open space, both in terms of our site, but also the public realm. And you remember the context and the existing conditions. No street trees today. We're including full canopy street trees, as well as it's new landscaping zone and firsting zone, along Notre Dame Street to improve and integrate at the mid block condition. Next slide shows you that proposal a little closer up. Again, the front of Notre Dame Street, you'll see the ample sidewalk widths, the full accessibility for furnishing and the street trees that are provided. Next slide shows you some of the contextual materials and move boards that will thrive this. And again, this is part of the article, A.D. Design Review Process. Next slide is the floor plants. And again, there are 16 two bedroom units. We're talking about 26 units again. Again, majority of, they're all full sized, not compact, home ownership. We do have three bedrooms. And for the affordable component, we have four units. One one bedroom, two two bedrooms, and one three bedroom. That again is north of 1300 square feet. It's good for family accommodation. Next slide shows you the floor plants as you go up, as well as in the blue, in the green code, those affordable units that I had mentioned. And the rooftop plan in the next slide. That you'll see. And following that, we have a PB component that we're exploring on the roof. And on the next slide, you're to see how this all comes in context with respect to the elevation. So as I indicated, for the height, we have to the ultimate roof. To the roof, we have a 51 foot in a 45 foot zone. And again, with a parapet and a further build-in section that then drops down to a fourth level that is actually less than the zoning requirement. It's about 41 feet. So that's how it presents itself along Notre Dame. And we continue that condition on its sides. And if you look at the next page, you'll see the rear elevation. And the perspectives within context is important for us to, as part of the BPDA process, to study not just this site, but how this comports with Notre Dame and the surrounding area. So you'll see on A11, which is the next slide at the leave, how that comes in looking from the north and the upper right, and then the view from the south. And then we have an alley that is another condition that runs in the back of the site, which you can see in that section through on the bottom. And some renderings of how this, in the next slide, some renderings of how this beautifies and proves the condition of the site and the neighborhood at this mid-block condition. This is looking down Notre Dame Street, obviously, in the right. You can see our building with the new sidewalk improvements and improved landscaping in open space. And aerial view is the next slide to show you this component of how this fits in. And again, you'll see to the rear of the site the surrounding area, how the height, scale, and scope of this is in context with the immediate neighborhood. And the final slide is our rendering looking at the building across from Notre Dame Street. And with that, I will say thank you and hand it back to you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Eric Nunn, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, cornering with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office are deferred to the judgment of this board. As you heard from the Outcomes Representation, this went through a BPA-led community process involving a public meeting and then board approval in November of 2023. During that time period, there were some of the butters who had some concerns regarding height and density. The applicant meant several times, I understand, with the Eglison Square Neighborhood Association, as well as the Garrison Traudder Neighborhood Association, the Eglison Square Neighborhood Association reached out to our office and asked that the BPA consider a design review to mitigate impact of ground level parking. With that information, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. We have a raise hand. Sustling from Planning Art. Okay, Scott, are you going to speak on this? You're going to meet yourselves. Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Scott Greenwald, I'm a project manager at the Planning Department. This project filed its small project review application on July 31, 2023, and successfully completed the Article A and E review process. This process included a public meeting held on August 21, 2023. The BPA board approved the project on November 16, 2023. Thank you. Minor? Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madam Chair, members of the board, this is Minor Pariser, percent in the carbon pursuit. We'll let you go and record on the store support of the project. Thanks. Michael? Yes. I'm a neighbor of a 116 school street owner and Egelsen Square, and I would like to voice my support of this project for lack of inventory in the city right now. Okay, and what's your name? Michael Dorian? Thank you. Okay. And I call five user. You look at your testimony here. Let's see here. Hi, look, I was actually, this is Todd Moses. I'm part of the actual team. I was supposed to go up it to the other side. No problem. Okay. We have no one to lose hands. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Very mad. Madame Motion? I'm motion to move through. Is there a second? Okay. Mr. Steinbridge? Yes. Mr. Vancea? Yes. Mr. Brasa? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Panna? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Next we have a new, a new, 159, 30, 08, with the address of 194 K Street. If the applicant's in, or the representative's president, then please respond. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, attorney Nick Sizzoulin, McDermott, Crowley Miller, and Hanley in Boston. With me today is a not-beck not-de-golf from Derek Rubinoff Architects, who's the architect, and James Avery, who's the owner of the third floor unit, which this proposed reef deck is being, it would be added to. Next slide please. This is just an image of the building today, with the team members that I just read into the record. James Avery is the owner of the top floor unit at 194 K Street. It's an existing three-unit condo building at the corner of K Street, and East Third Street itself Boston. He lives in the unit with his girlfriend. They purchased this unit in June of 2021 about a little over three years ago. You can see here the building is pretty new. It was constructed in 2019. It actually previously received zoning relief for the overall project from this board in April of 2017. That zoning decision for the original building by the developer of the building does mention the proposed reef deck, but it was never actually constructed by the original developer. Next slide please. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. This is just a roof deck plan and elevation section. A lot of information on here, but what Mr. Avery is proposing is for permission to construct a new private roof deck or his unit for the exclusive use on this deed in rooftop condo area. This is home ownership building. Access to the roof deck you can see on the left is via a proposed new head house to replace what's there now, which is an existing roof bulkhead hatch just to get up there for maintenance purposes. There's no change to the building footprint. The building will remain a three-family glowing and the roof deck is about 329 square feet in size. It's set back eight feet, five inches from the front of the building, as you can see on the left hand side. As a result, a new roof deck will really not be visible from the street. It will allow him to introduce more usable amenity and outdoor space specific to his unit. This building has little to no open space. There's no rear desk on it from the original building constructed a few years ago. This would add open space to his unit at about just under 330 square feet at 329 square feet. In the proposed new head house, you can see on the left side and you can also see in the rendering. I'm sorry, the elevation on the upper right hand side. It's as small as possible. It's only 72 square feet in size and it's located at the rear and left of the site in a way that it's not visible from the street. Next slide, please. This is just a neighborhood context. You can see the building with the roof deck in red outline for the approximate location and size on the building and the proposed head house in yellow. I think importantly, the board will note that it's consistent with many similar uses that numerous other residential buildings located on K Street on both sides of East Third. You can see a few directly across the street from this proposed deck. You can see some across East Third as well. This deck is importantly also set back quite a bit more than these existing decks in as much smaller. Again, you can see roughly a dozen or so directly across the street and on the same side of the street. Next slide. Zoning co-refuse a letter. I'm happy to go through this in more detail. I'm out of chair of their questions. But again, the head house is as small as functionally possible. That only approximately 72 square feet. There's no material impact. I'll demonstrate to you due to its location. So we tried to have it required a minimum relief necessary for the zoning. We do need zoning relief. I will note also that three of these four area ratio rear yard setback and side yard setback are all existing non-conformities from the original building construction. And then we were cited for roof structure restrictions. Due to the access that is a conditionally used apartment. And we were cited for excessive height. We're a little confused about that. We thought it may have been an error. The roof deck is less than one foot above the roof. And the head house is not technically habitable. Have you seen that? That is less than 330 square feet. So we were we're not sure why we were cited for height, but we were. So I'm happy to go into more detail on this. If the war has any questions in the last slide is just the zoning chart. Mademond Basker if you could again. This just details what I mentioned three of the five are non-conformities. The roof structure restrictions is due to the head house. The side yard setback is an existing non-conformity. The head house is tucked as far over and as far back as possible. And that is why the relief is required. And I will next slide. I think it's just the final slide. Mademond Basker shows you again the roof deck. There are any questions. And I would just end by saying again it's private to this unit. We would suggest it's appropriate to the premises not detrimental to the character of the neighborhood because there are others in the neighborhood. And we did our best to limit any visual impacts as it was. Happy to pause there, Madam Chair. Answer any questions that you may have. And thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Yeah. Any non-nath public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Ziggie Johnson with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This petitioner has completed the ONS community process. Our office host and a butters meeting on May 23rd, which was lightly attended. Our office has received one comment in support and one comment in office. The position, the gate of the specific group in this area is in opposition to this proposal as they're standing policy to oppose any new roof decks within their catchment area. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Good morning, Madam Chair. Sorry. Yeah. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Laura Toladano from Consulate of Flint. This is at this time Consulate will wait to go on record in opposition based on feedback from neighbors and a butters during the community process regarding the construction of another deck in the residential neighborhood. Neighbors continue to highlight the negative impact with the combination of many roof decks constructed over the last couple of decades. And the changing community that has become an attraction for young people on the weekends to continue to leave out their college days. With parties like all hours, trash removal issues coming from roof decks. Customers and continues to oppose this type of projects due to the negative impact on quality of life for neighbors, our seniors, person with disabilities and young families. Thank you. Thank you. Tell me. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Hi, my name is Tom MacGazis. I live at 564 East 3rd Street. And I direct the butter by wave of my backyard of 194 K Street being 13 feet from my house. In South Boston, residential units are too close to each other to accommodate roof decks. We all move there to anticipate any inner city traffic and pedestrian noise. But roof decks are an unnecessary intrusion into one's private space. They might have seemed like a good idea in the past, but improvement to result in sleepless nights, working people. Please, enough is enough. Looking at the plans, you know, they say the view from the street isn't bad. They don't lose it back towards my property. So please help me out. Thank you. And have no additional waste hands at the moment. Thank you. Any other questions from your board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'll go for a motion of approval. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Eastonbridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Is Peter Brause. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Haken. Yes. Mr. Panado. Yes. Mr. Bument. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. The motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the board. The next case we've been deferred. So move on to case B.O.A. 16.0, 099, 47. With the address of 223, Newbury Street. The applicant, the applicant, or their represent. I can just send bridge. Good morning Madam Chair and members of the board. Attorney John Bill Jeanie on behalf of this proposal by Nicole I LLC. This is located at 223 Newbury Street, the zoning in this sub district is B365. This lot sizes 2500 and 76 square feet. The application for this proposal is to change the use of the first floor of 223 Newbury Street. The current use is retail and that will be changed to a restaurant with small takeout. There will be minor modifications to the building, we'll be carrying out to accommodate this change. The restaurant proposed to occupy the first floor will be KT. It's a Chinese chain, a train shop. KT is an experience of reputable chain with over 30, 400 locations worldwide. This past December the company opened its first US store in New York City. It's now looking up more stores, including this location in Newbury Street. The hours will be from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. It's menus will focus on serving various styles of tea such as fruit tea, mil tea, bubble tea, and no alcohol be served at this establishment. As I stated the changes to the building to implement this change of use will be internal. As a construction of a kitchen space and installation and necessary equipment, there will also be additional new signs to the building to the area that being the only exterior change. We have been cited for just one violation, which is a conditional use violation, believe it or not. Restaurant will take out as a conditional use on Newbury Street. We had very successful butters meeting as well as received support from the neighborhood association in the back day. Happy to answer any questions for you all. Thank you. Questions from the board? Here in Nany, I public. I want to know. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ziggy Johnson, the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. This applicant has completed the OIS community process. Our office posted on a butters meeting on the 11th of June, which was lightly attended. The neighborhood association of back bays and non-opposition to this proposal. Our office received one letter of opposition from a nearby business owner without background. We defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. I have no raised hands at the moment. Was it true if anyone else? Sorry, I hand just coughed up, Ellen. Hello, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Kevin O'Sullivan and for the record, I am from Councillor Outlarge, Erin Murphy's office. We wanted to go on the record in support of this project. Thank you very much and thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. And I have no additional raised hands at the moment. With that, now I have a motion. The motion to approve. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stamperich. Yes. Mr. Lanzia. Yes. Mr. Prada Prada. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. E. Yes. And I. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Next, we have case B.O.A.159897A with the address of 32 Dwight Street. It's the applicant and their representative for their plea, which by the case will be brought. Yes. Good morning, John Moran, L. Pine Advisory Services with the mailing address of 130, B. We chose the three-way road, Orleans, Mass, Madam Chair and members of the board. We seek zoning relief, two variances and one conditional use permit. If we could focus on the site plan before you, it shows the proposed roof deck, which in fact is set back 15 feet, 0.3 feet from the front of the building and 8.1 feet from the rear wall of the building. This roof is unique in the sense that the roof plane does not extend to the rear of front walls and therefore is cited for a dimensional setback violation. The proposed roof deck accesses by hatch and it is for the exclusive use of the U.M. Two, if we could scroll down to A201, which is the elevation, right here, we passed it. This is the front in rear elevation. The rear to the right shows the two proposed rear decks, which I can't believe it, and project six feet out into the rear yard and conform to all dimensional setbacks. The roof deck is shown and the two proposed condenses, which are two feet, are shown in the right section of the elevation. The two condenses are screened by the roof deck and are joining chimney and do not alter the profile of the roof or the street scape if we could scroll down to A301. But this shows the profile and if we could focus on the roof. It shows that the roof itself does not extend to the front or rear walls of the building. In terms of the setback requirements, the requirement is a five foot setback from the front in rear roof, but the roof does not extend to the front and rear walls of the building. I would suggest that it meets the intent of the setback and relief should be granted. The, again, the proposed condenses are screened and set back at least seven feet from the rear wall and do not alter the profile of the roof or the street scape. The proposed rear decks conform to the usual requirements of six feet and can't be deleted. We had a very rigorous community process. On file is the non-opposition letter of the eight streets civic association. What did there is, the comment that the developer applicant was very responsive to community concerns. Also on file is a letter from a director about complimenting the project and the ability and efforts of reaching out to the about us. It would suggest that this is a common approved project variances and it will enhance the living space and environment of the two unit owners for that I request that the zoning would be granted. Thank you, Mr. Mike. Any questions from the board? Gary Nunn-Math, Public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Eva Jones and I'm one of the community gate journalists for the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. At this time, my alms would like to defer to the judgment of the board. A community process was conducted for 32 joint street with no butters being held on by 28 that had more than six constituents in attendance and no negative comments representing. We did have some questions regarding choir escapes that were all adequately answered by the applicant. The applicants were encouraged to meet with the eight streets neighborhood association and they voted as well, provided a letter and an opposition. Again, at this time, the mayor's office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the board for your time. Thank you. I can't be a guide. Don't see any great things at the moment. Thank you. The bad man have motion. Make a motion to approve with the provisor that the applicant goes through landmarks commission as well. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Parrazo? Yes. Mr. Colossus? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Panato? Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Next we have case B.O.A. 159-956-0 with the address of 728 Park Street. If the applicant can't stand where they represent this present, will they please explain to the board? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. My name is Timothy Burke. I'm the architect for the project. I have a business address of 142 Berkeley Street in Boston. Thank you for this opportunity to present this project. I'm a 728 Park Street belongs to the Union Club and they're looking to make use of an unimproved roof at the moment. In the plan you see a red line around the proposed roof deck area that we would like to build on this lower part of this side of the house. The other side is much taller. This shows the floor plan of the top floor where we're creating an accessible entrance for someone in a wheelchair to be able to use the deck as well as some new toilets. And the next drawing is the actual roof deck. It's around 1200 square feet and would be set back. We would be going through the approval process with the Beacon Hill Architectural Commission. Next if we receive the zoning approval today. There is a violation for FAR. Revolves around an extension of a stairway to provide a second means of egress. This is an elevation from Park Street, the view from Boston Common. The proposed deck is on the right hand side. As you can see on the lower part of the building. So it's set back to the chimney line and has a minimal visibility. The deck will be a great feature for the club. We could improve it for the space. And we are seeking your approval. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. I know questions from the board. Hearing none, can I vote just a minute? Madam Chair, members of the board. The answer with the Office of Neighborhood Services. Our office posted on a butters meeting on June 10th at which no concerns were raised. Our office received no additional outreach regarding this proposal. There's no active civic group that claims this area. So that we call that the conclusion of the community process. With that background, we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. There's a members of the board. Laura here from Constellin's office. I will read his letter of support. Dear members of the Sony board of appeal, I'm writing the support of the project at Union Club located at 78 parts street. The project will add our coal, comply and roof deck and fan house to the Union Club. Renovated 6 floor to create motion asses with a new lift. Renovated system spaces and extend existing rear stairway to the roof in order to provide a second means of egress to the proposed roof deck. The project has gone through a good community process and received no opposition for any waters and have received positive reviews from the Beacon Hill Architecture Commission. The project will expand dining and social gatherings for the Union Club. And add up, have a dose and jobs to staff. I ask that the proponent were closely with neighbors during the construction phase and address any quality of my issues on me and Rice. I hope that the board will grant us variance. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at that friend at Boston Dagoff or at 617-65-3203. Thank you guys. Thank you. And Ben Chary, we have no additional vacancies at the moment. Without any available motion. I'm Sheremy Kamosen to propose approval with the plans to be submitted with Boston Dan Markamation for review. Parazza, second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Parazza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Panaro. Yes. Mr. Valencia, yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. I'm going back to 16. We're going to ask for a case B.O.A. 135-1-08. The address of 16, I have in it is the applicant and or their representative. The three representative case. I have a question. I have a question. How can you raise your hand with your own for this proposal? Luis, we're two. Don't say any way, Sans. Or Victoria Hartford. That's the way. Mary's just listening. Okay. I don't think he's on it anymore. Okay. We have a motion. I think for all makes sense. But you have a motion. More than to the front of this case. Now a second. Okay. Mr. Stanley. Yes. Mr. Goins. Yes. Mr. Parazza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Pino. Yes. Is it a motion? Yes. The motion carries. And we'll have a, I guess, a three-minute break until 11. Let's make that a problem. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I meant you're not saying any other words. Thank you. Thank you and thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Pushing gears. Mr... Lantia? This page, please Can the lord handle the bureaucratans now? Yes? His excesses is not even recived. So what does he say? This guy says taken. President. Is Panato? President. Mr. Relencia? President. Okay. Here is Mr. Snibbridge. Yes, Madam Chair. Starting with the hearings, we're scheduled for 11 a.m. We'll ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or deferrals from this time, correct? Yes. We'll see a couple of hands. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mary Kay Campbell with a lot from Draco and to Scott out of 11. We can treat. I'm here requesting a deferral on behalf of our clients project at 20 Hankley Street. And a deferral for this project due to administrative reasons. Under the AISI submitted the updated plans for this project to be reviewed. There is some misunderstanding about what exactly was changing. Though I was asked to request a deferral so the plans examiner can have more time to review. Okay. Next. So with that, the deferral being asked will chase BOA 160. 3160 for 20 Hankley Street. Correct. Is there anything else you need to respond? Oh, no. That was it. Just an administrative deferral. Okay. Samantha next date. Madam Chair, the next date that we could give this is September 10th. Okay. May I have a motion? Motion to it for the recipient. May I have a second? Second? Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Wants, yes? Yes. Mr. Razzel? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? Yes. Mr. Panano? Yes. Errol Chias, the motion carries. Okay. Thank you. Well, I ask again if you're any of your customers or your job or the deferrals from this time. I see a raised hand. For the came who's muted? I tried to raise my hand for some reason. I'd like to withdraw 22 monument abs. So I'll ask case on at 11 a.m. Without a prejudice. My hand won't raise some reason. Okay. Which? I'm sorry. 222. 22 monument square. It's the last case. As 11 o'clock, I believe. I don't believe. There was no 22 monument. Okay. There was three others there. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, so that's all. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's okay. Any other other answer? Yes, ma'am. I'm sure this is Sam. The staff has informed me that we need to go back to a previous or final because we did not give it a date. Okay. I previously heard six, a Jane, a half. We call this the record. If the secretary wouldn't mind just reading that into the record one more time, we can give that a date of August 27. Vote on that motion. They continue. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. So we will return to the hearing schedule for nightly and this in particular will be for case B.O.A. 135. 3108. Put the address of 6 then at Al. And the date on that, not I'm sure, is August 27. Okay, ma'am. Motion. Motion to defer to August 27. Okay. No, second. Second. Mr. Schumberg. Yeah. Mr. Ronser. Yes. Mr. Beprazo. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Reagan. Yes. Ronaldo. Yes. Here are a little chairs, the motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. So with that, we will return to the beginning of the hearing schedule for lunch, coming in now. Patient. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. First, we have case B.O.A. 159. 8953. With the address of 21, great, great, close to the role. It's the applicant's can through a their representative's present. Please explain the case before. Thank you, Mr. Schumberg. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for me. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, I have a question for you. Mr. Ronser, shall I give you a question? Mr. Eastern can I go up the code? Mr. bats in our bus? Mr. Ronser, which Ş dieser finna Mr.TYRA keyboard to the bus. Mr. Ystergumbling. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Watson. Mr. Bing Okay. Mr. Ronser Mr. Lawyer Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Arden. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. We're ready to do you that. Next we have case B.O.A. 16-0-09-88. The address of 2193-221 Copperwall Avenue. The applicant can go there represent the president. Would they please divide the case through board? I need to recute myself. Thank you. Okay. So we have a six-member board. Good morning, Mr. Secretary Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Quilty Miller. And Hanley at 28 State Street in Boston represent. Thank you. Then the applicant proponent, which is in spirits as their DBA, the principal Andrew Ardeni, who is with me. Just to go through this request, the proposal is to open a local small business boutique provisions market with the amenity of fine wine and spirits to be sold for packaged goods. The property is in the Austin, Brighton neighborhood districts, local convenience sub-district, which allows the retail market component but requires a variance for its package store use. So just to I think a good thing to put on the record here is the planning department's recommendation of approval, which really speaks to the uniqueness and the justification for the variance. Obviously, I know you have it, but to sum this up, 29, 293 ComAV, which goes to 201 ComAV is a long existing commercial retail hub building, a single story building that has eight storefronts, food uses, market uses, real estate agency. And this located this site for the application and the appeal is a former UPS retail space. As you'll see in the plan, it is small and rectangular in shape. The property is owned by the Greenlish family, which has long ties in Brighton neighborhood as residents in the immediate area. And there's stewards of this building. The proposed use will have less of an impact, obviously, than an UPS store. But what is important, and you see this in the planning board recommendation, is it'll provide for a local amenity for an area where walkability is lacking for something like this. That is the ability to do a boutique, small-scale provisions market and have the opportunity to have packaged alcohol for fine wines, spirits, and the like. We have gone through an extensive public process, or this case, a meeting with the Abudders. We got the support of the neighborhood group with the BAIA. I would also note Madam Chair that this case will require licensing as well, which tends to include certain contingencies for operations and the use. So looking at the floor plan, again, very small in scale, approximately 932 square feet of sales space, very small. And within that, you have a series of programs that aren't just alcohol related. There's a community tasting table. There'll be dried goods. And of course, the ability to have packaged goods for folks in the neighborhood. And further in support of the variance, and I think the planning department speaks to this with respect to the Austin Brighton needs assessment of Imagine Boston 2030. Really the need to provide walkability and to ensure that we don't have vacant spaces like this former UPS store. And we're providing offerings that are consistent with the neighborhood needs. And so what you'll hear and what you saw, Madam Chair, and the numerous letters of support were from folks who live in this immediate area in Brighton, in and around the site. And further supports the justification, which I think the planning department did such a good job in outlining. So with that, I'll hand it back to you, Madam Chair. Thank you. What hours of operations are you looking for? So the hours of operation will be 8 AM to 11 PM on Monday through Saturday and 10 AM to 11 PM on Sunday. But that also, Madam Chair, we will require should we have the pleasure of approval for zoning. That will be as discussion of the licensing board as well. Thank you. Questions from the board? Does the proponent have any track record operating a liquor store? Yeah, so the proponent is, as I've mentioned, this space that the building is owned by. Mr. Henry, your family in this area, Mr. Arbini, who's, I'm sorry, can you hear me now? We have. Okay, can you start over about their experience? Yeah, I'm coming. So Mr. Arbini, who is, who is on here, has, has gone through extensive training, tips training, has been working with our office as well as consultants. We also will have a manager of record who has specific experience and will be a part of the licensing board application. I think it's important to note too that these are local operators. When I say small main streets of business, his family owns the building, lives in the neighborhood. And so obviously he will have a lease, but it is very important for Andrew and his team to work very closely to ensure that the sale of alcohol is done in a responsible manner. And just to give you some examples on that, unlike the closest liquor store, which the BPDA notes is over a mile away, we don't plan to sell kegs. We don't plan to sell single, single beers. We don't plan to sell necks. We don't plan to do deliveries. And so all of that helps to mitigate that, any potential impacts and addresses really that need that is identified by the BPDA recommendation, but also by the numerous residents who offered their support, coupled with Mr. Arbini and his manager of record who will have extensive experience and will undergo both licensing board review and approval as well as certification by the alcohol beverage control commission for the state of Massachusetts. But I hear all that, but I'm hearing he doesn't have current existing experience operating a liquor store. Is that correct? That's correct. Thank you. Just another question. Is there any difference between a small boutique in a regular liquor store? I'm sorry, it's the size or boutique. Is there any difference from your proposal to a regular liquor store? So, you know, these type of relief has routinely been granted when it's appropriate in scale and use. Right? So one of the aspects of that is, or example, if you look at Huntington Market, which is also on ComAV, this board approved the same variance in the same sub district. And I assume that that is sort of an amenity, if you will, to the market concept. This is not a big box, Mr. Vinnensia. This is not a big box liquor component with only 900 square feet of sales space. A lot of it is meant to drive the provisions in the Orme aspect. So, yes, there is a difference from the sense of what gets licensed is obviously subject to the floor plan. So you can't, if you're licensed for only 900 square feet of sales space, and it shows other non-alcohol-related aspects there, you can't just change that floor plan. So, a very minimal in scale, consistent with the small business. And I will say that, obviously we're looking for a use, but with respect to the operator, Andrew Arbini, I think would like to speak about this. But I will tell you that under Chapter 138, there is an extensive review as to who the manager is, how it's run, as well as the operator. There are plenty of places that maybe have folks who have experience that are negative in this situation. Andrew and his family are extremely well prepared and will have a team that exceeds those requirements under Chapter 138. Andrew, do you want to speak? Yes, I'd love to. Very quickly to Ms. Tanato's point, I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. Excellent and fair question. I do not have experience managing a store of this nature. I have worked at the park and are a repeat certification in the past, and I am working closely with a manager, a mere childry, who has managed a portfolio of both liquor stores and convenience stores. And the liquor license would be in his name, and he would be responsible for the tips training of all staff and the management and inventory of this business. By I would be the kind of main owner and main operator, he would be the kind of main source of experience that includes some of the business. So while I do have a limited experience in this case, although some, I will be relying on a trusted partner who is very experienced in managing a source of nature. And then to Giovanni's point about what the differences here, I think there are several key differences between this and the image you have at the liquor store. And that's why we can play out the gourmet market aspect of this. We are seeing this more well-offer of both weeks of alcohol wine, spirits, or beer wine spirits. We are targeting a kind of higher price point in more luxurious products. We are also featuring dry goods, prepared foods, meats and cheeses, the way I envision this store is specializing more in a gift basket or a Shokkudri board or pre-made Shokkudri board. Shokkudri board, if that is for any type of component that you might want for a type of appetizer or Shokkudri board, those types of things would occupy about a third of the fourth space with the rest dedicated to wine, spirits and craft beer. So you are to break that down, Mr. Binance, you are looking at nearly 600 square feet. And that is to say that again, this space is unique and what supports the variance is that this is a commercial property site. Mr. Hanley, you have frozen again. Does it have an ability to grow beyond that? Mr. Hanley, you froze again, so I don't know. I'm sorry. Yeah, you might want to start over. Okay, I was just stating that with the floor plan and the fact that the existing conditions here, as the board has granted these variances in this same sub-gestic, it is where you have a commercial property. So that has been utilized for a kin retail uses and the like, and that is appropriate in scale. So you can get about 600 square feet of alcohol space that is really driven through that boutique or may offering. And would you say college students are a primary kind of market for the constituents or markets or the other businesses? Yeah, I actually love to think that I'm. That's the sub shop or the other businesses right here giving the proximity to the campus. So yes, given the proximity to campus, college students do frequent the location and visit the sub shop and the piece of place. That being said, the target customer for a shop of this nature, the shop that I want to open up, is more the neighborhood. It's an older client with more disposable income and frankly is looking for a higher end product. Frankly, with the space of this size, we will not be able to order large capacity, a spear, in bulk, where we'll make a profit off of selling in bulk. It's just not a viable business opportunity for a space that small. We would need to have a much larger warehouse to sell beers and in huge quantities. What we're targeting is a higher end client for wine, the spirit. And I think the point that we're trying to highlight is that this neighborhood has so much that is geared towards the students and almost exclusively towards the students. While the cash has that casual dining, while the brick, not even supermarkets style, but like convenience for style convenience. And we think that this neighborhood would really benefit from something that is targeting the community as opposed to the students. And that is absolutely the target of the store here. And I think the owners of the building are also happy as having something that diversifies the offering a little bit. This is something that will bring a new type of customer to this. In Dr. O'Boss. Yeah, and Fernando, if I can just, I don't know if you can hear me or not, but if I can just follow up on that a little bit. So there has been some discussion and we're very mindful of Boston College being nearby. We are on the north side of Commonwealth Ave. You need to cross four lanes, right? And a train track, that's not to say folks wouldn't do that. But whereas there are other liquor stores that are also happening to be on the BC Shuttle, like Huntington Market. And there are delivery companies that deliver alcohol throughout the neighborhood and will deliver to people that are 21 years old. That's not us either. This is really about the walkability, the existing tenants in this space now. We have a real estate office that is owned and operated by a local resident who lives two blocks away. The UPS store is as a nearby resident. I used to use it. I didn't go to BC. I don't live at BC, obviously. So the other thing is, is in this identified in the needs assessment for Austin Brighton. It's the neighborhood has changed. And yes, Boston College happens to be there. But so does a vibrant neighborhood that has expanded in-demographics and has written to you all into the mayor's office to say this is something that we want. So just because they happen to be close to BC, which by the way sells alcohol, promotes alcohol at its football stadium, doesn't mean that the neighbor shouldn't have the opportunity for something different. And that's really what this is providing. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here in mind, I will open it to public testimony. Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Franklin Dosey here. Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Here at testify that we did have this outpinned to both the butter's meeting as well as reach out to the slopes of association, the Bright Boston Improvement Association in this case. We are on this is where there was some confusion among residents in a bar is regarding the date of the hearing or going to a misreading of the date on the website. And because of that, our office is going to request that the board defer this project to a later date. And with that, thank you very much. Thank you. I just want to check. We have additional raise hands here. Adriana. Hi there. My name is Adriana Rolhas. I am a resident of Brighton and we write down the street on Lake Shore Road. And I'm actually very, very excited about this project. I am also a Boston College graduate. And just because the there is a store across the street from college doesn't mean that college students would be interested in it. I think that the offering is really something that's lacking in the neighborhood. I have to go to Marty's and hopefully to get the sort of offerings that Andrew plans to have at this store. I think that the way I see it is that the community is really, really nice. I think that the community is really nice. Having something within walking distance is something really, really nice for the age group that is well out of college. And we are professionals and want something local where we can get a nice gift basket, a nice cheese, a nice bottle of wine. So I always support this. Thank you. Oh, you have Council Murphy. Go ahead. Hello and good morning. Hello and good morning, Madam Chair. Hello and good morning. Members of the board. Council on Murphy is in support of this project. For the record also, I should say, I guess I say my name is Kevin and I'm from Councilor at Large Erin Murphy's office. And again, Council on Murphy is in support. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I might be sure. Hello. I'm going to go to the next floor. You seem to go to the little echo. Can you hear me now please? Somebody seems to have two devices on it. Mr. Gallen. I don't have. I believe I have one device. I have one. My foot. I have one. My foot. I have one. I have one. I have one. And then I have one. I have one. I have one. I've been a resident of Lake Street for four years. First of all, I was strongly support the mayor's office request for to furl this hearing. As was noted in the mayor's office representative, it was misalertized as the day of the hearing. But probably more significantly, the process that was provided to the residents was deeply flawed. This project or this proposal was concealed from the residents by the applicants. They began their process early this year, but there was no indication publicly of it, and there still is not to this date at the location. There was a meeting now, which was limited in its access to people in late May. There was the first we heard about it afterwards. Subsequently, I offered to host a meeting because I had been a public official in the area for almost 50 years and know all the residents there. A meeting was held last week at Boston College, and we had only 20 residents who were in opposition to it. This has been concealed from the residents. They've not had the opportunity to respond to this proposal. Many of the residents are long-term homeowners, older people who have lived in the residential area that have applied for a long, long time, as I have. The reality is this, this proposal is nothing less than an effort to exploit its location close to Boston College. Those of us who lived in the area as long as we have have known, because of its proximity to college, and the number of college students who reside in the immediate area, there's been a tremendous problem with alcohol abuse and underage drinking virtually every weekend, and especially when there is college activities such as football games. Boston College has made its best effort to respond to this. They've in fact spent a lot of money on police. We've called the police. I can tell you, I frequently have had to go out every weekend, pick up bottles, cans. My house is on the side, near the sidewalks. We hear the live noises, but at night, the parties, all the rest of it. The idea of putting a liquor store here, there's a reason this is a forbid news. This is a residential area. Mr. Hamley suggested that somehow the neighborhood was being built served by the tendencies here. Well, he's right about that, but he's right because the owners of the building have changed it. This, if you look at the jacket on this property, if you look at the history of this property, it had three commercial businesses, a head-gracer, some other activities that actually support a neighborhood. Now it's eight. Four commercial vehicles, common vehicles is like to use four restaurants. It's basically become a food court for the university, and the university recognizes that, and that's why they show vigorously opposed this proposal as do I. The reality is, this is nothing less than an effort to exploit the location for the purpose of selling alcohol. As we all know, college students, and they're senior year, most of them are 21, they will be legally able to buy alcohol. The idea that somehow they weren't going to make their way here, or they're going to ignore it, there was too difficult to cross the train contract, is ludicrous. And in fact, if you want to know, you can see how to use this here's by the college students. I would invite the board to look at property jacket for this property, because what you're going to see is the owners of this property have subdivided this property to such a point that they can no longer contain the diner that they now provide for. And in fact, they're out on the sidewalk, on the public sidewalk blocking it, with tables that block the handicap accession. So the idea that this is somehow going to be helpful to the neighborhood is ridiculous. I also want to talk about the traffic and transportation, which I think is so important. Mr. Rapa, Mr. Goundon, I don't know. I'll be right back up. And I'll be right back up by saying this, the transportation issue here is very critical. Lake Speed's 22 feet wide. It's very difficult for people to make the turn. The delivery trucks that are already there are frequently parking on Lake Street in five people's property and elsewhere. I would actually urge the board to take a view of this. I would request the board to throw this given an opportunity as the business office has requested an opportunity to be heard by all of the neighbors. Mr. Beanie does not have any experience in the Lake of Business. He's not even a resident of Massachusetts. He's a New York resident, if he could wear the tight, the truth. So the reality is, is the neighborhood needs a lot more reassurance from this. I would strongly urge the board to defer this matter to give it the full attention that it deserves. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Beanie, would it be difficult to be to those point very briefly? We will give you an opportunity after the public. Yes. Yes. I see Amanda's raise. Are you already spoke, right? Is this a different Mr. Rendoza? I see his hand. I'll put it down. I saw someone different side of that. That's not me. Is that really spoken and testified? OK. So who is it? Hi. This is Ian Gleason. For some reason, my name came up with Frank Mendoza. I don't know about the technical. Long-time resident. OK. I'm a long-time resident of the area. I have no idea. You can call it Mendoza. I'm a long-time resident of the area. And 33-year-old actually. The proposal, I think, is fantastic. It's highly needed. The liquor stores in the area are low-grade. Yes. Yeah, yeah. The idea of getting a high-end shop in this neighborhood that we can walk to is fantastic. And I'd like to speak to the last times for Mr. Galvan, the neighborhood meeting that has held in Boston College. I don't know any of that new work that is. We would have attended if we knew who was on. And to talk to the issue of the students, the students have 100% access to alcohol. A store market has two or three aisles of discounted alcohol. And they just get their cars over there and load up. This is completely insignificant. The issue is we see needs to educate the students on the dangers of excessive drinking and not to be trying to block the young ones where they are. Try it. Thank you. So a new business has the new businesses in Brighton up closing every second storefront of closing. And that non-tronaire like Andrew, apparently a new business is fantastic. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Imagine it is about seven additional raised hands. Do you want me to keep going? I'll do as many as we can. I'm just going to ask everyone to be brief and add new information. And don't talk back and forth to each other. We're not addressing what other competitors are just saying. Just why you're in support of opposition. Thank you. Jessica, this is Annabelle Brighton Austin Improvement Association. May I speak? Yes, please. Annabelle from the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We held our monthly meeting in June. It was a well-attended meeting about 100 participants. About 25 to 30 were there specifically for this project. All residents of undying, lake, lakeshore, canaryk. We've loaded to support this project. We don't feel that it will harm the university. We do feel that it will provide a local convenience. It is on a train stop with ample parking. And we also feel that it is replacing the UPS store, which has high volumes of traffic with UPS pickups, Amazon dropouts and pickups. But it's all day long that having this use will actually alleviate the traffic issues there. And we do feel that it is consistent with other relief that was given to other local convenience zones, such as this. So we'd like to go down bracket and support. I also like to speak as a director butter who works right at that block. And there's on undying road that walks to that block. And as a resident, not as a BIA, I'd like to go and record and support. I do not feel it will be harmful. It is a very small retail store that will cater to the residents, not the students. And I hope I believe that they will be responsible in writing a store that they will not sell to underage drinkers. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. OK. Madam Chairperson, Tom Katie from Boston College. Hello. Hello. OK, for me to speak. Yes. My name is Tom Katie. I'm the vice president of government relations and community affairs at Boston College. We want to go on record strongly opposing this idea of putting a liquor store in this location. Boston College has approximately 9800 undergraduate students. Half of them, approximately 4,500, are under the age of 21. We spend close to $100,000 a year on Boston police details, Boston College police details, along with a full-time employee who deals with off-campus behavior in this particular neighborhood. I absolutely support Secretary Galvin's opposition to this. I am stunned. We have worked very hard with the owners of this property. And the attorney representing them saying that Boston College uses absolutely all of those stores are there for BC students. And Secretary Galvin is correct. It is a food court. But adding a liquor store directly across the street from St. Ignatius Catholic Church, by the way, that has a mass beginning at 10.30 on a Sunday morning. And this liquor store wants to open up at 10 a.m. I think is ludicrous. I am very disappointed that the owners of this property want to put right across the street, well, half of our student body, a package store. And then on seven Saturdays in the fall, yes, we do have football games. But we also have alcohol inside the stadium. We have IDs. I looked at not once but twice. And we have hub security that works all of our sporting events to prevent underage drinking. This is not an add on. This is not an improvement. I've attended three meetings on this. And Boston College wants to go on record with the board of appeal in opposition to this. There are better uses of this light. And the owners know that. Thank you. All right. This is Megan Melville. Please proceed me, I speak. Yes, ma'am. Hi. I'm Megan Melville. I'm actually a resident of West Roxbury. Did I go on as a four owners of the retail location and that spans from $2,193? OK. So can we focus? We just want to focus on public testimony right now. We will circle back to the applicant at that time. OK. OK. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Richard Wood. Yes. I have been a resident of the neighborhood on 36 Lakeshore Road. I firmly stand behind Bill Galvin's assessment of this in opposition to this appeal. And I can testify at length on problems with student drinking. And I just want to say that I am very, very much opposed to this appeal. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Two more. Two more. OK. Sheila? Hi. This is Sheila Gleason. I'm at 40 years. I've been 40 years. I've been 12. I've gotten an ice stand in support of this application. And I think for far too long, all of the institutions, I'm also a BC graduate. All of the institutions have dictated what happens in our neighborhood. And Oak Square is coming back again, finally, after the pandemic, after all the closed restaurants. And I really feel like a business like this will really benefit the neighborhood. And I would hate to see a large institution while we're writing the wishes of the residents. So thank you for listening. Thank you, ma'am. OK. On the other hand, D.B.? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Sorry. Yeah. I'm also a resident of the neighborhood. And in our neighborhood, it isn't just very loud parties with clearly drunken students often on Saturday night. It's drunken students literally falling asleep in people's backyards. They're so debilitated. And with respect, I think it doesn't really matter who the store is targeting because the convenience is to walk across the street. There are only four parking spaces. But specifically, the issue I want to address is this. I'm a handicapped person. I eat in these clutches or a cane to walk. There are picnic tables and benches on the sidewalk that block about 80% of the sidewalk. I don't know if they're sitting in permission or not. But it's treacherous to walk around them, especially when there are students there to try to get to the team. And I feel as though I can't trust this owner to be responsible because of what has happened already. And I think there are 9,000 students who can walk across four lanes that is this and genuine. But still, I think people cross-continent. Well, I cross-continent, well, too. So I stand in a green and Pacific Galvan and vice president, teaching and ask to postpone this decision. Thank you. So let's turn it back to the out-continent. Yeah. I just want to know if we've gotten a lot of comments or in against. Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to just take it in order. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. So. Okay. Now we've got- Name of service had mentioned a confusion in the legal advertisement. Please start over. Name of service is now- Mr. Madeline. Okay. I'll close again. I'll close the door. Okay. So, neighborhood services mentioned a- They said confusion of the legal advertisement. This hearing was properly advertised in compliance with the Nagling Act, the zoning code, and the open meeting law. The ZBA sent out the notices to the legal abutters within the correct time and with the hearing date and the matter. Mr. Galvan wouldn't have gotten that because he's not within the radius. He has a legal abutter for receiving notice. Also, in compliance with the open meeting law, the City clerk's office had this hearing correct matter, correct, hearing date posted within 48 hours on its site and the hearing with the correct matter and the date was also published in the newspaper in accordance with the requirements. What is being referenced is something that happened for every single matter on the board today, not just us. The ZBA has a new tracker which just folks can go online and see where these hearings are. All of the cases for this hearing were included the wrong date and that was corrected seven days ago. It's not even the tracker is not even a requirement under the enabling nag or the zoning code or the open meeting law. Even if it was, it was corrected seven days in advance. We should not be treated any differently than the dozens of cases that this board has heard today, all of whom had that same confusion. This is, I respect Mr. Galvin, although I do say there has not been any collaborations with Boston College from their end. We have been very eager to work with them. He mentioned a meeting at BC and concerns about transparency. We were never invited to that meeting. How can we engage and work together if we're not even asked to participate? We did go through a lengthy process with Owen S. We did our butter speeding. We got a standing ovation from the BAA representative from BC was there. I offered to continue to work with them. I will say I'm intrigued that Mr. Keity mentioned that they have a full time employee to do this. We would like to work with that full time employee. We have had the opportunity since this happened to go over and look at BC's program. They promote six different beers at EGLE's Alley, which is the main entrance to the football stadium, which those 4,500 of miners that Mr. Keity references go through. Cisco, Alligash, Bud Light, also Abertized Bud Wiser on the stairways and throughout. I think there's a way for us to work together. I will say we also reviewed Boston College's ID process and we will be more strict. We will have a state of the art scanner, B2, ASP4, backup as well. And clearly we will have much less of an impact than a massive stadium with 4,500 underage students in there seeing and being promoted alcohol throughout. The last thing I will say is with respect to the traffic and I think the Annabelle nail this pretty well. We are talking about 930 square feet of sales space for a walkable market and again only 600 square feet of alcohol. That is not massive deliveries. What I also have made clear is unlike DoorDash, which BC also advertises on campus that delivers liquor to people that are 21. We are not doing external deliveries either. And so if you look at a UPS store where folks are coming in with packages and packages are going out, far more traffic impacts than a walkable or may market where you can come in and get some wine and cheese and maybe sit at the community table, sample some craft beer and go home with a bottle of wine for dinner. If you are interested in purchasing large package goods and 30 packs, we don't sell kegs, we don't sell neds, you are not going to the store. And college students aren't going over to buy a $100 bottle of scotch or kosher wine, which we would suggest in a neighborhood that has a very strong orthodox in Jewish community that we can serve. And finally, Mr. Galvan talked about long term neighbors. You heard today the support of many, many like Ms. Police and others who are long time bright in residence, but also live within the direct vicinity. And that's what was represented in the many letters of supports that you received. And I would just say that again, my client is eager to continue to work with BC. We think we'll have a very good program. And as this process moves forward, we look forward to continuing the discussion with the licensing board as well. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? I'd like to make a motion. Thank you, Madam Chair. I look for a big motion of the trail for this case. We heard from both sides on this. If there was confusion in terms of public meeting as well as stated, then we need to, that should be addressed. And obviously there are deeper issues that need to be addressed on both sides of this matter. So I will question this for a moment. Is there a second? A second. Mr. Stombridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Eiken. No, I believe it sounds like the meeting was properly advertised and that we heard enough here to be able to make a decision to make. Mr. Bernardo. I'll vote, yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Hi, Chair. Yes. This is Sam. The next available date that we have available September 24th. Is that acceptable? Mr. Handle. See you then. Okay. See you then. Thank you. Thank you. And Madam Chair, this is Sam. Would it be possible to call in request for withdrawals for the 1130s before we continue? Yes. Thank you. So with that, we will ask if there are any requests for withdrawals or withdrawals of cases from the 1130s. Doctor. I can't enjoy the system. It's 221 in the square. I request a withdrawal of our creditors. Mr. Wiener. Yes, sir. Sorry for the confusion before. That's quite right. There was a choice. Also, that would be for case of B.O.A. 1597093. The address of 22 monuments square. Would you, if you will explain the world, someone, date with the address? It's Kevin Joyce. I have a question with trial without credit. Is it the case? The excuse is withdraw. I'm sorry. That's quite right. Is there, would you like to explain or would you like to just look at that? Just leave it at that. Just withdraw without credit. Please. May I have a motion? Oh. Sorry. I'm sorry. This will just be a straight withdrawal. Okay. withdraw. May I have a motion? Motion or withdraw? No, second. Second, please. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Abaza. Yes. Mr. Ponds. Yes. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Pannato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Sorry for the trouble. Now we move on to the assembly. Excuse me, Mr. Stonebridge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stonebridge. Excuse me, Mr. Stonebridge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stonebridge. Madam Chair. The board. Attorney Ryan Spitzman. Madam Zomeranci. Business address of 168 H Street First Law. Self-Boston. When this proposal was re-advertised and was inadvertently a violation was left off, they had to re-advertise and have already been provided a new date of August 13th. So, but I'm here today only the process and requesting a deferral on this matter. Okay. It's the date. It's August 13th, Madam Chair. Mr. Spitz. Right. Yes. That works. Thank you. We have a motion. Make a motion to defer until August 13th. Is there a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yeah. Mr. Lawrence here? Yes. No, I wasn't able to do that. Is Berraza? Yes. Because I caught on. I know. If you give it into this. Yes. That's right. Great. Yes. But she's not only first to be. Yes. Carole Ots, yes. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, dude. Another hand. Raise. I Julie. Yes. I'm sorry. I'm wondering why we haven't gotten to the other remaining 11 a.m. hearings. Oh, because it's 1130 and we're just required to ask if there are any deferrals. We will turn back to the 11s after that. Any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Okay. Back to you, Mr. Stonebridge. We'll go to the 11 o'clock here in case BOA. 160. 49. 07 with the address of 40 Emmets. If the applicant and the board were represented as president. Can you reach by any case in the board? Can you raise your hand if you're on to this proposal? All right. Boss. I hear him. Yep. Go ahead. Okay. And Louis Santana should be on. Yes. He's unmuted as well. Okay. Madam Chair, members of the board. Is this a proposal for a single family of residents? I'm sorry. We can barely hear you. Is it better now? A little bit. You just may need to be closer to the mic. Good morning, but I'm chair, members of the board. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. This is a proposal for a single family of residents. We decided to decide on the recommended going for an intervention on the recommended go for what we notice. The proposals are for한데, and the requested intervention. The mandatory to get an independent regulatory officer and담ale limited responds. As we decide on the allocated committee, the assigned regulatory office is at aaddwrios voluntary definition for housing association for it to be ill- gw Representatives who are resolved for more accommodations for Shycastan, structure and we want to use the same type of, and the result of that is we are trying to minimize impervious surface on the property due to the fact that this is the vicinity of wetland. The property itself is in the corner of the wetland law for some, so the wetland has the features to not apply, but the construction has to respect the conditions in the city of coastal motorbases for my house. Next slide please. So we are going to utilize the topography in order to avoid the full basement and also excavation in the property. And all that is going to be applied to minimizing the inventory. So that on the left side that will be a slab of crates and so on to build a high side. So it is a by-level situation due to the edge on the left side and you will be able to see that on the proposal emissions. Next slide please. So that is the first floor and the second floor which will be the next slide contains two bedrooms in a dormant, a frame, construction type. If you are going to the elevation please. Keep going on the slides. So that is the second floor which is basically an inflect, our two dormers, our two small bathrooms. And finally the elevations will reflect the topography of this site on the next slide. Please continue. Please continue to the next slide. Thank you. What's like, what page do you want him to go on? Can you help us? Elevations please? What? Okay, keep going. That's good. That's good. Thank you. So as you can see that is the stay on the floor slide. Okay, as you can see that is the topography. On the left side we have an edge on the right side. You will be a by-level situation. The construction is a slide concrete in order to adhere to the restrictions of the conservation commission. And as you can see from the second slide which reflects on the notes, again the owner owns a note, for to the rear and for a bit street, all those slots with exception of number 42 and existing houses and the proposed constructions are subject to order of taken by the conservation commission. So they are not available. You cannot develop those slots unless you hold the process in conservation commission. We have indication you write it from the conservation commission and that this particular note number 82 is not under the jurisdiction and so is not over 42 which is overreplend. We also reach out to parks department and we have just a decided to be left on the property in order to comply with the setback from the note that is subject to conservation commission restrictions. With that I go through my presentation and if you have any questions or something else. Any questions from the board? Here none out. Take public testimony. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Joe B. Bimperry and I'm the High Park Community Engagement Specialist for the Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant has completed the community process which consists of an outstanding facility that was made first and a civic meeting on June 3rd with High Park Neighborhood Association. No concerns or voice during the about his meeting. Props did go before the civic who did approve and support the project. Thank you for your time in the mess office of neighborhood services. We're looking for a report with the judge and it's not. Thank you. Okay. Rockshan looks like I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay. With that may have motion. And chair like to put for a motion approval with the proposal that the plans be submitted to the Boston Planning Department for site plan review and for preservation of landscape and trees. There's actually a close Mr. Cambridge. Yeah. Mr. Blansey. Yes. It's better for us. Yes. Mr. Collins. Mr. Eakin. Yes. Mr. Panna. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion carries. That's case of the birth. So with that we will go to case B.O.A. 154 8122 with the address of 813 East Broadway. If the applicant and or their representative is present with the place. Thank you, Mr. Cember. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Ryan Spitz with Adam's and Marancy, business address of 168 H Street, first floor. So Boston with me today is the owner of Vivek Yadav and as well as the project architect Jacob Levine. This is a proposal to extend in existing two family dwelling by way of a rare addition as well as an interior renovation of the floor layouts. I just like to just please note on the advertisement it said that an elevator was included. That elevator was actually removed from the plants due to the neighborhood concerns and is reflected in the drawings that you're seeing here today. The proposal is located within an MFR sub district. There is only one zoning violation that we do have a roof structure restriction, which is a conditionally used permit as the proposal of the addition, also the profile of the roof. That roof structure restriction came from a text amendment to the zoning code back in 2019. There are a couple of roll houses on this same block that share similar architectural characteristics that have extended their buildings into the rare yard as well, specifically 817 and 823 East Broadway, which this proposal will be consistent with those two properties and will not damage the uniformity of the height or architectural character of the immediate vicinity. The additional additional 35 feet from the existing structure will also maintain approximately a 35 foot setback in the rear, which is also a button of 15 foot wide passageway or right. Both units will now have better functionality and more needed space. Unit 1 will consist of the garden level in the first floor, which will contain a three bed, three bath, kitchen, dining, office space. Unit 2 will consist of the second floor, the third floor, four bed, three bath, kitchen, dining, and office space. There will also be on each floor, there will be 150 square foot open space, red decks, and the back. At this point, I am going to pass it over to the board for any questions or comments. Thank you. Questions from the board? Can I not admit public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office will defer to the judgment that is boarded some background information in the community process. Ones hosted two of the butter's meetings, 1st February 7th, May 29th, and Reghires' proposal. They also went on to meet with the City Point Neighbor Association on June 11th. During the community process, we heard concerns from a butter's regarding what they felt was a lack of historic context, the proposed scale of the project as well as the design. They felt that the home is a part of a historic brownstone district in this part of South Boston. There are also concerns about the potential loss of green space in the rear of the property, and leading that impacting the heat island effect. Also, concerns were raised regarding what they felt would be a loss of natural sunlight and air flow and privacy, as well as the roof structure violation. When they outlawed before the City Point Neighborhood Association, the Civic offered its opposition to this proposal. Our office has additionally received 38 letters in opposition from a butter's as well as members of the broader community. Without deferred to the board at this time, thank you. Thank you. Any good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Laura here from Consul, close office. Consul's thing would like to go a record in opposition due to feedback from a butter's neighbors in the City Point Neighborhood Association. As we received 23 letters and signatures against the proposal during the community process, neighbors call attention to the precedent that this rear extension required relief from the Sony Coal was set at this stretch across from Meta Ono, a matter of honor partner. Neighbors highlighted this extension who contracted the City School of Preserving Green in Open Space, potentially further in her heat island effect, as well as deceased natural light, air flow, privacy for a butters in overall holiday of life as I was so. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Julie? I would like to thank you. This is Julie Berry. I'm an attorney at Prince Lowell Tai, and I'm here representing Dr. Robert and Mrs. Jill Morris at 811 East Broadway. And I know that Dr. Morris is going to speak. So I'm just going to speak to the legality here and let Dr. Morris speak about the impacts. But I did file a letter with you this morning and then our concerns are addressed in that letter, but I follow up on what was previously said. They're my clients have but this property directly. It is going to obliterate their sunlight. It is going to cause air flow problems, and there isn't any demonstration here that this unit is somehow that this property is somehow different in kind or type, or that there is some economic hardship for this applicant. That the only way that they can develop this property is with what is proposed. There are numerous properties in this neighborhood. Everyone exists on the same parcels. There hasn't been any demonstration that variances which are supposed to be sparingly granted, even though that's often not the case. There isn't any evidence that this is entitled to a variance and to refute what the applicant's attorney says. There are additional issues with this, including the excessive var and the insufficient rear yard setback. It wasn't just the elevator. It's the height of this addition and everything that it purports to do because of it. We respectfully request that this petition be denied. Thank you. Okay. Are you nervous? Okay. Hello. Good afternoon. Madam Chair, members of the board. Thank you very much for your time. My name is Kevin O'Sullivan from Councilor at Large, Erin Murphy's office. Councilor Murphy would like to echo the voice of the community as well as the out of Councilor Flynn and state that Councilor Murphy is in opposition to this project. Thank you very much for your time and for your consideration. Thank you. All right. And you have a couple of raised hands. George. Oh, it's a, yeah, I'm going to go to the city point neighborhood association. I think you just put this hands down. City Point. Good afternoon. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. All right. So this is the way I'm going to present to the city point neighborhood association. We did in fact take a vote. The vote was overwhelming to a process project. There was only one vote in support. The, we asked that this board uphold the zoning and this project does not meet the conditional use comment requirements. It is the other kind. I just want to get it's very important. He is a Vietnam that and this is his home, his child's home. And when the attorney is referencing eight twenty three East, well, I made that developers zoning attorney now lives in the Bahamas. That was a gift, a critical gift for him to be allowed to build that particular structure. So it goes back to quality of life. It goes back to green space. It goes back to the heat island effect. And because there is a zoning violation, we asked that you uphold that zoning and let the people that live in those breaks, which are directly across from metal upon a part, which you all know, including the name, to allow them to enjoy their space, their green space. So we are opposed to that. Thank you. Thank you. How do I get on now? Can you speak to me in a few minutes? Yes, I'm in opposition. Good afternoon to everyone. My name is Dr. Robert Mars. My family has been in South Boston since the 1840s, practicing medicine since then. Our family has been at 811 East Broadway for some 120 years, three generations. We have worked hard to respect the historical nature of these brown stones, front and back. The ZBA's decision here is not a minor concern. It will affect these historically significant properties for the next hundred years. The ZBA's will rush into a purchase and expand and destroy the green space that we have, which is a quadrant between four-street and street and street these Broadway. Surely creating heat island is mentioned. Science definitely documented by the Harvard School of Public Health at Boston University School of Public Health, with temperatures rising possibly by seven degrees. We rejected the historical value of the brown stones preserved, the green space saved for the next generation. The design is bad, belongs more of the seaport, and has no systemic historical value. It surprised a longstanding residents of light sun, air, privacy, and cast a shadow on our house until 12 noon, all days of the year. Finally, as noted, I have 36 or 38 attending a project stated, no, this project down in total. Not asking for changes, they don't want the project. Our basic human rights must be favored over this degree because... Thank you. My good afternoon. My name is Eileen Smith, and I am a lifelong resident at 766 Broadway. And I have sent a letter, but I do have additional comments. And this project is an example of total destruction of our neighborhood, the money interests. The project is in total contradiction to the mayor's priorities of affordability and equitable housing and does not embrace the city's vision. It negatively impacts quality of life or direct- to-bothers neighboring residents. We are losing sunlight, air flow, security. It's also important to note at this time that the developer does not live in self-brositing. And yes, there was a similar project that was on that same block that unfortunately got approved at 823. And it should have never been approved all of the same reasons that are being addressed today. And I asked that board prioritized historic preservation, meaning open green space, protect our quality of life, deny this request. This proposal is just pure over development. And I thank you for your time. Madam Chair, you are going to keep going. There's about four additional ways to answer. We'll go as fast as we can and please add new information. Thank you. Trish. Thank you, my Auditor. Yes. Thank you. I'm Trish Niles. I'm the daughter of Dr. Robert Morris and to the Morris 811ies Broadway is also my home. The new additional information that I want to add in opposition to this project in total is the risks that the construction and new extension cause for all of the neighbors, especially 811. They're not hypothetical risks. You heard about development at 817 and 823 is probably already seeing the impacts of that. So besides the heat, light and air loss, which is serious. We have seen damage to historic and fragile homes. You heard about the big third neighbor George Balconis, which you might mention as well. But the project at 823s Broadway that you heard about actually caused his world to collapse. Again, these are not hypothetical threats to these houses when construction like this happens. You know, that's endangering his home and his family in addition to the cost that he's bearing of over $100,000 because the developer won't bear it. The restoring his home after construction is unnecessary and only in benefit to the developer who recently bought this house 813ies Broadway. So I render my opposition with the 36 other members of the neighbor 136 of 38 to this project in full. And I'd like to note as well that the mayor's office has contacted us to say actually opposition rather than deferment to the board on this particular project. I can. Jessica, I need to. I still see her. No, she was cut off. Hello. Can you go on? Yeah, Jill. I see city council. I'm here on behalf of the council president. President represented. The testimony here. Okay. Hi, can you hear me. A. The opposite. The office. Yes. Hi, I'm here on behalf of the council president, Lucille Louigin. And I'm here to go to go on record in opposition. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Madam chair, can I just respond to the couple things briefly? Yes, I don't. Just a bit of. I'll be brief. Madam chair, I just want to highlight there, you know, from the attorney that was speaking as well as some of the comments concerns. First and foremost, we are not seeking any variances under the zoning code. We're seeking to use permit that resulted from a text amendment in the zoning code back in 2000. The 19th. Furthermore, it's very consistent with the two other properties, one that neighbors failed to mention that was specifically supported from the neighbors as well as 817. These Broadway further, we don't have a floor area violation. We are below. We don't have any sort of open space violation. We have. We're required here is 200 square feet per unit. We're at approximately 1200 to five total square feet for the property, which is well over. So again, there are no other violations. This is just a conditional use permit that we're seeking. So thank you for that moment to respond, Madam chair. Mr. Spitz, can I ask the extension that you're requesting? How does it compare to the ones you're quoting? The 823 was deeper than the extension that we were the first, we just resulted in two different community meetings. In a lot of the concerns we heard based from the first community meeting, we did have no violations originally. We reduced it and we always told to was to take a deeper look at 817 and make a common line. We did that, but again, resulted in no support from any of the surrounding neighbors as you heard from today. But again, we substantially changed those plans, which only resulted in that root structure, conditional use permit. Other questions from the board? I mean, I've seen a lot of very low additions, and only one example on that block of an addition of that height. Why so high? Why not just a lower addition like some of the other buildings on that block? It was more so from the functionality standpoint. If you can see the existing condition of how the layouts were, there wasn't the functionality just didn't work. So the dark crisis was extending it back. If they did eliminate that section, that would be a zoning compliant project. So again, there are no variances here. Everything's dimensionally compliant within Article 68. Again, except for that conditional use permit that we're seeking, which again, I just keep highlighting it was a result of a test amendment back to the zoning code in 2019. Other questions from the board? So there are no FAR or any other dimensional zoning violations? No, there are not. What the FAR is required here is a 2.0 and we're at 1.1. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, is there a motion? Yes. Man, I'm sure I basically comments from the residents. This project is not increasing. How since supply or increasing? Be within space. I think the project can make some changes to just benefit the abolishments and make a motion to the Niagara. Is there a second? Okay, that was a second Mr. Snubbridge? Yes, well. Okay, Mr. Snubbridge. Yeah? Mr. Valencia? Yes. Beto Raza. I know. Mr. Collins? No. Mr. Aiken? No. Mr. Panado? No. Chair votes, yes, but the motion does not carry. Is there another motion? Oh, go ahead, there. Thank you. I'm motion to approve with BPDA design or bit? Is there a second? Mr. Snubbridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? No. Mr. Barbaro Raza? Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? No, I don't believe it's not the threshold for conditional use permit. Mr. Panado? Yes. The chair votes, no. The motion does not carry. Okay, Samantha, do we leave it here or do we require the vote? So at this point, since that line, we have to either move forward to Nile or the girl. I think we already tried that, didn't we? No, they said that. Nalia DeFurro? We might try that. Well, may I have a motion? Motion for DeFurro. Second. Okay. I'm not even so far. Mr. Snubbridge? What does it come on? Oh. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Barbaro Raza? No. Mr. Collins? Yes. Mr. Aiken? No. Mr. Panado? Yes. The chair is going to vote no, so this motion does not carry. Caroline? Yes. So at this point, it would be a denial. And do we need to make a motion or is it a denial? No, you don't need to make a motion. Okay. It just means that they can't reapply. No. But no, you don't. You have to do a new design. Yes. Thank you. All right. Moving on to the last case, the other four of us on the clock. It's case BOA 160, 7-8-4-1 with the address of 200 states. If the applicants went or they represent one, would they please point the case to the board? Can you raise your hand if you're on for this proposal? No. I'm not. Okay. Okay. Okay. And I have a motion. Well, do we? Caroline, would we come back to it later or should we have a motion for denial without practice? We, Madam Chair, you can either tonight without prejudice or there can be a motion project for the fall. Okay. Okay. I'm sure I can try calling the applicant and see if they're able to attend it later time. Okay. And then we can come back to it at the very end of the next session. Okay. So can I skip it or do I need to have a motion for the fall? Caroline. Let's do a motion project for all just to make sure that everyone. Sure. May I have a motion for the fall? Motion for the fall. Okay. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bavanza. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Mr. Canato. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, Madam Chair, the Dean. Would you be September 24th? Okay. Thank you. So let's hear the next case first, because I think before we take a break, because I think that one included an interpreter who's been waiting if there's no here. So we'll move on to the reading discussion to get your boy on 30. And of course case of case B.O.A. 158. 7527. With the address of 287, 289, be straight. If the applicant can handle the representative's front, please play in case of the board. Yeah. Yeah. Here. Okay. Great. Okay. Are you the, are you the translator wait, correct? Make sure our on stand 100%. I speak English on stand about my absence is too much strong. It's so sort of old. Okay. No, so we do have an interpreter. Do you require an interpreter or if you do, they're going to need to start interpreting now. If you don't, then that's fine. Okay. Okay. So do you need one or no? Maybe don't. Yes. Yes. Yes, you need one. Okay. Yes. So let's invite invite the interpreter just to begin. Yeah. If you're on interpreter, can you raise your hand? Mr. Cruz. We had it. Mr. Cruz. Are you still on? I don't see in the chat. Oh. Okay. Okay. I'm asking you. Okay. It's okay for me. That's okay for me. Are you okay? You're received Mr. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. All right. Flourgeos, Mr. Roger. Okay. This project is a innovation that pays an existing space to family and grows and now. The space exists 100 percent. My client contacted my company about the innovation because have the family in first floor. It live in second floor. But my client and need more space for for louder and one bathroom. In two offices because have the family they care in the second floor. You have to make work because I have the meeting about the day cares. You have two kids in high school. And you two offices for accommodation. The big world is the billions. To mark time and the basement for possible use in the reason the finish basement. Just the accommodation, the family living and probably. I know. Of course extra extra space, extra people's and house. Jon's for accommodation that people's given and address. Thank you. Caroline. Can you just explain to us to all the board members again why this ended up here. So what's the understanding I think with. Yes, there was a little confusion at the subcommittee because it said Corbitt and use. And so there was confusion over what that forbidden use was if it was a basement dwelling, but the planning examiner explained that the forbidden use is office space. Okay, because that's what they're requesting. Any questions from the Board? Hearing none, can I have public testimony? In the office space, the issue would that be why is a full kitchen needed? So that's a question to you there. And the closet and closets as well. Yeah, the reason the closet's inside the office because the client had to make paid works about the big air in the kitchen in high school, create these things for accommodation. The paperwork's accommodation, the leaders, the drivers, everything we have and house. But Jeffrey, are you busy? Who's that Mr. Hampton? Yes, ma'am. I think it's just froze. It's accessory, maybe we should apply for it in the wrong way because the accessory office is like a home office should be allowed if the two fit. You just muted, okay. We kind of incomplete completely argue Mr. Hampton. So I think the office space is accessory office space which would be allowed if it's less than 25% of the lawyer. I think it was just one of those things where it may have been re- you know, the appellate may have applied for this incorrect. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? Sorry, ma'am, Charles. Charles. Yes. Ma'am spoke to the planning examiner. He explained it's residential. There's two, this year is only outside of the building and because there are two offices and there was a residential neighborhood and it's in clear commercial office space and so that's what it's for. Okay, thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am. Sorry, one more thing. You said that there was a child care office above or a day care above? Family day care. A family day care. A family day care above? Yeah. I mean, just I'm looking for more of like a safety issue like having full kitchen at the bottom of full-running office. I'm not sure if it's the appropriate use in a residential district. If it was an acillary use as Jeffie mentioned like home office, that's another thing. Okay. Those are just some of my concerns and I'm just seeing it allowed. Thank you. No further questions. The public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, the mayor is also to defer to the judgment that's board. Some background information, the community process. We have the app constriculate flyers to about as within 300 feet. We're unaware of any concerns at this time. We have them contact the West Village Neighborhood Association, which stated that they did not need the proponent to go before their membership without the Fritz of the Board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise, Nancy? I'm Trustee Noah, Commissioner Ways-Pantson. With that, ma'am, may I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve with no bill and code relief and PPDA's is on review. Is there a second? Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. What? Did Mr. Stambridge disappear? Uh-oh. Okay. I'm going to keep going. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Bervazza. I'm going to say no for the reasons I just stated. Mr. Collins. Yes. Mr. Aiken. Yes. Ms. Panado. Yes. The chair votes yes. And I think the motion carries, but I think we also lost the motion carries, but I think we lost Mr. Stambridge and Allen. All right. Let's take a pause. This might be a good time for a break and we're going to find out what's happening. All right. So I think you're going to have to take your own break. Jessica, you know what's going on? At what time do we return? 15 minutes. 15 minutes. 1256. I'm going to go check some. I'm going to take them back. No, you're good, Mr. Aiken. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you.