 Resurrect. Hey. Ready when you are. Good evening. The city of Boston zoning board of appeal hearing for January 18th, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being recorded. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in this hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Good evening, Madam Chair. President. Good evening. Ms. Betapuraza. Good evening, Madam Chair. President. Good morning. Floor is yours, Mr. Stembridge. You say good morning. Oh, did I? Oh, my God. I'm used to the Tuesday hearings. My apologies. Okay. That's okay. But we will talk with the hearing floor. Okay. Okay. First, we have case B08152 9769 with the address of 1301 to 1305 Boyleston Street. Is the applicant hand or their representative president? Yes, we are. Thank you. Excellent. Please proceed. Good evening, Madam Chair. Members of the board. My name is Brian Judge. I'm going to turn it with a lot from a cool son stores located at 400 Atlantic Avenue in Boston. We represent the appellant Fenway Enterprises, 1301 Boyleston Street LLC, which is an affiliate of sandals and associates. I'm joined today by Mike Fitzpatrick senior vice president of development for sandals and associates. We're here today to request an additional three year extension of the long standing zoning relief for the property located at 1301 to 1305 Boyleston Street in the Fenway neighborhood to allow the property to continue to be operated for a parking for up to 43 vehicles for a fee accessory parking for a restaurant operated at the property. We have been ancillary off street parking serving uses located on neighboring lots. There have not been any changes to the parking layouts since we were last before the board in 2021. There has been a change to the restaurant in that the former tasty burger has moved next door to the Van S building. But the same owner now operates in our father's deli at the property, but that has not changed the parking operations there. The relief that has been granted over the course of many years is a variance and conditional use permit to allow a parking lot and ancillary parking respectively within the north boils to neighborhood shopping sub district. Of the Fenway neighborhood district as well as a conditional use permit for off street parking facility accessory to a restaurant use within the restricted parking overlay district. We want to mention for the boards benefit that in addition to the three year sunset clause, the prior decision from 2021 contained two other provisos, both of which have been satisfied. Specifically the BPD a issued its design review approval for screening and buffering in November of 2021 and the Boston Transportation Department reviewed and approved the existing signage at the property in January 2022. And ISD confirmed satisfaction of those two provisos in early February 2022. So in conclusion for the reason set forth in our field and discuss today, the appellant respectfully request an additional three year extension of the existing zoning relief from December 18, 2023 to December 18, 2026. Thank you. Any questions from the board. We don't have any. I don't really have any questions, but I was I was hoping that norm can read BTD recommendation. I certainly can. For 13 or one 13 or five Western Street comments from the Boston Transportation Department are as tall. One 50% of all spaces must be eight eight and a half feet by 20 feet. The remaining spaces should be seven feet by 18 feet. Most of the time this light is used for red soft games. Number two, a sign must be posted clearly to indicate the following. The license number issued by by the BPD total capacity determined by BPD. Cost of a park cost to park regardless of the reason this is important to prevent illegal use of a lot. This includes red soft games which tend to be more expensive than a standard fee. Name address and phone number of the licensee. For any problems or experience while parked in the wall, those BTB comments. Great. Thank you so much. Can I ask the applicant how many spaces are compact versus conventional dimensions. Do you do you know. I think it's like a standard standard standard standard standard standard standards. It's going to take a few minutes to pull up the dimension plan which I'll try to find now. And not a problem. I just wanted to understand if you had kind of the ratio of standard versus compact. I don't know. Any other questions from the board? Great. So thank you. Mr. Sembrich reading those as the applicant looks that up. Let's take public testimony. Madam chair members of the board Maggie van score from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We're on the board at this time. We are unaware of any concerns with this application. Thank you. Madam chair, I have no raised hands. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Fitzpatrick not sure if that gives you enough time to. I guess if it doesn't it's okay. I guess the other question to have is, do you see any concerns with what BTD was recommending for the use of the property? I think that's a good question. From what I heard from what was listed. I tried to. Take notes of everything. I did not. I think jumped out of me as a concern and I can. We can certainly post the information that was being said and we have a parking operator on site that would be managing that for us. I certainly want to look at the size of the stalls though because I don't know how that could impact what we have for the count that's shown on the plans. If all of them are majority standard size. When you accommodate 50% of the compact, you probably. You probably have more. But I just wanted to make sure that you were okay with some of those terms from BTD. Yeah. It certainly sound reasonable and I, again, nothing jumped out of me. But it was a lot to take in quickly. I think we're having a restate it. We'll incorporate that into our recommendation of any other questions from the board. With that, may I have a motion? Yes. Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with three proviso. One that it undergoes BPD design review with attention to curb cut dimensions and to include one way interest egress demarcation and bicycle parking. Two that 50% of the spaces must be in to have by 20 feet into remaining spaces should be compact. So by 18 and three that assign must be posted clearly to include the following license number issued by BTD total capacity determined by BTD and cost to park. Thank you. I have a second. Sorry. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Stembridge. That means better. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Thank you. Next we have case to the away. 151 9941. Where the address of five oh six. Each third street. Is the applicant and or their representative president to explain to the board. I'm going to meet you so Lindsey. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes ma'am. Okay. Great. So hi everyone. This is Lindsey Callahan. I am the owner of five of six East third street in South Boston. I am here today to request the addition of a third floor. I am here to request the addition of five of six. I am here to request the addition of five of six. It is my primary residence. I live there with my wife and my two children. They are four years old and two years old. We purchased the property in 2020 and have lived their sense. We love living there. It's great. But my kids are getting older. And our neighbors to the left at one point had a mirror image home. They have a mirror image. They are moving in and you can see it on the plants right there. Part to us moving in. They are a developer. Went through the process of building up. It is wonderful. They have two children now. They have a lot more space. And the neighborhood. It is great for us. Our kids are. Go to school in the neighborhood. We would like to stay. We would love to stay. So we are here in hopes that we can start building. That third floor. We would like to do that third floor. We would like to do that third floor. On the third floor, it would just include a full primary bedroom with a closet. And then a working space. Since both of us do work from home pretty often. Is it essentially a mirror image of your neighbor's addition? It is. It's pretty close. We have elected to not have any outdoor space on the back. I just don't think that we would use it. I think that we would much prefer the living space. They have a. A bit of a roof deck on the back. I don't think I've ever seen them out there. So I would prefer it to be more of an office space. But other than that, the look of it. And everything is essentially a mirror image other than going back a little bit further than what they have. Thank you. Mm-hmm. Other questions from the board. Yeah. For other questions. Okay. Hearing none. Your own. You're on mute. You're on mute. Um, Madam chair, members of the board, Lydia, lasty with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. In a butter's meeting for 506 East 3rd Street was hosted on November 6th. The proponent presented plans. There was no opposition to or support of the proposal. And the mayor's office. And the mayor's office. So we have a new. We have an association. They didn't know opposition to this project. At this time, our office is unaware of any concerns with this application. We would like to defer to the judgment of the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam chair, I have no ways to ask. Thank you. Any additional questions from the board. Hearing none. May I have a motion. Madam chair, I like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review. Paying special attention to the third story to provide a little bit of a setback. So it kind of matches the. The adjacent property. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next we have case B.O.A. 150. 1014. The address of 31.41 Washington Street. The applicant and what they represent going to the board. I think I call on. They were on earlier, I think. I think they were on earlier, but I think they were on earlier. I think it's not going to be easy to hand if you're on or representative. OK, Daniel, you're going to meet yourself here. Panelist. You still want me. Okay. Hi. My name is Paul Martinez. I'm here to the new owner of 31.41 Washington Street. And Jamaica plane. And I'm here because of the change of name from the old owner to my name. I think it's going to be easy to hand out. I think it's going to be easy to hand out. Is there any. Are you doing any other work or is it just the name change? No, just the name change. OK. Any questions from the board? No. May I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. Conor Newman with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. Our office is unaware of any concerns related to this simple change here. Without the deferred to the board. I have no one raised hands. I have a motion. I don't chair. I like to put for a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stonebridge. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have a case to be away on five to seven one six. This year with the address in one eighty eight so one nine eightging for the applicant and the representative president wants to swap to into the board. Those attend the morning. Is there.wealth as the small request. put It. There's more. Bro it's. accepting the court filter. 5 6 chirping. Or this. Addressing 1 88 to 194. I'll make your panelists now. You just have to press accept. And it will mute you for a second. You can unmute yourself. You'll come up and listen. I don't know. OK. Thanks again. Here. You're on mute. OK. And then you have the option to turn your video on. OK. For whatever reason, the video is not working. I apologize. No, you're fine. Thanks. We'll see you. OK. Hi. I'm Sean Davis. I'm the homeowner. Me and my husband and homeowner of 180, 190 fuller. We just would like to add dormers to our home to add living space for our third floor. We do have a three children and an older. My stepdaughter has come back home. So we just are looking to have more space for our family. Any questions from the board? Hearing none. May I have public testimony? Yes. Madam Chair, members of the board, Conorning with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, the mayor's office is expected to defer to the judge who is board. To some personnel changes, I don't have a lot of information regarding this project, but I will state we're unaware of any concerns at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Jay, I have no raised hands. OK. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I would like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stambridge? Yes. Mr. Bedapuraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, ma'am. Thank you. So I'll set you on the things. I'll be in touch with you afterwards. Next time. Thank you. Next, we have its BOA 149-8625, with the address of 4 to 6 Milton Avenue is the applicant and lawyer that you represent the presence of Spanning to the board. OK. Simon, if you're on a representative, can you raise your hand or unmute yourself? I'm not sure. I don't see anyone on that maybe on for this hearing. OK. Do you want to proceed in circle back, Mr. Stambridge? Sounds good. OK. So next, we have case BOA 152-169-8625, 3, with the address of 8, 3, the forestry. Yeah, yeah, we'll get it. And we'll have the representative which can be in touch with the board. Yes. Yes. Hi, members of the board. This is a very small, non-conforming 670-square-foot house, if you can believe that. And we are doing an addition both as a second floor addition and a rear addition to sort of flush the house out to a more of a more of a normal size that's in a neighborhood to a total of 200. I'm sorry, 2,338-square-foot will be the total. We have a violation of front yard, rear yard, and excessive FAR. The FAR, I don't know why we're under. We're away under the 0.5, but that's OK. And in fact, you read this other fourth violation. This fourth violation, which is simply non-conforming, extension of non-conforming, which is exactly what we're doing. The existing house is actually so small that there was a small addition on the side that was added to house the rear door in refrigerator. We're removing that and extending the body of the house itself back and up. It's standard design. It matches a lot of the houses in the neighborhood. And actually, a lot of the houses in this neighborhood are on the small side. They've already done a lot of work like this before. Any questions from the board? OK, hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honored, even with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time, mayor's Office can defer to the judgment of this board. Oh, and I said, the app can circulate a flyer to a buttocks within 300 feet. I can speak. We just heard back from one of the buttocks, regarding the height. But we're unaware of any further concerns or questions at this time without defer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. And I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Ms. Berber-Beraza? Yes. Chair also votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next, we have case B awake. One for nine. Eight for seven. One for the address of 92. Wind them road. It's the applicant and what they represent. The president's or flanking the board. I think I see Mr. Lopez. Do you want to unmute yourself? Or can you unmute yourself? Just because he a panelist. He's a. I sent the request to unmute you as well, but you should be able to do it on your. Oh, there you go. Can you hear me now? Yes, sir. Okay, my name is Roger. I'm Lopez and I live on 92 in the hand road in high park. I really love this place, but it's pretty small. It's only 860 square feet. And I would like to get an addition on the side of the house. Only 8 by 16 is quite fit. So I'm planning on getting married next year and adopt few more dogs. And I'd like to have an extra room where I walk in from the walking and clean the dogs before I go inside the kitchen. Because I don't have much space. And. It's too much money to go up. So I would like to just add this extra room room on the side. Like a full season room and I'm not adding a gas heating there because I do have if you see here, they split. I spoke with the electrician and he said it's much easier to just transfer this one to the room there. I can only use, you know, when I'm walking my dog and come back home and get a warm room to clean up the dog. Questions from the board. Hearing none, may I have a public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, honored even with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. This time the mayor is offered to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process. We had the applicant circulate a flyer to a butters within 300 feet. We received a letter of support from a directed butter next door. I'm going to have a report on the report. I'm going to have a report on the report. That was very pleased with proposal with that with defer to the board this time. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? Yes. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Is better, Baraza. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck, sir. Hello. Motion carries. It means it's approved or. Yes, yes, yes, sir. Thank you so much. Can I leave now or. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you so much. Next. I'll do I believe. Next we have case. Be away. 1515093. With the address of 14 talkroom. Road. Here's the applicant and or their representative president to find the award. You can I meet yourself. Don. Yep. Hello. Good evening. Good evening. We are seeking to relieve, seeking a relief for an existing nonconforming structure at 14 12. We are seeking to find the new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. The building is a new building. Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric? Eric? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric, are you? Eric? Eric. Eric. Eric. I just made you a panelist. So, if this is your case, can you do any of yourself? Oh, this Eric. Oh, hey, Eric. Do you know the applicant? Yes, Simon Swazo, I worked with him for this 46 million app project. I believe he met, he had as the buzz meeting September 18th. that is a butters meeting on September 18th. Do you want to go? Sorry, Eric. Is he on? Because he needs to present that you. We're not taking public testimony. Oh, my apologies. No, that's fine. I do not see him on now. OK, do you know how to get him on? Do you have that? I called him. I called him when I didn't see him on the first time. So I've just been calling him. OK. If the board lost it, we can wait by this. Or I recommend to defer to the full board hearing on January 23rd. OK. So Eric, he did not respond to your call correct? No, he has not. OK. Then I'll ask for a motion from the board. Yep, Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion to defer the case to the January 23rd hearing. OK, is there a second? Dr. Mr. Stembridge. Yeah. There's better browser. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Eric, please, if you're able to communicate that to the applicant, that would be helpful. Definitely. I will call him again and then I'll communicate the new date too as well. Thank you. All right. Have a good night, everyone. Thank you. Have a good night. Thank you.