 you you you you you you you you you you you did and adopt some real winter masks. So please tell us what your extension is based on, your request for an extension? Yes, not sure. We're requesting your extension of the board's decision for this address. We have some issues with financing and debt switch lenders. So it took a little longer than expected, but we are moving diligently to secure the finance and to complete the project. And the poem it's still? OK, may I have a motion, please? Motion to grant a one-year extension? Is there a second? All those in favor? Hi. Most? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling BOA 450351181 to 1183, Bennington Street. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Attorney Lawrence. I wish you the record, sorry. Attorney Lawrence, Latino 245 Sumner Street, Nice Boston. So tell us why you're requesting extension? We're requesting another extension. This is an interesting matter. The federal government actually had placed an order of forfeiture on this property, which prevented occupants from purchasing and proceeding with the development financing on this. The forfeiture matters have been resolved with the US Attorney's office, and financing is currently in place. The matter is expected to close within 90 days, and our client has prepared to finalize plans and permits and proceed with construction immediately on that. And this appeal is still active? It's not expired or anything? It's still expired March 25, 2020. I'm sorry. 2020. Yep. Yep, 2020. May I have a motion then, please? Motion for one year extension. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. And calling the next case, calling B-O-A-755158, 151 to 153 Meridian Street. Name and address for the record, please. Attorney Larian Scatino with the business address 245 Sumner Street, Nice Boston. We're requesting a one year extension on this matter as well. The clients are ready to proceed with construction and pulling the permit. There was just a small holdup with construction financing. Again, this one expires on March 2020. May I have a motion, please? Motion for one year extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling the next case, calling B-O-A-757453653, Cummings Highway. Name and address for the record, please. Pointing out of the hearing members of the board, my name is George Moranse, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, I'm requesting a one year extension on this matter. The decision is set to expire November 16, 2020. Shortly after the decision this board was entered, there was a judicial appeal still in the midst of the judicial appeal. Delighted to get a one year extension to keep the zoning relief active. May I have a motion, please? Motion for one year extension. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Excuse me. Calling the next case, calling B-O-A-68544639 Washburn Street. Name and address for the record, please. Here is your decision related to the next case. Yes. Two separate. Two separate. Okay. Come on, my name is Chair, members of the board, attorney Derek Small. This is just a 51-dops road, brings you math. Here's seeking a one year extension of the position for this address. With regard to Washburn Street, we ran into some issues with environmental and the soil contamination. So the mediation is taking a little bit longer but they grew a lot ready to go. And when does it expire? It expired. It expired until July of 2019. But because of the remediation issues, that were in the experiences we've got the appeal from BPDA and we work with ISD to scroll away the soil. Let's see. Derek, we didn't have to make a denial, put a denial on this one because it's expired already. The permit should have been here before us, before the expiration date. I'm sure there were several reasons why we were, and I'm going to get there, want to be in the National Grit issue with National Strait. With regard to the strike, that National Pair had. We couldn't get into the original permits, get into the ground, so we couldn't get soil contamination. We needed to add more environmental conditions. We wanted to close the silence. We wanted to move to the problem. That was the big issue. The discussion was on for a long time. And we were able to confirm this work. OK. So this looks like it's extenuating circumstances because we are just a not prone to extensions for already expired permits. But given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion for one year extension. And that was completely beyond your control. So may I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following your next case, calling BOA 656-043-34-Dix. Street. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Derek Small. The address of 51 Dops and Roe Branch Mass. Madam Chair, again, we're seeking one year extension of the BOA's decision. Similar circumstances that will be on our control with regard to the strike of National Grid and digging in. And then we have some issues with the finance. And this was also in May of 2019. Yeah. That's correct. OK. So say, make sure you let's have a motion. I'll make a motion for one year extension. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Just a note, please. There should be, somebody should be keeping an eye on this just so that it keeps active. Because it puts us in a difficult position to come in and then give you a retro extension. Understood, Madam Chair. OK. So this is a note to everybody out there. Thank you very much. OK, the next case. On the last case on extensions calling BOA 382897104 Canal Street. Good morning, Madam Chair. Press for the record, please. Sorry. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Ruth Salman with Nixon Peabody. On behalf of the petitioner. I'm our apology. Psalm Noth hospitality. We're here for a further extension. I'm pleased to announce that Psalm Noth has finally signed a contract with Trace Hotel to open a Cambria hotel at this location. That is what has taken some time is the negotiation of a contract with a flag. We expect to pick a contractor in the next few months and begin construction in 2020. And so this is your second or third extension. This would be the third. This is the third. And I hope final. And final. Yes. It doesn't expire until February 24 of 2020. OK, may I have a motion, please? I think a motion for one year extension. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Following board, final, Abba, calling B-O-A 892 898 267 O'Callany Avenue. Hold on a second. Name an address for the record, please. Tony Madame Chair, members of the Board, and Mr. George Oranci, I'm the committee with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair, members of this application was approved by the board on November 19th of this year. At the hearing, I incorrectly stated that there were 65 parking spaces associated with the building, which will contain 55 dwelling units in commercial space. The plans that were submitted at the time showed 60 spaces. We went through community process showing 60 spaces. There are, in fact, 60 spaces. I'd like to correct for the record that there are 60 spaces rather than 65 parking spaces that was as was stated at the initial hearing. OK, may I have a motion to confirm that the approval was for 60 spaces? Make a motion to confirm the approval of 50 spaces? There are a second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A 897 7172 509 East Fifth Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, my name is George Moranci. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madame Chair, members of this matter was approved April 9, 2019. It is a new three-story unit building at 5090's, Fifth Street, in South Boston. My client, as the site plans of being passed out, this is seeking approval from the board to effectively shift the building 2.7 feet further, placing it at the front lot line. It was originally a 2.7 foot set back there. There's a building to the rear of this. It was a companion case that day for 509 Rearies Fifth Street, as can be seen on the site plan. The space where the new building and the lot for the building and the rear meet is a bit tight. My client, as he's ready to begin construction activities, would like to create some additional separation distance there. The building particularly is close to the exit from the building and the rear. So, sorry, so you're closing to move at 2.7 feet closer to the front lot line? Correct. Put it on the front lot line. Put it on the front lot line, is that modal? There is not modal, but there was a sighted front yard set back violation for which the board granted variance. So essentially, he would like to shift it from a modal because it's a small lot and it's a small building. But to reduce the rear of the building to create additional space, they would make the building unacceptably small. So he'd like to take advantage of that 2.7 feet at the front. Mr. Kendal, did you have a chance to look at the plans? I did. And then everything is okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. Zero second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Please, we have board finaled, Abur calling BO8900, 973, 485 Ashmont Street. Name and address for the record, please. Matthew Glyn, I'm the owner of 485 Ashmont. Tim Johnson, architect 590, Broadway, South Boston. I met him, Chair, members of the board. The five unit building at 485 Ashmont Street was approved by the board on January 29th of this year. I'll have the project started as an eight unit building under an ERT application. The approved project is a four unit addition to a single family dwelling. So the total is five units now? Yes, Madam Chair. So this is to confirm that in fact, the project is a five unit development. Yes, under a different permit type, an ALT. Under an ALT. And what would have had any of the violations been eliminated or decreased? Yes, Madam Chair. We've decreased from eight to five with no new violations. But have the violations that we approved have they been decreased in a way? Yes, Madam Chair. The original eight, yes. The original eight violations that you approved on January 29th, we have reduced to five under the new ALT application that ISU is requesting that this project is clarified as. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? And I know Mr. Kendell, you've looked at the plans already. My apologies for not checking in with you. Following the next case is for G-Cod. Following BOA 1020716, 21 Hudson Street. There's a new amendment to erect a one-story edition in the rear and expand the existing First Floor Restaurant. The violation is Article 32 Section 4. This is in the G-Cod opportunity. Name and address for the record please. Hi, Bonnie Tien from 16 Chesterfield Street, Rebo. On behalf of the client David Schum at 1921, 23 Hudson Street. Thank you, Christian. The morning Madam Chair, members of the Board, Christian Seminelli-Boss and Grownwood are trusted and we do have the BWSE approval letter. We also have the letter out of hand. May I have a motion please? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the next case for G-Cod. Calling BOA 102121218 Union Park. This is a change of auction for three families dwelling to a single family dwelling. We move all existing interior. The petition is to install new Floor Joyce, new mechanicals. The violation is Article 32 Section 4. This is in the G-Cod applicability. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. Mark LeCasla 75 Arlington Street in Boston. Attorney for the homeowners. This is a requested change occupancy from a three family to a single family and a complete gut renovation of the property, which requires a G-Cod. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Christian Seminelli-Boss and Grownwood are trusted and we do have the BWSE approval letter as well for this. Madam Chair, we also have the letter. May I have a motion please? Motion approved. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling BOA 1018939318 Nubri Street. This project is an interior fiddle with new storefront, HVAC all mechanical. The violation is Article 32 Section 9. This is in the G-Cod enforcement. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. Dawn Weiss with the Dane Torbifirm. 745 Atlantic Avenue here in Boston with music. Richard Zipola, engineer. Thank you. Christian? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Christian Seminelli-Boss and Grownwood are trusted and we have the BWSE approval letter. Madam Chair, we also have the letter. Okay, may I have a motion? Motion approved. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good morning, Mr. Zipola. Calling BOA 1019334 200 to 202 Ipswich Street. This is a direct eight story maximum height, 90 feet, 105,000 square foot building, 184 room hotel, with ground floor restaurant, 82 parking spaces, and one below grade level. The violation is Article 32 Section 32-4. This is under the Groundwater Conservation G-Cod. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. Dawn Weiss with the Dane Torbifirm. 745 Atlantic Avenue. Is this approved previously? It was not. It was on the schedule before, but because it had not gone to the BPDA, it was deferred and then refiled. So it didn't need any other relief? That's correct. Okay. Question? Madam Chair, members of the Board, Christian Seminelli-Bossing-Rona Trust. We do have the Bureau of the SC approval letter which was updated last evening to reflect the 1.25 inch capture or crime for this project per the BPDA's recommendation for recharge for projects of this size, which is 100,000 square feet or more. And we also have the No Harm Letter for this project as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, we also have the letter from Boston, Juana. May I have a motion please? Motion for approval. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all sector left. I'm going to call the 930 hearings. Are there any deferrals with Drowals for 930? 60 Stanley Street. Well, the record calling B-O-A, 1-0, 0-0, 0-5, 2-1, 16 Stanley Street. Name and address, Phil the record, please. Madam Chair, the music will turn to the small. This is just a two-one. That's a real thing. How do you request the council? Question. The Bureau of the SCO, the Bureau of the SCO, the Bureau of the SCO, the change in the plans and interior. The violations do not change. The reduced event on count took the beginning phase out for the beginning phase out. So the event on count was a new cycle into that. And the parent was saying, the smallest event had a chance from you. OK. May I have a motion, please? Motion for deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. We have a date of February 4th. They see you on February 4th at 1130. Are there any other deferrals with Drowals? Council address, please? The address. 3060 St. and 3840 St. and Hyper for the record calling B-O-A, 1-0-1-8347, 36-40 St. Companion case B-O-A, 1-0-1-835-0, 38-40 St. Name and address for the record. Turn to John Pelligini, 10-4-Bs. Road, Brain Tree. Tell us why you're requesting a deferral. It's a, with an accurate advertisement. So the number of units were not advertised correctly. So we just had to have that correct. Can I have a motion, please? Motion, I defer. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? We have February 4th. February 4th at 1130. We can do the last January. We can do the last January if you have it. January 28th. January 28th at 1130. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals with Drowals for 930? Hearing none, I'll call the first case. Calling B-O-A, 1-0-1-9-0-1-1-22 to 24 Woodbine Street. This is the combined parcels, and to become one lot, and rect a 4-family townhouse style on a vacant lot. The violation is Article 50, Section 41. Osterie parking screening, buffering 5 feet minimum. Article 50, Section 28. A 4 unit townhouse used as a conditional use. Article 50, Section 29. Lot width, minimum required, is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, lot frontage, minimum is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. The floor-dead ratio is excessive. Article 50, Section 29. Laudierre for additional units is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. Usable open spaces is insufficient. Article 50, Section 20 on the front yard. Setback is insufficient. Article 50, Section 29. Side yard setback is insufficient. And Article 50, Section 29. The rear yard setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record place. Morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, 20, go to small. Business, just 51 stops for road branch. You're masked. We just stepped out on our mission. Right now. She wants to. Now go ahead. We're here today seeking relief to the environment process and erect four family townhouse style units on the vacant lot. The zoning subject is a 3 F 4000. A lot area is 7,584 square feet. Running violations are as follows. It's a condition of the four unit townhouse style is a conditional use. The lot width we are combining the lots, the requirement is 45 feet. But the combination of the lots, that's a different set point. I think that violation was. Incorrectly cited here. So therefore frontage should be good. Exactly. Okay. We've got to the FAR. The required FAR is 0.8. We are proposing 1.13. Okay. And then tell us about the parking and the parking. We have one parking space per unit. And what's required? 1.5. 1.5. So that means you'd have to have five spaces. That's correct. And there's no way of to accommodate the fifth. No. Okay. The front yard violation of requirements 20 feet. We have 10. Is that modal? There's modal. Side yard requirement is 10 feet. We have 8 on one side and 34 on the other side with the parking and the driveway. The rear yard setback requirement is 30 feet. We have 14.5. That's what we're proposing. Okay. How much area we did having the party's meeting? Hold on. I can mayor's office will give us all that information. That's right. How are the plans to secondale? The drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. My name is Jessica Thomas with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We conducted an embudder's meeting and also they met with the neighborhood group several times. We like to go and record to support the project. Right now, it's currently a vacant lot. Neighbors express that it's currently an eye sore. There's also two units, six unit buildings at three dash five would bind street. So it seems to fit with the character of the neighborhood as well. And again, we like to want record to support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Partique du Bay from the Office of City Council Kim Jenny. Our office would like to go on record and opposition to the proposal based on concerns raised by the nine streets United Neighborhood Association and project. Right. So regarding the design, not matching other homes in the neighborhood, the number of units and excessive. The number of units is excessive for a size of this lot. The parking plan does not lend itself to use by the owners. I'm sorry. What was the third point? One was design. One was the excess excessiveness. What was the third one? The third one was the parking plan for the property does not lend itself to use by the owners. Okay. The flat roof lend itself to concerns regarding stability and snow accumulation during winter months. And insufficient green space. Okay. Thank you. No problem. Madam Chair, members of the boy, Jessica, or Jorgas from City Council, at large, and he says I'd be George's office. And she would also like to go on record and opposition. Thank you. Given that information, may I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion to deny without prejudice. I'd like to see a plan. I'm looking at the BRAs recommendation too. And I was just thinking that a lot of these issues that have been raised could be addressed through design review. And so may I have, so I think that's something. I'm looking at the building adjacent to this parcel. Yeah. I mean, it's a nicely designed townhouse style building with parking around the rear. It looks like a nice setback from the street. Do we have any idea how far that setback is? It's hard for us for me to tell, but is that 10 feet or is that within the 20 feet? That's not an old plan. I just see the speed in the motorway coming right up. Yeah, because he's coming in with the motor. Okay. So, a council, do you have handouts for us to better understand what's being proposed? I do. I have to say the acoustics in here are so much better. Almost feels like people are shouting at us. You don't want to do that. Thank you. It sounds good. We were struggling to hear. That's nice. Thank you. Thank you. One of the representatives brought up, it doesn't look like the building doesn't look like it's in the community. They're on Woodbine Street as the mayor's office said. There are several apartment buildings across the street. This is in Vine Street? No, Woodbine. Woodbine, sorry. That's okay. And then the next two at what? Mr. Jero is just talking about was a two, a split two blacks that was just recently done. It was done very nicely. And the owner of that property is the owner of this property as well. That's why I'm a little confused. It doesn't fit the character of the neighborhood? I think we think that it does. We think it lends itself to what's going on in the neighborhood. I mean, there are some with the Mansard roots as the one next to it. There are some pitch roots. There are some flat roots. There are multi-planings. It's a very, very kind of housing type. That's correct. Okay. I mean, most of the buildings at two stories, you have to propose, I don't know, that's three. Yeah. Okay, we do have the letter of support and one letter of opposition. Okay, may I have a motion, please? I'm sure I think there is an motion on the table. Yeah. Are you going to go with that motion? Are you going to withdraw that motion? Yeah, I'd like to see some. Well, oh, motion approve providing. There is BPD a design review. And I'd like to see durable exterior materials. How's that going to motion? All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? And please, Derek. Sorry. Derek and Jeff robust, please. Okay. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-982-435-198 Woodrow Avenue. This is a rectory three-story three-family dwelling on existing vacant lot. Violations are Article 60 Section 40, Austria parking design and maneuverability. Article 60 Section 41, conformity within existing building alignment. Article 60 Section 9, the light area is insufficient. Article 60 Section 9, the Florida air ratio is excessive. Article 60 Section 9, the usable open space is insufficient. Article 60 Section 9, the front yard is insufficient. And Article 60 Section 9, the side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. One amount of chair members of the board are turning. They're small. This is a dress up for $1.00 of the World Rentry Mass. That's it. Yeah, go ahead. We are here today seeking relief to erect a three-family dwelling on a vacant lot with three parking spaces. The only sub district is 3F6000. The lot area is 5,500 and 57 is Griffey. Violations are in Sparrow. Austria parking maneuverability, we have three spaces in the rear. Conformity with existing building alignment. We are doing the model. We are lining it up with the other houses on the street. And the lot area, as I said, requirement, or we have it, 5,500, 57 is Griffey. Require an FAR is 0.8. We are proposing 0.93. The front yard setback is 10 feet. We are proposing 8. Side yard requirement is 10 feet. We have 7 on one side and 22 on the other. So this is an oddly shaped lock, then. Yes, it is. It's not a regular rectangular lot. That's correct. So you are proposing to have your driveway on one end of the building, three parking spaces in the rear. That is correct. That driveway is existing as well. There is no living space in the basement. And tell us about the bedrooms. Three bedrooms. Three bedrooms. It's going to have bass and a unit is approximately 1,600 square feet. 1,600 square feet. Good size rooms. Is there a roof deck proposed? No, there's not. Mr. Domingo, this looks like, can you just check if the maneuverability works? Does it work? Yes, Madam Chair Lady, members of the Board of the Board of the MECO BTD. I have checked it. It's a little tight, but it works. How the plans, Mr. Kendell? Drone jetticoot. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Whitney Celestin with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We had a no butters meeting for this project. And the only issue on this property was between 1998 and 200. There is a small, tiny sliver with a tree on it. The neighbors were very upset about that piece. And there is an argument about ownership. But we'd like to support this project, and we hope that they can work it out amongst neighbors. Thank you. We're keeping that tree. Madam Chair, members of the Board, Dustin Gardner, behalf of City Councilor Andrea Kames Office. We'd also like to go and record in support. Thank you. Hello, my name is Pierre Ellie. I'm actually the owner of 200 Woodrow. I am not in support with the findings. You're in opposition of this proposal? I am in a position. Okay. This will happen at the owner. It's a state that 8 feet of my property belongs to him. That gets resolved in land court. It doesn't get resolved here. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else here to speak in opposition? For the record, did you say that that tree will be maintained? Yes. Okay. So let's just see. May I have a motion, please? I think a motion to approve a continued BPDA design review. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set for that. I'm sorry. I must have a chair. Members of the board have a good day. Call in the next case. Calling VO8102-0294-1301-Bluehill Avenue. This is a demo and existing building located at the end of 1261-1299-Bluehillab and constructing a new mix used building at 1301-Bluehillab by combining two lots into one lot. The violation is Article 60, Section 16. Coffee shop take out restaurant is conditional. Article 60, Section 17. Lodioire for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 60, Section 17. The Flodioire ratio is excessive. Article 60, Section 17. The height is excessive. Article 60, Section 17. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 60, Section 17. The front yard setback is insufficient. Article 60, Section 17. The side yard setback is insufficient. Article 60, Section 17. The rear yard setback is insufficient. The oriented party is insufficient. The technical不是 bill and yet the stands for transaction between Article 66 and Section 39. Article 60, Section 37, the encyclopedia has to be пока to parking. 16,476 square feet. I'm sorry, it's, what's the lock size again? 16,476 square feet. Okay. The proposal is to build a new five-story mixed-use building. There'll be 39 residential rental units, three ground floor commercial spaces, and 40 parking spots. The village zoning violations coffee shop is a conditional use. We really weren't going to put in what the use was to that space, but Mark Joseph at Ioste suggests that we did, so that's where that came from. And do you have a vendor for it? We're working, not only through the community process, or actually trying to work with a local vendor, to see if we can get somebody in the neighborhood. And so for today, it's just to have a coffee shop, not for takeout. Exactly. Okay. FAR in this neighborhood, one is allowed. We're at 2.67 height, 35 feet is allowed. We're at 49.9 feet. Side yard, 7.5. We're at 8. We're at 20. We're at 8. And parking would be required, would be 44. We're at 40. That being said, it should be noted that this proposal underwent an article 80 review, and has been designated, has been designed in accordance with the city's compact living policy. That BPDA approval was back in October. So tell us about the unit count for the unit sizes. As I stated, there's, this is a compact living. So the one bedroom, one baths of 555 square feet, two bedrooms, one bath, between 805 and 825 square feet. Three bedroom, one bath is 930 square feet. And this went through a very long community process. And I've, you guys, in the handout that I provided to the board, I provided a letter of support from Representative Russell Holmes, who... So let me ask you. So these are compact. Are you proposing any shared spaces? We have. For the residents of this building? In addition to the, yes, and also we have designated that shared space also to be allowed to be used by the civic organizations in the neighborhood on a reservation basis. And so the designated shared space is it programmed in any way? Is it fitted out in any way? Or is it just space? It's shown on the second floor plan, which is a 1.2, it's in the center of the building. And what we've got is a multi-use space. So it serves as essentially the living room for the building near the elevator, as well as it's space that can be reserved by community groups that they wanted to have a meeting there. It's adjacent to a common outdoor deck that's for 50 square feet. In addition, we have storage units throughout the building that are supplementing the storage that may be in a larger unit. So for instance, storage and the lobby for packages, and then there's some storage units on each floor through the building. And how many of these units are affordable? The designation actually is they will be five of the units will be affordable units. And what percentage? So 70% AMI. I have some questions about the commercial space. So you have a coffee shop identified for one of the spaces and then you have two more spaces. Is it 14, 15 square feet for the middle space and then 4, 45 for the other space? Am I reading that correctly? So if you started on the left of the building, the area that we would call a coffee shop is 890 square feet. The central commercial space is 14, 15 square feet. And then the smaller one to the right is 445 square feet. And the only spot that you have identified right now for one is the coffee shop. Correct. Correct. We went to the community process. That was something that the neighborhood was interested in. As I stated earlier to Madam Chair, we were waiting for our refusal letter. We have a conversation with Mark Joseph. And he said he would like us to list the designation as to what that use would be. And we put down coffee shop. It may turn into something else. But we've also talked about doing some Aladdin studios or something. And those are also divisible. So if there was something bigger, we could merge those two things. But neighborhood shopping allows those activities. Exactly. Yes. It's the coffee shop that's a condition. Conditional use, correct? OK. No. Go ahead. And loading for the other two. So those are unknown. So if they're going to need deliveries, is there loading off the street for those? There is. So inside the garage, you can pull down. And there can be loading there for the house. And it's hot, tall enough for delivery vehicles? Yes. Like you, yes. Now we go. OK. Thank you. And this is an elevator building. OK. I'm looking at the rendering on C5. Is it the CS2? Yes. Yeah. It looks like you're pretty close to the property line next to Fugal. The question becomes, what happens should Fugal get developed to all those windows at that property line? People will. It's currently the same ownership for the entire block. I don't know. But sometimes people sell properties. You know, that might possibly happen. So how will those units be protected in the future? I would imagine there would have to be some sort of step back on that side of the building between that to your point, because it becomes a fire issue, too, if you're building so far. So your side yard set back, did you say it was eight feet? Eight is required, and you're providing 7.5. Side yard 7.5, and eight is proposed, correct? And eight is proposed. OK, so you're within that side yard requirement. And does it look like you have a window? So are these balconies on the front of the building? Yes. I'm very inexplicable. OK. No, they are they recessed or they protruding out? So both of them recessed in five feet, and they project out a foot. Project out a foot. OK. And how are the plants, the condo? Any questions from the board? Any more questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Ms. Othabord. Whitney Celeste and with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I've attended the public meeting with the BPDA, who hosted it for this property. And I've seen this property work it out with the neighborhood groups, including the Greater Matter Pendinghood Council and the Wellington Hill Association who are all in discussion with the proponents. We'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and Board. Patricia Whitehead from Wellington Hill Neighborhood Association. We are in support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, I'm Mike Perez with the Carpenters Union. And behalf of all, we're both at races. We want to go and record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Again, Demar with the Boston Planning and Development Agency. We are in support of this project. I just wanted to give you a little bit of background. On March 29th, the proponent filed a small project review with us on May 15th, 2019, the BPDA sponsored a public meeting at the Matterpan branch of the Boston Public Library. The initial comment period was set to conclude on May 17th, but was extended several times and concluded July 22nd, 2019. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion approve. You guys still need design review? Yes. But BPDA design review. Is there a second? All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion approve. Thank you. Following the next case, calling Bill. Jeff? And John, again, it looks like that's a solid garage door. If you can make sure that it's less, it's more permeable. And it protects pedestrians so that there's some auditory or visual indication that a car is exiting away from the site. Absolutely. Everyone have a nice holidays. Thank you. Following the next case, calling BOA995, 695, 142 Pleasant Street. This is a constructed nine unit, three-story plus basement fully-spinced, multi-family apartment building, including a group one accessible unit on the first floor, including four-space covered parking lot in the rear, in demolition of an existing one-story garage repair shop. The violation is Article 65, Section 41. Off-street parking and loader inquiry, I'm proposed parking is insufficient. Article 65, Section 8. The multi-family resident is a forbidden use in a 3FD 3000 district. Article 65, Section 9. A main entrance must face the front lot line. Article 65, Section 9. The additional lot of areas is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. The fluidity ratio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 65, Section 9. The radiod is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney X Azula, McDermott, Coltty and Miller. 28 State Street, Suite 802 here in Austin with me to my right is Derek Rubinoff from Derek Rubinoff Architects. We also have Jason Weissman and Kevin Capola from the developer entity sitting behind me as well. We passed out some presentation materials for the board's review, including revised plans for the proposed project. These plans are in front of the board today. They were reviewed by ISD and submitted on nine for the boards review today. I would note that as a result of these revised plans, we do require one less zoning variance, which is for Article 65, Section 9. The main entrance must face front lot line. In your handout, we also have a memorandum, which has a zoning chart, overview, substantial project modifications that were made during the community outreach process the zoning chart for the boards review is on page five of that memo. Finally, at tab three, we have provided letters of support for the proposed project. So, police, can you talk us through it? Sure. Those letters, if I may, do include the Jones Hill Association as well as over 20 letters of support, including from director butters. The property itself is about 4,689 square feet located at 142 Pleasant. It's at the corner of Pleasant and Road Street in the Jones Hill neighborhood of Dorchester. It's the existing home, as you can see, from the existing photos of a motorcycle repair shop. That's an existing non-conformity in the residential sub district. This is a 3 FD 3000. So, the auto body shop is an existing non-conformity. Again, as you can see from those existing photos, overgrown, barbed wire tires strewn about property, not a very pleasant environment. We would submit to the board, so we would suggest that that's out of place with the current and future residential context of this. Okay, so this is a 3 FD means triple decker, 3000 square feet. So, let's talk through it. So, the project proposes to demolish that garage building and construct a new three-story residential building with eight residential units and related site upgrades, as well as covered parking at the rear for six vehicles. There will also be one of those units, will be a group one accessible three-bed remunet on the first floor. And what we're proposing to do is remove this auto body shop use basically removing a noxious smelly, noxious vehicle. Let's just move on to what's being proposed. Yes, because it's non-conforming, we know that. We want to see what the future plans hold for this. So, the proposal is again, for a three-story, building with eight units and six parking spaces. Those eight units, the proposal includes five one beds and three three beds. That is a direct result of the community outreach process and discussions with Joan Cillis, as well as Columbia-Sab and Hill Civic Association, which we work closely with on this project. What's the average square feet for the one bed and for the three beds? Yes, ma'am. So, the three beds are 984 square feet, 1,05 square feet in that accessible unit is a little larger. It's 1,115 square feet on the ground floor. The one beds are anywhere from 625 square feet up to 715 square feet. This is within a half mile of the Seven Hill MBTA station. So, those unit sizes are in line with the EPA policy on the community sizes. Okay. As far as zoning relief is concerned, if you'd like me to go through that after the do-so. Again, we no longer need that main entry facing the lot line because it's part of the outreach process. We configured the building. The building entryway originally was facing road street, which is at the corner. We reconfigured it in consideration of community feedback and now it's facing pleasant. The other six items of zoning relief as Mr. Secretary read out, the first is a multi-family dwelling. It's a forbidden use in the 3 FD 3000 sub-district. We would suggest that this MFR uses much more conforming in this area than in an auto body shop. Let's talk about the zoning. Yeah. Additionally, just as to why the multi-family uses this... No, I think what, because I've always been kind of the triple deco zoning is just a very special kind of zoning. And so I just kind of was interested in how this varies from it. How does it actually reflect what the design, the old designs were or things like that? So it actually comports what the buildings around it. All three abouting buildings are more than a triple deco. There's a six unit behind it, a six unit on the other side of Roach and a nine unit next to it. So this actually would be in that ballpark of what's in the immediate context. Now there are obviously our triple deco's up and down pleasant in across, but this initial, this little corner here has been built up to larger than triple deco's. Article 65, section nine, lot area insufficient. What's required is 13,500 square feet for the eight units. And this is a little under 5,000 square foot lot. Floor area ratio allowed is 1.3. And we're actually proposing 1.47. So a slight overage on the FAR, which is approximately 800 square feet over the allowable FAR. Usable open space and sufficient required is 300 square feet. And we're proposing 100 square feet per unit. Based on the size of a lot in the corner, the corner locations difficult to site open space as well as parking, which is why we're asking for the relief on that variance. Rear yard and sufficient, what's required is 15 feet. And what we're proposing is 10 feet. And that's what our butters at 20 to 24 roach. So we are noncompliant by only five feet. In the off street parking and sufficient mapping chair, requirement for six units at this location is 10 spaces. And we're proposing six spaces. However, we are within short walking distance of 7,000 MBTA. We are less than a mile from up in corner commuter rail, the 18 bus on .ab. And I would also like to note for the record that, because this is an auto body repair shop, we are actually proposing to close a 37 foot curb cut at the corner of Pleasant and Roach, where there's garage base, which will add two to three on street parking spaces. We are also proposing to reduce the curb cut on Pleasant's on Roach Street from 26 feet to 12 feet, which we also add another parking space. Are you proposing a roof deck? We are not. You know, no roof decks, but you have unit decks. We do have small unit decks in order to allow for some open space. Again, based on the square footage of the parcel, it's just tough to locate open space. Even if we did the triple deck around this, we should be efficient on open space and parking would be difficult. And this is a walk up or? It is a walk up. Yeah, it is a walk up. Yeah, it is a walk up. That's why the accessible unit, which is being proposed on the ground floor. We are also proposing an accessible space right outside the rear entry of this accessible unit. And the accessible unit will actually have a private entry from that rear lot, so they do not have to go all the way around. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Khandel? Drung out. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Patrick Fandell, mayors, office and neighborhood services. This went through an extensive community process, including in a butters meeting. And several meetings with the Columbia Savon Hill Civic Association. The applicants worked pretty hard to work with a lot of the neighborhood concerns, including unit count and design. We would just ask for continued BPDA designer view on this, but we'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council, Frank Baker's office. We'd like to echo the sentiments of the mayor's office who won record and support. Thank you. My name is Josh Bloomberg, a go-and-er of 137 Pleasant Street directly across the street from 142 Pleasant. I'd like to go on record and support. You really can't enter or exit my property without staring the repair garage, and just kind of staring right at you. And looking forward to a big improvement there. So, I'd like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion will approve of BPDA designer view. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries are all set. Good luck. All right, much more time. Happy Halloween. Calling B-O-A, 972, 669, 32 to 34 Tolman Street. Just to build a dormer and rebuild the front porch and extend living space into the basement. The violation of Article 65, Section 42. Informally when the existing building alignment, Article 65, Section 9, the Floody Aracio is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building height is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the building height is excessive in stories. Article 65, Section 9, the front yard isn't sufficient. An Article 9, Section 1, extensive and not conforming use. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name's Jim Chen, 585 Washington Street, Quincy. Here with me is the property owner who lea of 34 Tolman Street. So tell us first, is this a one or two family dwelling? It's currently a three family, you know? Is a three family, okay? And it's a legal three family? It's a legal three family. So tell us what's being proposed. The owner is seeking to extend the living space down to the basement and propose to build a dormer under third floor. So the basement will be one unit. First floor will be another unit. And well, first floor is gonna be another unit. Second and third will be the third unit. Okay, and tell us about the basement. First, what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? Seven foot six. Seven foot six, and is there bedrooms or anything like that proposed for that basement space? It's gonna be two bedroom proposed and one bathroom. Two bedrooms, one bath in the basement. And okay, and are the utilities where are the utilities for the entire building? Are they accessed separately? Separately, yes, that's correct. In other words, there's a separate door that leads to the utilities that you don't have to walk through somebody's unit. The gas meter is actually in the basement where it's not a, will not be accessible by the common area. So it's through somebody's unit? This has to do through the basement unit. Unless we relocated to the exterior. And okay, tell us about the dormer. The dormer. Hi, I want to get the dormers because the house, I want to make a uniform from the other side. And it increase a little bit extra head height for the dirt floor because with the art, the cave roof, the dirt floor height is very low. Okay, how would the plan, Mr. Kendell? There's nothing trying out for the basement. There's nothing on the basement? And then there's no stamp coming out. So I need a motion for the furrow. Motion, a defer. Zero second. All those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? The date, please. For the fourth. For the fourth at 1130, please make sure we have a full set of plans. Okay. Calling an ex-case, calling P.O.A. 995-6000-82-Military. This is constructing a new dormer at the attic level of an existing house. Extend living space, new bathroom, new bedroom. Remove chimney roof to the basement. Can the applicants please be our onto the next case? And Mr. Kendell, we need his attention. Go ahead. Violation, Article 65, Section 9. The building height, number of stories is excessive. Article 65, Section 9, the side yacht is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, everyone. Andrew Hale, 82 Millets Street and Doorchester. Okay. And tell us, is this a one or two family? This is a single family. It's a single family and owner occupied? Yes, ma'am. I used to tell us what you're proposing to do. Sure. We're proposing to put a bathroom on the third floor. We currently just have one full bath on the second floor, and a growing family and my mother living with us. So we're trying to just ease up some of the pressure on the shower. Okay. And so to do that, we're putting in the bathroom. And then we're also where there's currently kind of this attic space we're putting in a dormer to make that livable. I have plans. I was about to have the plans, Mr. Kendell. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman. Members of the board, Christine Bernay-O-Mirror's Office, and they have a services we'd like to go on record and support. We have no butters meetings. We have no questions or comments, like a concerns at this time. Thank you. Madam Chairman, is the board, Dustin Gardner, we have City Councilor Andre, a Campbell's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Anybody here to speak in opposition? We may have a motion, please. Motion to approve. Second. A no design review, Mr. Kendell. Motion to approve, BPDA design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling an ex-case, calling BOA101429325 Hill Street. This is to erect a new gymnasium shown as building three in a free standing sign for Boston Trinity Academy. We're an interior renovation to 17 Hill Street. The violation is Article 69, Section 28, a free standing sign, a conditional. Article 69, Section 8, Ancillary use of gymnasium is conditional. An Article 69, Section 9, the Fluteier ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Sean Breyer, a law firm of Hackett Feinberg, 155 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts, appearing on behalf of the Project Opponent, Boston Trinity Academy. To my immediate right is the school's headmaster, Frank Guerra. I'm also joined by Christian Strom of Jones Architecture, the Project Architect, as well as some other representatives of Boston Trinity Academy. So can you please describe what's, we know the school. So describe what's happening on this property. School is proposing to erect a gymnasium, which would be a free standing building located on the same site as the current school. It's on the same site, even though it's called an Ancillary Building. Ancillary is usually on a different lot. So, do you have any drawing? We do. So it's important to note that the school owns both the property directly across the street. So this is the proposed building here. Existing school is shown here. The school owns both this tract of land here, which is separated by the private way, Braeburn, as well as this tract over here. You just stick that back in. Just like, sorry. Sorry about that. I just don't go down that far. Okay, so that's the gymnasium. Looks like you have a steep slope in the rear. Correct. And so that's why you've fronted it on to hail. Okay, so it's because it's on a separate lot. Okay. What's the free standing sign? This is a Christian's from the project. Architech, he can show you the plan that has the sign. It's just a small sign with the name of the school at the corner of Gordon and Child Street. What's the dimensions? It's about 30 inches by nine feet. 30 inches by nine feet. How tall will the sign be? So how long? How tall are the footings? It's not fully designed. Sorry, but we're looking at our fan site is about it. It's four feet, so we don't want to be above the fan. So it'll be the next four feet high at that corner. And will it be permanently lighted, or is it just a flat, flat board? Okay. What are the materials that you're going to use? Metals. Okay. Probably scale. Would just like a screen printing on it or? No, I think in all of it would have better handoff plenary. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Chandel? Drone's adequate. Any additional questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Brian Flynn with the May's Office and Navalist Services, representing HydePack. Our office wants to go on record and full support of this proposal. There was a lengthy community process. And the administration did an excellent job in terms of reaching out to the community. Under the headmaster, Frank Getta, including Danny Tao and Georgina De Cruz. They did an excellent job. We held several meetings. And there was no real vehement opposition from the community at all. Dave, the Trinity Academy actually has a very competitive basketball program. So we feel that the gymnasium will be a wonderful asset for the children. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jessica, your guest in the City Council at large in East Sideview, Georgia's office. Council would also like to go on record and support it. And she has also submitted a letter into the record. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan, on behalf of the City Council, last Michael Flarey, Council of Ditto and Rec and Support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, mine operates with a car up in Tercini. We'd like to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Madam Chair, person, board, my name's Tom Johnston. I live at 50 Ainsworth Street. I'm speaking as a parent in a community member. The Ainsworth is not in vicinity. It's so. That's all my parent of a student. I attended all the community meetings. And what's still for me, and I think should be noted here, was the members of the immediate community who supported the proposal, who have no affiliation with the school at all. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve a PPA design review. Second, I'm voting. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling VOA 101434717 George Street. This is erected three family home. The violation is Article 69, Section 9. The Lardier, a traditional dwelling unit, is insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the Claudia ratio is excessive. Article 69, Section 9, usable open spaces, insufficient. Article 69, Section 9, the high requirement is insufficient in the stories. And Article 69, Section 8, the three family dwelling used for a bid. Amen, Adjus, for the rectification. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Derek Joyner. Join the development, 119B, Rentham Street, Boston, Mass. I'm here today on behalf of proposing to build, or erect a three family in the Hypoch district area. It's a 2F 5000. The lot is 6,544 square feet. And the violations are... So what's the lot size? 6,544 square feet. And is there a single family on it currently? Yes. OK. And so you're proposing to demolish that? Yes. OK. And for what reason? The house is abandoned. And it's been abandoned for quite some times. And the neighbors were very happy with my proposal to demolish it and erect a three family in this area. OK. So tell us about this proposal. Tell us about the unit sizes. The unit sizes are 1,627 square feet for unit number 1. There are three bedrooms, two baths. Unit 2 is three bedrooms, two baths, and 1,620 square feet. And unit 3 is three bedrooms, two baths, 1,467 square feet. It is... How are you proposing parking for this? Yes. Three parking spots, one parking spot per unit. And... Is that in the rear of the building? Yes. OK. Let's just see. So it's a forbidden use. What's the zoning requirement on FAR? The FAR is 0.5. And we're at 0.721. The usable open space is 5,250 square feet. That's 1,750 per unit. And we're at 3,600 square feet. And the height requirement is insufficient. It's 2.5. And we're at three stories. But I'd like to note that the third story is a gable roof, as well as a dormant. So it blends in with the rest of the properties on that tree in the neighborhood. And is this going to be a stick belt? Yes. OK. Let's see. And is there any living space in the basement? No. The basement would be used for mechanical and storage. Any roof deck? No roof deck. Of course, it's a gable. How are the plans with the condo? On the point. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Brian Flynn with the Mayors Office Enabled Services, representing Hyde Pock. We want to go on record and support of this proposal. And about his being was held with no opposition from the community. The applicable civic association is the East River Civic Association. And they had no opposition to the proposal as well. Majority of that area is two family and three families. So we feel that it does fit well with the aesthetic of the surrounding area. So we want to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with GPDA design review. Very unique. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second. Good luck. Thank you. Those one more case left for 930. I'm going to call 1030s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? Councilor Address, please? 22 Wadsworth Street. Can you come and sit up here, please? For the record calling, BOA 966-339-22 Wadsworth Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Lariance Gatina with the Business Address of 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. We're here today seeking a deferral for 22 Wadsworth Street in order to be able to work with the director by the little bit more. May I have a motion, please? Motion for general? Is there a second? Sorry. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? We have a date of February 4th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Address, sir? 362, Princess Street. Morning, Madam Chair. Hold on a second, sir. Good, hold on, sir. The calling for the record, calling BOA 985-474-362 Princess Street. There is a companion case. BOA 985-475-362 Princess Street. Name an address for the record, please. Name is Scott Holmes. I'm attorney just recently retained by Brian Foley and Jeffrey Strom, who are the owners of the property. And I am seeking a deferral at this time because we need work. We need to do certain things. We met with the ISD with Frank DeModel last week to get a better understanding of what the surecomings are. And we just need additional time to rectify that. How far do you think? As the most time, do you think you need? You've been saying February 4th. Can I do end of February? I had February 25th. Hold on. May I have a motion, please? We have a guest. Motion. Motion had deferred. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? We do February 25th, but we can do March 10th. March 10th would be a breathing room. The motion for March 10th. OK, let's see you March 10th at 1130. Appreciate your courtesy. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals with travels for 1030? Address, please? 138 Trenton Street. Will the record calling BOA 1003594138 Trenton Street? Name an address for the record, please. Corey Kelleher. The address of the company owned. Yeah, you deferring? Yeah. It's 185 Dean Street, Norwood, Matt. Oh, so you don't live in the house? No. OK. So this is a request for what reason? We have another case coming. And I'd like to defer so that board can hear both cases at once. Are they next to each other or? The same property. It's the same property. OK, do you know what date that scheduled for? Do you know what date it is? No, I don't. I don't think we'd have no idea what it would be. So can we have these deferred, but we'll advertise them together? OK, what's the deferral? Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. These will be re-advertised. OK. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals with your hours? House or address, please? 75G Street. Full the record. I'm sorry. 75, what? G. OK, the last case. Calling B089073175G Street. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Matt Eccle, I'm an attorney with Derego in Tuscano. The address of 15 Broad Street here in Boston. I was advised this would be administrative deferral because it was advertised incorrectly. It was advised to be re-advertised for January 28th. OK. We have a deal. I'm sorry. Put on the agenda for January 28th. We have it on the agenda. I'm sorry. Monday to call in. And what time? The motion has been for postponement to January 28th at 11.30. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Please. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals? Address there. One for you. East Berkeley Street. It's up for a rediscussion. Not until that. Can't call it to 11.30. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 10.30? Hearing none, I'll call the last case for 9.30. What is? You said rediscussion. You said rediscussion. Oh, OK. Sorry, sir. So case me away, 957, 9113, 140 to 140, East Berkeley Street. Name an address for the record, please. Tony Sean Breer, law firm of Hackett Feinberg, representing the project applicant, Ming's Market. As was the case a few months ago when we were waiting the appellate decision of the appeals court, we did get that decision in the interim, but that case has been further applied for further appellate review by the SJC. So unfortunately, the ongoing litigation between the owner and the tenant has not yet been resolved, which makes this appeal difficult to pursue at this time. How many deferrals have he had so far? One. Does it make sense for you to continue deferrals or reapply? The applicant is desirous of getting a deferral rather than a withdrawal, hopefully avoiding having back. He wants to have his toe in the water, OK? And how long do you work as a federal court? Is this month? I think we wait at least 75 days, but at the will of the board after that. May I have a motion, please? Motion for deferral. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The date, please. We can do April 7 to April 28. April 7. April 7. April 7. April 7, 10, 11, 30. Thank you very much. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 10, 30? Hearing none, I go back to the last case for 9, 30. Calling B-O-A-101, 4, 8, 1, 5, 67, floor entry. This is a third floor renovation. Two bedrooms, one bathroom, a small dorm room for a headroom, over staircase and third floor. Replace into two-story decks and roof renovation of the bearing wall on the second floor. The violation is Article 67, Section 9. The building height is excessive in feet. Article 67, Section 9. The front yard is insufficient. And Article 67, Section 9. Side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, David Collins, the property owner. So tell us what's being proposed? So I'm adding two bedrooms, or I'd like to add two bedrooms on the third floor. There's plenty of space on the lot, but there's no way to get up to the third floor. So I'm adding a staircase if possible. That's what I need the dormer for. I gotta write down. But it's not changing the pitch of the roof. I mean, it's changing the pitch. It's not changing the peak of the roof, which just comes off the peak. And so this is a two family. It is. Is there any dwelling space in the basement? There is not, I don't know. OK. Yes. And then what will be the number of bedrooms in this second unit, the second and third floor unit? There will be four bedrooms, two bathrooms. Two bedrooms, four bedrooms, two bathrooms. Yes. OK. And just I remind everybody that they cannot be more than four unrelated individuals in a building. OK. OK. How are the plans? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe Covenger from the Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and record and support this proposal. We've completed the community process on November 6, 2019. At that time, we received no opposition from the community. And we believe this project is not large and won't hinder the abutters in the neighborhood surrounding neighborhood. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. With BPD design review? No. OK. It's only for the staircase. OK. It's a motion to approve. Second. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. It's time. You're all set. The board will take a 10 minute break and we'll reconvene at 11 o'clock. I can't slide. Good on you. I think that's why I put the yellow ones. I like this very much better. I feel it. We just. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Rare addition and change, Arxram, and Chu, to a four family. Right. And with plans with off-street parking. The violation is Article 53 Section 8. A four family dwelling is forbidden news. Article 53 Section 9. The authority of the ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9. The height is excessive in stories. Article 53 Section 9. The front-yard setback is insufficient and falcon street. Article 53 Section 9. The side-yard setback is insufficient. Article 53 Section 9. The rear-yard setback is insufficient. Article 53 Section 9. The front-yard setback is insufficient on Putnam Street. Article 53 Section 56. Off-street parking is insufficient. And Article 27T-5. This is in the East Boston iPod. Name and address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair and Members of the Rural Attorney Jeff Triego. With Triego and Tuscano with an address of 15 Broad Street. I have James Christopher the Architect from RCA. And Vitaly Fadosik, the owner of 137 Falcon Street. As was mentioned, we are seeking to construct a rare addition on existing two family structure. Change the occupancy from two to four residential condominiums with three associated parking spaces off of Putnam Street on the side. This unit breakdown, which I'll go over, these are all two bedroom units. Unit 1 is a duplex unit at 1197 square feet, two bed, two bath. All of the others are roughly in the 900 square foot range, two bed, one bath. There is a utility sprinkler room in the basement separate from the living quarters and access through a separate stair. The violations, as was read off, it is a 2F district. And we are proposing four condominium units. The FAR allowed is 0.8, we're at 2.43. Building height allowed is 2.5 stories, we're at three. Our front and side yard is five, where these are pre-existing violations since the structure of the building will remain. That's zero. And our rear yard is eight foot five inches required is 30. We would be required to have additional three parking spaces, although we are providing three. Currently, there is two existing spaces on the sides. This will allow us to add an additional space to go along with those units. As was mentioned, this is an all condo project as well. I can answer any questions that the board may have. So the access to the parking is from a club cut at Putnam, right? Correct. That's an existing curb cut. Thank you. So have you seen the BPDAs recommendation? I have. And I can't address the curb cut. It is existing. How about the density issue? Because this is a 2F 2000. It is surrounded. I know right next to us is a two, but directly behind us is a three family to the right of us across the street. Is a three family? So have you checked out a three family option? We went with this condo option. It was well received in the community, Madam Chair. We were able to maintain the structure of the buildings being raised in this area. We were able to keep it by adding this addition. And that helps. There is a condo on the monitor. And so there is a living space in the basement, right? Correct, for unit one. And that is a bedroom and a master bedroom and a family room. Correct. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Kendel? From the board. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Lina Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recurring support. During the community process, the applicant addressed most of the concerns of the abaters and the legal health and civil association board in support of this proposal. Thank you. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Ricardo Patro, from the Office of City Councilor Lidia Edwards, the Councillor. I would also like to go on record in support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Any additional questions from the board? So there's a question. It looks like there's a grade change on Putnam Street between you guys, the off-roputty and the abaters and the back. And the off-roputty line is I'm just trying to visualize it. The off-roputty line is where that retaining wall is. So there's the retaining wall and then there's the parking spaces. You can see those on that wall after it and then an area for the rear of the butter as well. But as you climb up that hill, it's a significant grade change to East Eagle Street. So they would be looking over our building and the top two floors. Okay. We'll make a motion to approve of BPD a design review. All those in favor? Any opposed? I'll just put my name down as opposed because I concerned about the density. Thank you. So you're all set. Good luck. Thank you. All of your next case. Calling 08943. 071159 Gobs Street. This is a direct aid for family dwelling. Violations, Article 25, Section 5. This is in the flood hazard district. Article 27T-5. The C's Boston iPod. Article 53, Section 56. Osterie parking, load room, quiet. None as proposed. Expected required. Article 53, Section 8. The MF virus forbidden. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 53, Section 9, excessive height. Article 53, Section 9. Number of allowed stories have been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9. It's insufficient, additional law to area. Thank you. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient lot width. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient lot frontage. With, Article 53, Section 9, insufficient rear. Yeah, it's set back. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side yard set back. Article 53, Section 9. Excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient usable open space. And, Article 53, Section 54. Screening and buffering, none as proposed. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the floor. My name is Richard Lens, 245 Sumner Street. East Boston, on behalf of the petitioner with me, is David Telerego. He is the owner of the property at 59 Go Street. Also with me, Dominic Valendi is the architect for this project. Madam Chair, this property is located in the... I guess, for lack of a better geographical identifier, probably closest to Maverick Square, if I had identified between Central Square and Maverick Square. It is, by way of context, I look at directly behind a series of four-story row houses that were rebuilt after a building collapse about six years ago. Our proposal would provide a building that is pretty much in scaling character, all the surrounding buildings along Chelsea Street. This proposal would involve a four-story four-unit building with proposed roof deck access by headhouse. This is located at 3F 2000 district. Each of the units are approximately 875 square feet, all two bedroom, two bath. Upon completion, this would be intended for home ownership, so each of these units will be part of a condo association. The Secretary indicated that this was located in the flood hazard AE. AE, not being the flood zone A. We are looking at the possibility of reviewing this through an elevation certificate based upon the proximity, or at least the elevation that we believe could be adjusted for this type of building. In addition, obviously, we are not looking for any relief under the flood provisions of the zoning code. If we are not able to comply in the building, obviously needs to be modified in order to comply. We are proposing... Sorry, what is Boss Concom Reveal Conservation Commission? Yes, so anything within flood hazard would require a condo review. Okay, tell us about the parking. There is no parking proposed on the site. This is a very tight site shallow lot, as well as a very narrow but very consistent with the lot sizes in the area. This particular neighborhood does not have the typical 2,000 square foot size lots, a hundred foot by 20 foot width. This is a 19 by about 50 feet in depth. Because it is a shallow lot, we are seeking relief. For a rare yard, although the requirement would be reduced from 30 feet, as required in the 3F-2000 down a 10 foot. Our setback is at 8.3 feet, but again, consistent with the alignment of buildings along that side of GO3. By way of relief that we need under the Code Madam Chair, we are proposing multi-family, although three families allowed by right. This use is quite consistent in this part of East Boston. As I mentioned, the entire block of Chelsea Street is all multi-family, at least four units or more. As you go from Chelsea all the way down to Maverick. This would simply be an extension as your turn of corner on GO Street of those uses. But we have lot size, although 3F-2000 does permit the construction of a single family dwelling. It is a buildable lot of the 1032 square feet. It would be under the requirement as required under Article 53 for the additional units that we are proposing. We do meet the requirement for a lot with. There is a pre-existing condition of 19 feet. The intent of the code permits a reduction down to 17 and a half feet if the shack is built on. This particular lot is very typical for the surrounding area. 19 feet is not unusual for that area. Our modal setback would be applied for a setback in the front. The area, even though five foot is required, we would do that based upon the design review. As I mentioned, 8.3 feet in the rear, where a 10 foot requirement would be required under Article 53 for the shallow lot exception. Our floater ratio is 2.96. 1.0 is the maximum of 3F-2000 district. We feel that 2.96 is again consistent with the surrounding densities of the buildings in all along Chelsea Street, as well as the surrounding properties along Bremen as well as GO, so quite consistent in size. The height of our buildings at 38.5 feet, slightly above the height limit of Article 53, which is 35 feet, three stories. We would have below 300 square foot per open space. Again, based upon the size of this lot, there isn't a lot of opportunity for open space. To be located, we are proposing a roof deck for the building that would be located above the fourth level. And we can review whether or not that is something that would be available for the entire building. So the buildings on the block, I'm looking at this photo. So they look like they had three story buildings, right? So in that photo, if you look to the first site context photo, it shows the buildings, you see the rear of the buildings on Chelsea Street. Those are all four story buildings directly across the street as well. It was a four story building, it was recently in Charleston. And this is a short block, it's just those side homes. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Kendel? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support during the community process that developer addresses most of the concerns of the abarras and also Maverick Central Neighborhood Association, boarded in support of this proposal. Thank you. Morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patro, from the Office of City Councilor Lidia, towards the council, would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Council, I did forget to ask you about that roof deck. So that roof deck is accessed by headhouse, and that is because of the height of the building, building code, to require a headhouse for four stories. We did present that specifically to the Maverick Central Neighborhood Association. There was no objection to the headhouse. This neighborhood is not as sensitive as some other neighborhoods when it comes to headhouses. We are sensitive to headhouses, however. So it sounds to me that the two things that we have been pretty consistent on is the look of the headhouse. And I think the second thing is that because flood has an area excited, we need to respond to it in some way in our motion. So I think at least for the flood has an area, we will deny that relief. And then you can sort it out through whatever process needs to happen to sort it out. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with BPDA Design Review, with the exception of the... And denying any building code relief. Well, second, that motion. So did you take into account the flood hazard area? That would be built on that. So denied the flood hazard area. Okay. And then design review for the headhouse. Okay. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Following the next case, calling BOA1015822, 127 Marion Street. This is a change in the occupants from the elderly housing, elderly daycare, accessory community space, to elderly housing, daycare, and accessory daycare. Also complete interior renovations. The Violation Ethical 27G, this is in the East Boston iPod, and Article 53 Section A to daycare is forbidden. May I have an address for the rectum, please? Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board. I'm Dr. Dredgo and Dr. Dredgo and to Sconto with an address of 15 Broad Street with me. I have Tanya and L from the East Boston Social Center. This proposal is seeking to change the occupancy from existing senior congregate, elderly housing, with adult daycare. That's how it was formally used. An accessory community space, to elderly housing and child daycare and accessory daycare. There also be a complete renovation of that ground level floor that would house this particular project. Please describe for me the difference between that it's going to be elderly housing, daycare for kids, and what is accessory daycare? It just goes along with the same property. But it's all on the same property. All on the same property, all on the same section on the ground level. Okay. And how many children and how many square feet for this use? There will be 41 children at the site. It will be expanding the infant care that the East Boston Social Center is able to provide by adding an additional infant room to serve seven more kids. And then there will be three toddler rooms serving a total of 36 toddlers. And that's, okay. And there's no need for adult daycare anymore. No, it was the CDC ran the program, and I believe it's. Yeah, so the East Boston CDC owns the building and developed the elderly housing. The East Boston neighborhood health center was actually running the pace program there. They've consolidated that program to a site in rever. So all of the seniors who were being served there now have transportation to a new center in rever. Okay. How are the plans for the second day of the year? Any questions from the board? Yeah. Now that the senior daycare is being removed, are you still going to, do you have any plans to work on BTD on maybe turning over some of that curb space that was used to pick up and drop off ambulances and things like that? So there's pick up and drop off for buses, right? It was zoned as, it was labeled as that. You're going to continue to use that for the pick up and drop off for the children, just the time changes. You want to go over the peak hours? Sure. So as opposed to having intermittent buses coming and using it for drop off, we have two buses in the morning that bring children. We also have two buses in the afternoon who pick up the kids at the center. We have heard from the residents in the building that they would like to maintain that loading zone because they do have frequently the need for ambulances and other services to come and have a loading zone in front of the building. So it'll serve a dual purpose. Thank you. Any other questions? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. The applicant addressed most of the concerns of the abares during the community process and also this proposal received strong support from Eagle Hill Civic Association and from many residents of Eagle Hill. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board of the card of the patrol from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The councilor would like to go on record and strong support of this proposal. Madam Chair, members of the board, Paul Sullivan. On behalf of City Councilor Elijah McAflarity, Councilor DeGone, record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck, you're all. Following the next case, calling B.O.A.101347034 West Eagle Street. This will include an extension of living space into the basement and new rear decks. Violate, Article 25, Section 5. This is in the flood hazard district. Article 53, Section 9. The side yard is in sufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The rear yard is in sufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The floodier ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. The morning at the chair was the board, Richard Lins, 45 Sumner Street East Boston. On behalf of the petitioner, with me, Trial Arrayer from Joy Street Design, also with me, Gary Lieberman, who's the property owner. For the record, Madam Chair, I believe flood hazard is cited in wrongly. This property, located on West Eagle Street, would not be, I do not believe, a flood hazard would be a flood hazard based upon the elevation of the Eagle Hill. So, we're not requesting any relief for that. If the board feels it's necessary to dispose of that, we have no objection. With respect to the proposal, this is a pre-existing non-conforming use located at 34 West Eagle Street. The property is a pre-existing three-family dwelling. Our proposal is to conduct a complete rehabilitation of the entire building. This is a new owner. This is a new owner. This is a new owner. That's correct. Our proposal is for a complete rehabilitation interior reprogram with the entire building, which would include extension of some living space into the basement area, as well as locating utilities and storage for ultimately the condo conversion. The exterior of the building will be updated to be consistent with the Eagle Hill standards. We've provided depiction of the front elevation as well to remove a lot of that vinyl siding and certainly improve the appearance of this building. But we have relief. We do require a side yard relief based upon the proposed addition that we're doing to square off the building. The two and a half foot side yard setback is the required setback. We would be within that setback based upon the proposed addition. The rear yard, we have a 15 foot pre-existing rear yard, but because we are proposing an addition, any work that's done at an upper level would also require relief. The pre-existing floater ratio is 1.23 presently with the proposed modification to the building would increase that FAR to 1.58, so the difference between the 1.23 and 1.58 would be necessary for various as well. There's no other relief necessary, even though there's no part of it proposed. We are not changing the occupancy, so the occupancy will remain at three units, and therefore no other relief would be necessary for that. The building will consist of three units, generous size units, all of three bedrooms, which is a rarity for conversions of existing stock in East Boston. Units 2 and 3 will be up to 1221 square feet, and unit 1 with the extended living space into the basement will be up to 17 out of square feet, so very generous size units for family-style living in the Ego Hill neighborhood. So a couple questions. The proposed addition, what's the total square footage of the proposed additions and all floors? 550 square feet. It's 550 square feet, and second question is that shed light structure, if I look at this photo, that's proposed to stay. Is that just the access to the basement, to the common space, and there's no other way of working around it? That would access the storage area located in the basement from the front of the building, otherwise, you're limited based upon the reprogramming to have a little space down there. Okay. How would the plans, Mr. Kendell? Any questions from the board? So the plans I have right here only show unit 1 and unit 2, unless the third floor should be unit 3? Yeah, third floor, it's identified as a third floor plan. It does say unit 2, but it's actually unit 3, I apologize. Any other questions from the board? Is that like an alleyway in between the two properties, or I'm just looking at that front photo? So the area that's open, Mr. Jero, is on the 36 west eagle side. There is, it appears to be access into their side of their buildings, that's for their access. Okay. And that curb cut, there's a curb cut there, but there's no driveway, right? The curb cut, you're seeing that over there. It's on the photo, on the front photo. Yeah. No, I just, yeah. I'm sorry, I don't, I don't, where's the curb cut? And, and we're just assuming that that shed thing is on your property. That's correct. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. The developer address the concerns of the abarters during the community process, and also the Eagle Real Civic Association, where in support of this proposal. Thank you. Morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, a card up with Tron from the Office of City Council or Liddy Edwards, the council would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. So anybody here to speak in opposition? I neglected to ask you, what's the floor to ceiling height in the basement? Seven foot six. Seven foot six. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Just one, sorry, one more question. We're going to keep that front, yeah, it's that back, right? We're not changing the floor. Motion will approve pending BPD, a design review. And no relief. Oh, no. Flood has it. Yeah, I can deal with ISD. I mean, it's fine. I mean, you'd rather just do it now, and then it's just process after that. Is there a second? Okay. Okay, so motion will approve. There are relief without flood hazard relief. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all second. Thank you very much. Calling B-O-A-100-6761-179 Putnam Street. This is interior innovations to legalize existing living space in unit one and basement. Visatical violation, Visatical 53, Section 9. Affleud A ratio is excessive. Name and address, further record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, my name is Jeff Ganon. I'm at 3 Linwood Avenue in North Reading. I'm the architect representing the applicants. So tell us what's being proposed. There is an existing three unit building that has basement living space when the applicants Bretton-Lindsey McClendon here next to me purchased the property. They thought that space was official. It is not, so they are just trying to go on record and make the official living space. So essentially the first unit will have two floors, the basement or garden level as well as the first floor. And what's the size of that first unit, square footage, including the basement? Including the basement. It'll be around 1500 square feet. And the other two units? They're about 750. And what's the use in the basement? Residential. No, but I mean is it a bedroom? Is it a playroom? Oh. It's a bigger apartment. It is going to be kitchen dining. There is one bathroom in storage area. Kitchen and dining. Okay. We're floated ceiling height there. It is 7 foot 6 and most areas. The bathroom which is lifted slightly is 7 feet. 7 feet. Or we'll be 7 feet. Okay. I think we've covered all questions. Missick and down how are the plants? I think it's a fine. I just see there's no common access to the mechanical. The common access, excuse me, will be through the rear stair and patio area. We are putting in a new wall. So all tenants will have common access through that route. Okay. Is that satisfied, Mr. Condole? Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. During the community process, this proposal got strong support from the abaters and as well from Ego, Hils, civic association. Thank you. Morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council and Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion or proof? And this is with no code relief? We have no code relief for the mechanicals. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. The next case calling POA 101654370 Utah Street. This is a change of oxygen by two to a three-unit residential dwelling. The violation is Article 2070, East Boston iPod, Article 53, Section 56, insufficient parking, off street parking, load and requirement. Article 53, Section 8 uses forbidden, Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board. Well, yes, still good morning. Attorney Larenskettino 245 Sumner Street in East Boston. With me is the owner of the property, Maria Gremaldi. This is a proposal to change the occupancy from a two to a three-unit residential dwelling. We're planning on staying within the existing footprint of the dwelling and just seeking the occupancy within the basement of the unit. The reason behind this request is that the owner's parents currently reside in the building and they're having a little bit of a difficult time accessing the front steps so they're looking to move into the first level living if this was approved. By way of variances, this is a 2F-2000 neighborhood so we would need a variance for the use as we're going to three units. For a floor area ratio, we're just slightly over the 0.8 mark. We're probably at about 0.9 and we would need a variance for one parking space as we're not providing any parking as well as iPod. And with that, I can take the sailing height of the basement because I know this is a frequently asked question, is actually 8 feet 2 inches. And what's the square footage in the basement? So the total square footage of unit 1 would end up being 928 square feet. Unit 2 is about 1056 square feet and unit 3 is 928 square feet and they're all currently being used as one bedrooms. So if you look at the front picture, the doorway will likely be enlarged on the street view. There's already an open doorway and then there's actually also access to the rear as well. There won't be any stairs. The worst that they would be is a small step to go and down but everything is pretty level and we plan on modifying it to fit the same. Okay, so I'm looking at optional new window to a place door. So I'm just looking at, okay, looking at unit 3 proposed, unit 3 proposed at basement. Yes. On A2, it seems to indicate that the optional new window to replace the door. So there's actually another doorway that could be accessed by way of the yard so they are leaving the option open to replace that with the window and then also keep and add a doorway down in the back where it says storage in the unit 3 proposed at basement. So the mechanical area will be to left side and correct. So somebody would have to go through a storage space to access the building if they need a wheelchair or something like that? No, they can still access it by the front entrance, the storage spaces towards the back. Okay. How the plans Mr. Condom? Any questions from the board? So anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning Madame Chair, members of the board, Lina Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the record in support during the community process. There were no concerns from the abattor and also this proposal received strong support from Eagle Hill Association. Thank you. Madame Chair, members of the board, your card up a term from the Office of City Council or Lidia Edwards, the council would also like to go on record in support. Madame Chair, members of the board, all Sullivan, we have the Council on Michael Flarety, Council of the American Support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? One question, where is the owners unit? The owners unit currently is the first level, right? What's currently the first level? Your parents? My parents are on the second floor. It's her parents. 30 steps right now to go down. The owner does not currently live in the building, it's her parents that live in the building. Oh, I see. Because we always struggle with the relief going to the building and not to the owner. And the current situation. So, just put it out there. Understood. We would have likely this would have qualified to be on a Thursday hearing. However, due to a state planning purposes, my client currently owns the building. Her parents have lived there throughout their lives, so this has been the situation. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling. Actually, it's 11.35. I'm going to call 11.30. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 11.30? No. Okay. I'll call it again if anybody's outside. Calling. Next case. Can only be away. 102-302-040 Morris Street. This is the confirm. The evidence is a three-family dwelling. This is an existing condition. The building has been used as a three-family dwelling for many years. Full renovations, all three units. And basement, new kitchen, upgrades, new, new, new rear decks. The building will be fully sprinkled. The Vialage Article 2070 Section 9. This is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53 Section 9. The Floyd A. Ratio is excessive. And Article 53 Section 9. The side yard isn't sufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Hi, good morning. My name is Claudia Sierra. I'm a resident of East Boston. I live on five-condor street, but it's about my property on 40 Morris Street. How was the proposal to you? So this has been kind of a strange process for me. I purchased this property as a three-family. And when I apply to do the full renovations, to keep it as a three-family, I'm not doing any additions or anything other than rear porches. Being taxes as a three-family? Yes. And you have utilities for a three-family. Absolutely. And tell us about the, it's a unit in the basement or an ad. It's a basement that is the first. So the basement has been an existing part of the first floor. And under the renovations, we just renovated the property. It was an extremely bad shape. But the property, we were told it was a single family and down the road about four months later, I as the, come from that they had made a mistake and they were looking at another property. So it is, it was a three-family. So I still need to understand how the building works. Okay. Okay. So, there's three units. Correct. The first unit is how do you square each? That's the basement and the first floor? It's approximately 1200 with the, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Correct. How about the second unit? The second and third floor are approximately 745 each. And where is the third unit? It's the second and third are each. 745. Tell us about the floor and see if I can find the basement. 7-3. 7-3, and what's the, what's it used for? It's a, the basement alone is a third bedroom, a second bathroom, laundry and storage. And that's some three-family. Yeah. It looks like a three-family. Is it all a property? So. Which was what em basement? Yeah. It's the basement. Yeah. It's the unit itself. Yeah. Second out. How are the plans? Drugs of fine. Yeah. And everything for the basement living is good. Yes. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lena Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. They were not concerned from the abares during the community process and this proposal received strong support from the abares and as well from Eagle Hill Civic Association. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patrone from the Office of City Councilor Lydia. It's the council would also like to go on record and support. Madame Chair, members of the board, Jessica, it's your city councilor at large and needs the site. We do our just office and she would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Any motion please? Motion or approve with no code, no building code relief. Second. Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Any opposed? It's been approved? No building code relief. Okay. Good luck. Only the next two cases calling B.O.A.1016538, 41 to 43, Horace Street. There is a campaigning case B.O.A.101, 6537, 45 to 47, Horace Street. This is for 41, 43. Add a roof deck to the head house. Add 600 square feet with a bed and bath and basement. Violation.53, section 9, excessive FAR. Medical 53, section 9, excessive FAR. This is the same purpose for 45, 47 and also the same violation. So we'll move it into the record. Name and address for the record please. Chair, members of the board, Richard Lens 245, Sumner Street, East Boston, behalf of the petitioner, with me, owner of the property, Joseph Truquillo. I'm used to hand out to the mayor. I happen. Oh, cool. Today, maybe I could have brought this live show. It's very official. New accommodation. Baby steps. Yeah, I understand. I'm stuck. A little time. Thank you. Yes, so with me is Joseph Truquillo, who is the owner of the property. Madam Chair, this involves two existing permitted, two families dwellings located in the Harborview neighborhood section of East Boston. These properties were approved by this board sometime back and I've since gone under construction. With respect to the request today, we are amending. So this had gone from the length. Maybe earlier than that, because the permit was 16. It might have been 2016 prior petitioner. Mr. Truquillo purchased this project from the owner and proceeded with construction immediately upon closing. What we have before the board is a request to amend the original approval and original permit, where we are proposing to add a Rusek Access byhead house, as well as extend the living space into the basement. I'm going to explain. Hi, May. I've stepped for this question because I knew it was possible. Okay, well, let's talk about the easy part. I suppose it's the living space. Yes, so the proposal is to add about 600, 700 square feet of additional living space into the basement that would be a pertinent to the first level that would allow both of these units to be duplex style units and provide for appropriate marketable size living space for each of these buildings. So they'll remain two family dwellings, but we will have an equal amount of space at the lower level as well as the upper levels. The programming for the building by way of open spaces that the plan would be to have the rear yards combined. They would be open space for the lower level units and the roof decks would be exclusively upper level units. Respect to the existing head houses, as well as the other. Mr. Truquillo has done a number of projects in the high-review neighborhood. Many of them by right, not requesting zoning relief and building a number of two family dwellings. When you permit a two family dwelling. So let me just backtrack. When this initially came through, did it come through for a head house, or roof deck or not? It did not. So it came through as strength with any provisors that were put on with no roof decks or anything like that. They were not. It was strictly designed review only. So it was just straight to family. That's correct. Okay. And that was done by a prior petitioner, Mr. Truquillo, my office, John Volk. Mr. Truquillo has built a number of two families by right in this particular neighborhood. And when permitting by right in the neighborhood, you would be allowed under new construction under Article 53 to not include your head house as part of your building height. So there is a conceivable way when you build ground up to build a roof deck access by a head house and not require zoning relief for that. The nuance under Article 53 when it comes to rooftop restrictions involves adding a head house or adding a roof deck to an existing building and therefore you require conditional use. And provided that your head house is not more than 10% of the total footprint of the roof, you can do that under Article 6 with permission of the board. So there is somewhat of an ambiguity in Article 53 that when you are building ground up with a head house, it doesn't count towards height. You can do it without conditional use. And that's been done. You informed your clients that we have a need, I'm sure you have, because you are before us plenty of times that we prefer hatches to roof decks. I mean, to head houses? Have you explored that option? I didn't. I can explain. So without saying what I've told my client, he is well aware of the preference for new construction that a head house is preferred over roof deck. In fact, he's been, I'm sorry, hatches preferred over a head house. He's been before this board on the projects where he has proposed when he's the petitioner, he has proposed the project with hatch not head house. In this particular case, the mistake, if you will, had come from when constructing the building, almost identical to buildings that he's done, including buildings on a forestry, he's done those by right with head house. The nuance here is that this was approved by the board as a building with no head house. And when the permit issued, it was not something that was included in the original plans. He did file for an amendment with the plans understanding that he would need relief to extend the living space into the basement, and that would have to come before the board. Then the violation was issued relative to the head house, which at this point he then petitioned for relief for that as well. That was already constructed as part of the framing, and that was something that he understands isn't the normal way to proceed, but has done in the past as a matter of right for other projects in the community. How the plans was to continue? We did present this back to the Harborview Neighborhood Association, and we wanted to make sure we were transplanted. I think it went ahead with a certain assumption, and then it's only a couple basically. A reasonable one I would add, not a reason. Oh, Valley Judge, what is that? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Lina Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support during the community process that developer addresses most of the concerns of the abiders, and also Harborview Neighborhood Association, boarded in support of this proposal. Thank you. Good morning, Madame Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patrón from the Office of City Council, Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion will approve. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Mr. Pazani, do you want to put in a couple of words back there? I just noticed you there for a minute sitting in the back. I think Mr. Lins just breathed a sigh of relief here. I thought he was coming to speak just on this. Was there a second? All those in favor? Aye. I'm opposed because I don't think this is a good precedent to start approving very large headhouses like this. I think it won't happen again, certainly with this developer. Going into the next case, calling the DOA 100406848 Union Park. Just to construct a red deck of the kitchen in Unit 3. Some interior changes, the violations, Article 64, Section 9.4. Townhouse Rojo's extensions, a new deck of floor 3 projects into the red yard. Name and address for the record, please. I'm Robert Leone and I'm the architect for the project. Tell us what's being proposed. We are proposing to build a small deck on the third level of the project. And that requires ZBA approval for anything above the first floor. And what's the dimension? The dimension is 15 feet by 6 feet. 15 by 6, and is it going to be bracket supported? Yes. How are the plans? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairmembers of the board. My name is Faisishri with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support this proposal. It matches a very similar deck in the South End. And there were no immediate concerns from the voters. Thank you. Thank you. Madam, over the Chairmembers of the board, I'm Akal Leone from Councillor Flings office. The Councillor would like to go on record and support. We have heard no concerns from the Union Park neighborhood association or the Aboders. Therefore, we support the project. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion? No. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Have a good day. Thank you. We have a number 35 murder street. This is install a new rooftop deck. Access from the existing head house. Violations article 261. The really out is insufficient. Name and address, further, I can please. Name is James Fulombo, 135 Mural Street. And I'm with my architect, Scott Traneer from Chew & Company. So tell us what's being proposed. We are upgrading the existing head house to make some repairs and proposing to add a new roof deck. Okay. Tell us about the, are you changing the dimension of the head house at all? No. Okay. And the dimension of that roof deck? The roof deck is 245 square feet roughly. It's an awkward size, it's a square size. The main portion of the roof deck though is roughly 12 foot 8 feet by 8 foot 11 on the front and the pocket of the same size. Okay. And the head house has been there for how long? Since the construction of the building as far as I know. And when was that? Actually I don't know when the house will be open. Okay. And this is a, how many units in the building? It is a multi-family, it's two units. Okay. And this would be access to all units. No, it's just only to the top unit. Okay. How are the plans? The second though. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this? Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Faisa Sharif with the mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. On behalf of my colleague, Shnees P. M. Tell, we would like to go on, on record in support. She held in a butters meeting back in September. This is a modest proposal. Head house is existing. We see you know issues at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? No, approve. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Calling the next case. Calling the V.O.A. 100-4372-225-3. This is a constructive fourth floor addition with roof deck on an existing single family home. The violation is Article 27S, Act 5. Section 5. This is in the south boss and iPod. Section 28, Section 29. Roost structure restrictions. Article 68, Section 8. Floodier ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8. The building height is excessive in feet. Article 68, Section 8. The front yard is insufficient. Article 68, Section 8. Side yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Erick Zackerson, architect for the project. One, love those street in Charlestown. And with me is Chad Tyler, one of the new owners of the property. Tell us what's being proposed. It's an existing currently three story building with garage on the first floor living on the second floor and two bedrooms on the third floor. And it was built in 2012. They are proposing to add a third floor with a master suite and to remove the existing roof deck and head house and put a roof deck and head house on top of the fourth floor. And when this project was before this board in 2012, were there any restrictions placed on it? No, not to our knowledge. Did you look at the old files here? Yes. Okay. And this is going to be accessed by a head house. You've heard what our concern is with that house. Yes, we are. We have there is currently a head house which is pretty hard to see from the neighbors and four of the neighboring buildings have on this block have head houses. So we have reduced it as much as we can, pushed it to the back of the property and sloped it away from the street. And what's it I mentioned about deck? The deck is 12 foot by 15 foot. Okay. And so your violation is 12 foot by 23 feet. So level four plan proposes a master plus office basically. Yes. And then a roof deck. And then what happens on the third floor? Two bedrooms. Yes, there are two bedrooms. Okay. What is the height of the building? It is currently, it is 32 feet six. The new roof line would be at 43 feet and the head house would be at 51. The top of the head house would be at 51 feet. And that's conformity with the two buildings next door. And that's the one. Yes, that is the intent. Yes. And how would the plans just second down? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board, Haley Dillamere's Office Neighborhood Services. I'd like to go and record and support. We held the button meeting October 22nd, in which no button is showed any concerns. Thank you. Is anybody here to go ahead? I'm Adam Chair, members of the board. Anna Caledon from Councillor Finges office. The Councillor would like to go and record and support as the meeting went well. And we also spoken with the residents and the same being said, neighborhood association, they have expressed no concerns. Therefore, we support the project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I have a motion to approve the continued BPA review. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carried, sir. All set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following the last case for a 1030 calling B O A, 102, 4677, 316-318 Northern Avenue. This is new construction of a four-story steel frame, core and shell building for research and development use. It includes up to 45 below grade parking spaces. It includes 10,000 square feet of retail, restaurant and service space. The violation is Article 6, Section 03A, additional conditions and a restricted parking district. An Article 8, Section 7, accessory parking garage, conditional item number 72. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. Attorney Jared Agerman, Ruben Junieson Rose with me is Steve Faber of Related Deal, the developer. This is the second building of a two-phase life sciences project started in 2013. So it's been through large project review. Notice a project change went through the BPA over the summer. The relief we need is to do a structured parking. So at present, the phase one is complete as a certificate of occupancy. That's got 84 surface spaces. But this will have 45 structured spaces and therefore it needs a conditional use because it's in the restricted parking overlay. How are the plans, Mr. Tendell? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here just a Bob? Did you want us to say anything? It's a restricted parking district. 45. Okay. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Can I have chair members of the board, Hailey Del Mirzab, Snavor Services, like to go record and support? Thank you. Madam of the chair members of the board, Anna Caleron from Councillor Flings office, the Councillor would like to go on recording support. Thank you. And then chair members of the board, my name is Representative Carpenters. We have for hundreds of union carpenters, the legal ward for the city of Boston, want to go on recording support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Make a motion for approval. You have BPDA. Is there a second? I'm going to go through a design review. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I'm going to call the 1130s again. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1130? Hearing none, I'll call the first case. Following, VOA 972. 96358 Lubick Street. Lubick Street, yeah? Yeah. This is the renovate. The change of lockings from 4 to 9 unit dwelling. You're wrecked in addition with roof deck and wrecked. Reconstruct re-adact. The violation of Article 25, Section 5. This is in the flood hazard district. Article 53, Section 9. The Laudierie Firdishional Units is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The Floodier Ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 9. The height requirement is excessive in stories. Article 53, Section 9. The height requirement is excessive in feet. Article 53, Section 9. Usable open space is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The side-dad setback is insufficient. Article 53, Section 56. Our street parking requirement is insufficient. Article 27T-5. This is in the e-spots and iPod. Article 53, Section 9. The radiated setback requirement is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9. The required side-dad setback is insufficient. The amenant just for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. Richard Hins 245-Sunder Street e-spots. The oppositioner with me is James Christopher. Architect for the project along with Nick Delibro. Who is the owner of the property at 58 Loubex Street. This is located in the Jeffrey's Point Go Street neighbor. It is a pre-existing for-unit dwelling. Relatively larger size units. Our proposal is to change the occupancy from the four units to nine units. We are proposing a vertical addition as well. This would be a mix of one studio, three one bedrooms, five two bedroom units. These would actually be smaller in size than what the existing conditions presently have. We will also propose the rehabilitation of exterior facades. This will involve an upgrade to the life safety of Springfields and Fire alarm. This is currently a rental property and intended ultimately for condo conversion. So this subject property is this one right here? That's correct. What you are looking at just for context purposes to the left of that. If you're looking at the property Madam Chair is the Montcarmel Reckery which is part of Montcarmel project. Which I believe has been recently brought forward with the board. That is the building that is being demolished and created open space at that location. The height of the Montcarmel various locations I believe is up to five stories as well. This is located in the MFR district so the proposed change from a four to a nine unit is allowed under Article 53 as a multi-family residential unit. And this is all society this flood has it. That's interesting. I typically include the abstract from the BPD not that that's gospel. But we notice that the flood hazard zone is not quite as far as Bluebeck Street. Usually when it's a close call we actually do a further analysis. So this too we would reserve our right to look at this through an elevation certificate. We're not looking for relief. There is a pre-existing condition of the building already. We're not proposing new construction. We're not necessarily sure there would be any additional conservation commission review because this is already an existing building with existing conditions. But we will address that accordingly with ISD and we don't feel that that is something at the end of the day that's going to be an issue. Okay so your studios are 332 square feet. That's correct. And your two beds are 582. Correct. And so this is going from 4 to 9 units and you're adding a floor right. That's correct. Okay. So with respect to the height I'm out of chair and you can see in the proposed or existing conditions plans. There is a head house that is already above the upper level pretty substantial size. Our height of our building will be consistent with the existing house. So we're not going any higher than the head house that is that presently exists. So you're basically pulling that additional condition, you're pulling it back through the front yard deck essentially. Front facing back. That's correct. That will give a little bit of a setback and preserve the passing of the building along Louvrex Street. So we will be changing the front facade of the building. The addition would be setback. I believe it's about 14 feet back from the front. And the basement there's no dwellings on the basement. Pardon? Not happened. Okay. How are the plants, is the condel? Drawings are fine. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Lina Tremeli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support. The applicant addressed most of the concerns of the abares during the community process. And also this proposal had the support from Gov Street City and the association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Council. Lydia Edwards, the councilor. We would also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? So this doesn't require you to provide a handicap unit at all. Does it? No. Because it's an existing building and we're all increasing the occupancy by four units. I don't think it does. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with BPDD's an narrative? No, building's overrelease. Second. All those in flavor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Following your next case, calling B.O.A. 97296548 Geneva Street. This is a direct A6 unit residential dwelling with parking for three vehicles. Violation, Article 25, Section 5. This is flood hazard district. Article 2070-5, which is in the spot in iPod. Article 53, Section 56. Osterie parking. Lowend proposed. Osterie parking is insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, additional lot of areas insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, the floodier ratio was excessive. Article 53, Section 9, the bill and hide is excessive in stories. Article 53, Section 9, the bill and hide is excessive in fee. Article 53, Section 9, usable open spaces insufficient. Article 53, Section 9, this idea is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 9, the real yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. Again, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Richard Lins. Section 245, Sumner Street, East Boston. You have the petitioner. Same petitioner as the last. Nick Deliburo with me as well on our property. With me also is James Christopher for the project. This proposal involves a construction of a ground up new six unit dwelling with we were showing four parking spaces. Mix of four one bedroom and two. Sorry, is it three or four parking? I call you four parking spaces. We're showing four. Three. Okay, I apologize. Three. As indicated, as I mentioned. A mix of four one bedroom and two two bedroom units. And this is intended upon completion for homeownership. This also is located in the multi-family residential district. So this use would be permitted under Article 53. Also located in the Goat Street, Lower Jeffries Point neighborhood. Geneva Street, I guess for lack of a better term, is probably the newest emerging neighborhood in East Boston. This is bordering right on the airport service road. And is adjacent to the embassy suite hotel located just on the edge of the airport property. This proposal would be consistent in density and size of surrounding buildings. We've indicated in the site contact photos some of the adjoining properties to the rear that are located on Cottage Street. Mr. Deliburo actually is the owner of properties on Cottage Street as well. And these buildings are the proposed building is consistent in size. The unit breakdown is roughly, range is roughly from about 522 square feet up to about 1290 square feet. And providing a diverse mix of the unit counts is something that we constantly hear on the neighborhood as being more preferable, the larger units obviously being available for family-style living. So by way of relief, so they said the multifamily use is permitted. The lot size would be sufficient as 2000 square feet of the minimum. We do have sufficient lot width at 30 at 31 feet. I am proposing a modal setback consistent with the alignment along that force of Geneva Street. We do require relief for the side yard, although the requirement is 2.5. One of our side yards are set at one foot, the other is at 3.5 feet. Our rear at its set at 14 feet. We do qualify for the shallow lot exception based upon the depth of this lot. So the required setback would only be 20 feet. Our floater ratio is proposed at 2.68. We are permitted to have 1.0. And our height of our building is at 50 feet five stories. Three story, 35 feet would be the maximum of the FAR districts, so we are requesting a variance for that. There would be a total of three spaces provided. Nine would be required for six units. And this is also located within the iPod. Just one correction. There is four parking spaces. There's three service spaces at the rear and one interior. Okay, parallel to the mechanical room interior garage. So tell us how the parking would work. So you would... I'm looking at A1. Correct. So tell us how that works. So you would drive the interior into the rear. And the rear portion of the garage would be open. So you pull up to those three parking spaces, butting the rear property line. And then if you look adjacent to the mechanical and trash rooms to the front of the garage, there would be an additional space there that would be accessed by a prepoint turn within the building. And this is a... Okay, so you're providing a lift in the building. Correct. Okay. How are the plans for second bill? You're all joking. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. In a tremorly with the mayor's office of neighbourhood services, I would like to go on the record in support of this proposal. The developer addressed the concerns of the abarras and also we got strong support from Gov Street City's association. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair, members of the board. Ricardo Patrón from the Office of City Councilor Lydia Edwards. The council would also like to go on record and support. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion will approve of a BPDA design review. And if we can focus, I think you've heard us talk about this before. The more porous garage doors rather than the solid piece that feels that it's a barrier. And since you have the parking that seems to come, we might want to look just in the past as in the past Jeff, with screening and buffering at the rear property lines, when we've had this kind of parking situation before. Okay? There's a second all those in favor? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Following the next case, calling VOA 961-467-47-51-Webster Street. This is a restaurant outdoor seating for 22 with food and alcohol service. Violation article 9, Section 1. Exception of a restaurant used with a resident in the residential sub district. Name and address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins, 245 Sumner Street on behalf of the petitioner with me is Phil Frateroli, who is the owner and operator of Canard Tavern located at the corner of Orleans and Webster Street in East Boston. Madam Chair, back about four years ago, this board approved the redevelopment of the site located where currently where Canard Tavern is located into a mixed-use building that includes ground level restaurant, yoga studio, residential units, and rooftop dining. That was something that was very well received by the neighbor at a time, considering that this area of the neighborhood was virtually undeveloped. It's proven to be a tremendous asset for the surrounding area. The neighborhood has supported this restaurant as well as the proposed project that's before the board, as evidenced by the significant number of letters of support from surrounding neighbors. Our proposal at this time is to allow for seasonal outdoor seating and dining. We are proposing a total of 22 seats to be located on the Orleans Street side of the building. This would obviously be done in conjunction with the requirements set forth by the Public Improvement Commission. We've already appeared before PIC who has approved this project subject to the zoning board's approval for the use that we're requesting. As the board may be familiar, I'll make sure that I reiterate seasonal dining is only available between the months of April and October. There is no seasonal dining during the months between October and April. So, tell me once the space is in, what's the width of that sidewalk? The plan is about 4.5 feet. Is that accessible by somebody in a wheelchair or a baby carriage or something? It is. That is certainly the criteria the Public Improvement Commission looks at in determining whether or not this can be approved for outdoor cafe. See, and this is for 22 spaces on Orleans. As you can see, Madam Chair, most of the seating is actually located within the boundary of the property. There is some carve-outs and bump-outs that were designed into the building for plans to add this feature in amenity to the restaurant in the future. This is not something that was requested early on in the approval process simply because it was an opportunity for Phil to prove that his business could be a compatible business with a neighborhood. And we feel that, again, based upon the support that we received for the project the time as well as the project. That's before the board. This is something that could be a complement to this use, certainly, to allow for seasonal dining. And do the barriers get removed in the winter time? They do. So I believe it's April 15 to October 15. That is all removed. The seating has removed its well-placed storage. So there's enough space for somebody to walk. The entire sidewalk that then becomes available. That is correct. How would the plan, second, go? Any questions from the board? These can have tables outside too with where these chairs are. That's correct. And all of the service that occurs has to occur within the designated area, including the service and alcoholic beverages. The licensing commission will also weigh in on how that proceeds and certainly there's rules and requirements to go along with that as well. Will the flower boxes be on the inside property or the outside property? Because sometimes that walking on the street or other places, you really feel the difference or you really feel the difference in the South end. Does anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Good afternoon, Madame Chair and members of the board. Lina Trameli with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. I would like to go on the recording support during the community process. The Office of Neighborhood Services held two awareness meetings for this proposal, where the applicant were close with the abudders and address most of the concerns. Also, this proposal has strong support from Jeffress Point, Ablewood Association and members of the community. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madame Chair and members of the board. Ricardo Patron from the Office of City Councilor Lydia. It's the Councilor who would also like to go on record and support this proposal. Madame Chair, Madame Chair, members of the board. Jessica, are you guys sitting at Councilor at large in the East and Sy? Be Georgia's office and she would also like to go on record and support. Madame Chair, members of the board. Paul Sullivan. We have to say Councilor Lodge with Michael Flarity, Councilor DeVon record support. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion over proof. Zero second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. You have a wonderful holiday in here. Thank you, sir. See you in the new year. Calling the next case. Calling B-O-A-970 for zero for 416 Beacon Street. This is an interior and exterior renovations of a four-story brick row house. The proposed work includes repairs to exterior masonry, window replacement, energy efficient upgrades, renovations to kitchen, and bathrooms, and reconfiguration of bedrooms, and excessive accessibility upgrades. Current use is an R2 fraternity. Violations Article 32 Section 9. This is in the G-Card. Article 9 Section 1. Extensive and non-conforming use. Name and address, fuller, record, please. My name is Jim Sheels. I'm a retired engineer representing the owners of 416 Beacon Street and not for profit corporation. Managed by MIT alumni and supervise the students who live there. So just hold on. Just tell us what is being proposed. How many, just tell us what's being proposed. What's currently in the building? How many bedrooms are? However, this is laid out and what the proposed expansion is. Do you want to get ground water out of the way? Do you want to get ground water out of the way? Yes. Christian? Madam Chair, members of the board, Christian Smellley, Boston, Rowan, and Trust, and we do have the BWSE approval letter. Madam Chair, we also have the letter. Thank you. Are we still holding you up, Christian? No. Okay. You too. See you in the new year. Let's just give a sum of it. Yep. Okay, so let's go ahead with the proposal. Okay. My name is Edrick Van Busekum. I'm the architect for the project, my company's EVB design, and some are all. The project is a existing fraternity that has been there since the early 50s. It houses approximately 39 students. We are doing major renovations, and as part of this, we need to provide accessibility for disabled persons. And the portion of the proposal that's before you today is to construct a roof deck on top of a one-story garage in the back of the building, which faces backstreet and river. And this is to provide an access alternative to an existing roof deck, which is on top of the house. And this has previously been approved through a very rigorous process with the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board. Okay, so, and you will still, so the building is, so there's 39 units. Has always been 39 units. I'm sorry, 39 students, 39 members. No increase in capacity is actually fewer than, actually fewer capacities than, so what did it used to be? Sorry. The first pocket is D is 16, and the unit on how long is it going to be in the first place? Okay, so you're reducing it from 60 to 39 beds. Yeah, and tell us about that, and so the social room, et cetera, will remain the same. No, what we're doing, this is motivated by the fact that our back wall is cracked and we had to do work on it. In the process of that, we're making a major renovation of the building to make ourselves more, more compatible from a neighbor point of view and to apply with ADA compliance. As a consequence, we're moving social rooms down and back and adding installations. We're spending a million and a half dollars for activities that will mitigate noise in the house, and we're also spending another million and a quarter for ADA compliance. And the primary reason for requesting the roof deck on the garage is to balance the competing interest of varying Boston departments between accessibility and other activities, historical preservation, and so we're maintaining historical character of the building. We're providing ADA compliance, and that's really this garage roof deck is the only feasible way in order to do that. And tell us why? Because the other alternatives that we looked at were running an elevator all the way to the roof, and that would add half a million dollars of cost and reduce our capacity from 39 to 32 because of the interior impacts of going through the third and fourth floor with an elevator. That would threaten the financial viability of our organization because it would increase the house bills for our undergraduate students by about 20%. And further, it would require a head house on the roof which the BACC said they wouldn't approve. The only third alternative that we considered was suggested by the NABB, which is an exterior elevator, which is completely infeasible because the place to put that would limit our ability to actually get into the house from an ADA compliance point of view. And we've also been told by the BACC that they wouldn't approve that. So tell us about the roof deck. Tell us about the roof deck. Is it accessible all the time or their limits to the use of roof deck? There are limits out here. Yeah. The deck, both MIT and our organization have established a set of rules for the use of roof deck. For both the existing roof deck and the new roof deck. And you can't have parties on it. You can't have more than four people together after dark on the deck. You can't have any noise, any music and sleeping hours. So there's a whole set of rules. What is sleeping hours? 11 to 7. Okay. There's no audio visual equipment allowed on the deck area for our listen line. Okay. And we've had these procedures for our current roof deck in place since 2012. They were developed in collaboration with our neighbors. And since 2012, we've had no complaints from noise associated with them. And so we think these rules are such that they will mitigate noise. There is, you know, this roof deck faces starrow driving back bay. So that it's already got 50 to 70 dB of ambient noise, which is well above the noise limits for the city. So we don't expect there to be any significant noise associated with them. So tell us how these rules are enforced. They're basically enforced by the alumni house corporation through a combination of fines, and loss of use privileges. And so if they, you know, if, you know, first first, or first, or if enforce by the undergraduate chapter, they've got a self governing capability. And if, you know, if people violate the rules, they're fine. We get an indication from an alumni oversight point of view that there's a continuing activity, a continuing problem here. We can then go in and preclude their use for it. And a couple of summers ago, we actually did that. So that states midnight, and there's an issue up there. How does that get monitored or enforced? The rules get enforced. Absolutely. So with regard to what happens is, the alumni house corporation and the undergraduates provide their contact information to all our neighbors outside. So those neighbors and the contact doesn't matter to be in fraction that happens, but they use rules, and then the enforcement follows by the fine, the pressure, and the use of this. Or do the MIT cops come over? Or is there any role in that? So MIT, please, and we got my teammates speak about that later. But yes, MIT, please, if the neighbors also have their contact information usually, they can also reach out to the MIT police, if they need issues that they have. And MIT also monitors social activities. So if there is a party at the house, they have to have that approved by MIT before it happens, and they send a representative to check on the status of things in the course of such activities. Okay. How are the plans, can they? Any questions from the board? It looks like in the picture here, is it pipe, is it going to be piped for gas and cooking? Yes. Is that the intention? Yeah. Yeah. One aspect of this is currently, and you'll see in one of the photos in the set here, there's two side by side photos of the front of the building. Currently, the students keep a drill out in front of the house and a picnic table, which is a real eye sore. On the sidewalk? On the lawn in front of the house, long beacon street. So it's an eye sore, it's an annoyance to the neighbors. So part of what we're also doing is moving that activity away from the front of the house, providing a place on the deck where they can have that. It would be a hard piped gas system, which is a legal way to have a gas grill on a roof deck. So, take activities away from the street front, as well as what we spoke of earlier, putting the social spaces for the house down into the basement, with better soundproofing. Any other questions from the board? So, I'd like to have four people besides the representatives of the mayor's office speak in speak. So, all those in support, I need four people to speak in support, and plus representatives of the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. So, just before we started, I just want to make sure that we have five letters of opposition, and we also have 12 letters of support. Okay, so let's hear from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Faceshary with mayor's office of neighborhood services. We would like to go on record once more in support of this proposal. My colleague, Shanice Pimentel, did hold a community process around this. They have met with their neighbors, including director butters, and also the neighborhood association of Back Bay, which I'm sure will also speak on their own behalf. At this time, we would like to go on record and support based on the design, making it more ADA compliant for the full building. Also, they are moving outdoor activities as stated to the rear, and the roof deck is facing a store of drive. We also want to commend them on working with their director butters, regarding some of the restrictions that they mentioned about what's allowable activity there, and how they will go about making sure that the users of the roof deck are going to be respectful to the neighborhood surrounding them. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Patricia Mendez. The director of architectural access for the mayor's commission for persons with disabilities for the city of Boston. I'm going to read a brief letter. No, please just summarize it for us. We can put the letter in the record. Okay. Just summarize just like, just summarize it for us. Yes. The commission for persons with disabilities has met with the proponent and has reviewed the project and is delighted that this proponent is spending a significant amount of money and resources in adding an elevator and increasing accessibility in this building, and therefore creating a ripple effect for the community for persons with disabilities. And if you have any questions, you're welcome to answer. And we'd like that letter for the record. We have it. Okay. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chairman and members of the board. My name is Janet Bobbitt and my husband and I have lived at 414 Beacon Street as Director butters of the fraternity for the last 34 and a half years. We have found the brothers to be very amenable to resolving any issues. And in fact, for the last five to eight years, we have been meeting with the leadership brothers twice a year at the election of new officers and at the beginning of summer term. As a result of those meetings, we have revised the rules and regulations as far as noise, as far as kind, and we obtain their contact information so that we can contact them if there is an issue. And we have resolved the handful of problems that have occurred with regard to noise. I think it's also important that the use of the roof decks are limited to four people and would be less noise than in the front of the building at the present time. Also, the renovations that are being proposed for the basement and that is where the direct sound generates to the butters. There's increased insulation as well as dropping of the floor so we see that as a huge benefit. And in some, not to be repetitive, the renovations will be a boon to the 414 and the other neighbors who have not found an issue with the roof deck. Thank you. I'm glad to have you back. I'm here to support the members of the board. I'm here to support the members of the board. We are butters to the west, 125 year old institution in the back bay. I can tell you from the beginning of this project we have been communicated with. We have not found the things we feel comfortable with this process is in place. We have never had any issues to this point and do not expect to have any in the future. We would like to support this initiative. Thank you. Thank you. To additional neighborhood residents, please. Thank you. All sent. To our representatives up nav or community groups. Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. I'm Brad Badgerley. I'm the dean who oversees paternity and subordy life at MIT. I'm in my role I provide oversight and support of the 40% of our undergraduate students who are affiliated with a fraternity sorority or independent living group. We provide leadership development, risk management and responsible social host training and provide shared oversight in the houses and also train higher and supervise the graduate resident advisers. We call them GRAs that reside in each FSLG including this property. The fraternity sorority independent living groups at MIT are part of what we call a shared government's framework that includes the institute, the student led and a fraternity council judicial committee and the fraternity sorority independent living group alumni governing board. If community related issues arise within our system. Excuse me. Thank you. Yes. We support. Thank you. Of course. Last speaker please in support. Madam Chairwoman and members of the board. My name is Douglas Reeves. I live at 100 Beacon Street in the neighbor. What's your address again? What's your address again? 100 Beacon Street. 100. Okay. Just two quick items. Number one is a neighbor. I appreciate containing the, retaining the structural integrity and the architectural integrity of the property while still making essential renovations to keep it in good shape. And secondly, as a person with a significant disability, I particularly appreciate that they are able to have ADA compliance along with the renovations and architectural integrity necessary. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chair, members of the board, Elliot Laff from the neighbor association to back bay. Normally when I come here, I speak in non-opposition to projects because we try very hard to reach agreements with people. Sometimes there are issues of principle that we think that we can't reach an agreement on and this is one of those times. We're not speaking in opposition to the brothers at the fraternity. I think that they've generally been very, very good neighbors from all that I've heard and they're good people. But I'd like to point out a couple of things. One, there are a tremendous number of people. This is all about a deck. It's not about the interior renovations. It's not about the ADA work that they're doing inside. It's to make an ADA compliant deck, which sounds very nice. But there are thousands of us who live in the back bay who don't have decks. And that hasn't been a tremendous detriment to our ability to live there. I've lived there for 45 years and I haven't been on a deck yet in my building. Their property has been a fraternity for a very, very long time. And when it started there, the back bay was a very different kind of place. And higher education uses became forbidden uses after they got there. And so this is an expansion of something that wouldn't be allowed to begin with now. And we think that that expansion would be a bad thing. We note that as far as we know, none of the other fraternities in the back bay at least have roof decks. So that doesn't seem to be a detriment. So we're asking you to not allow the expansion of this deck that wouldn't have been allowed in any other way. So I know that interestingly the notice for this meeting and the description in the notice that I printed out online doesn't even mention the deck, which I thought was kind of an unusual way to describe a project where all that they're talking about is the deck. And we are very opposed to the addition of this deck. Thank you. Extension, I'm not going to use. Morning, Madam Chairman. My name is Susan Prandell. I'm co-chair of the Architecture Committee of the Neighborhood Association of Back Bay. We met with the proponents in September and we've met with them a couple of times since trying to work something out about this deck. At this point, we are supportive of their general renovation, but not of the deck as such. What were the issues that you were trying to do? There are really two reasons for this. One is I think despite everybody's good intentions, there will be an adverse impact to the abutters. And second is the precedent issue, which Mr. Laffer touched upon. While you can have a party on an upper deck and the noise will dissipate, if you have it down on the first floor right outside people's bedroom windows, they're going to hear it. And no matter how much the background noise is there, that's white noise that you don't really hear, but you do hear parties. And I'm a little confused about the occupancy limit, about the talk of only allowing for people, but you're having a grill there, which would imply that you would have larger functions. So I'm not quite sure how that all works, but the thing that sticks with us is the issue of more noise of having the disruption that's happened on the front, move to the back. And I don't think that's much better because it's really closer to people's bedrooms than it is now. The second issue, which Mr. Laffer touched on is the precedent. There are probably 50 grandfathered educational buildings in the back bay at the school of optometry is one of them who are watching with interest to see if the board will allow expansion of a non-conforming use. Without the deck, there would be no expansion issue. And I think that really it's what the Campbell's nose under the tent. It's something that will go come back to bite us later. We had a long discussion with Fisher College, a year or two ago, which was about the same issue. And we denied it and we were supported by the city at the time. The other thing is that I do think there are probably there are other options if they are for if the fraternity is forced to look at them that they can go back and perhaps get a variance so that they don't have to have two decks. They could at the end of the day eliminate both decks if necessary. So I know Fisher does not have an IMP. Right. That was that whole. Does it does MIT? I guess no. This is not for this is a fraternity so it wouldn't have an IMP. Yeah. So thank you for the chance to talk. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? Good morning. Jason Post. I live next door at 414 Beacon Street. I am probably the most impacted while the fraternity members are all pretty nice. Every Friday and Saturday night I can hear all the music in my bedroom in our living room. I'd say once every month and a half, either me or my wife have to text them asking them to turn down the music. The fraternity is good about turning the music down, but it's just a hassle to ask them to turn it down every single time we're trying to go to bed or... Oh yeah, the parties don't start until 10 or 11. And my problem is is that where this roof deck is is right next to my living room. My son's bedroom is right down below that. And I don't want to have to hear noise during the day and then have to hear the music from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. every day. I brought some pictures of this is the beginning of the school year scene outside of the fraternity. You know, even though I don't think hot tubs are allowed in the front yard, they still, you know, just because there's rules. I have no problem if they had a roof deck that only had four people on it, but that's the first I've ever heard of it. And I can't imagine there were only four people on there at any time. Let's just add some. Thank you. Anybody else who speak in opposition? The last last voice. Excuse me. My name is Steve Palmer. I live at 404 Beacon Street. And we've lived there about 45 or 6 years. And they've had a long association with the back bay and with the city. And I'm going to follow the lead of the neighborhood association in thinking that the pressures that are on the city currently from within and without are so great that the scrambling for space will go on. And it will fill these cracks if it's allowed to do it. And I think that we really need to be respectful of what has been laid down in the past for good reason. And we have a limited space of 425 acres. And we have to be very careful of it. Thank you. Thank you. Anything to respond? Yes. Just a couple of comments. Nothing for us, no, please. Just keep it on the issue. Yes. Relative to the rules, relative to the use of this roof deck, will preclude parties after dark. Will we include, will limit people after dark to four people? There may be with the grilling during an after Saturday afternoon or a Sunday afternoon, and we're going to be doing a grilling activity in the middle of the day. So is there, is the gas toned off at a magical hour so that there is no late evening barbacuing out there? We haven't included that in the design, but we would be certainly willing to entertain that sort of a strategy. Well, it does say it stops at 9 o'clock. Right. So it stops at 9 o'clock on the barbacue. Yes. And the comments from our neighbor about parties starting at 11, those are parties inside the house to the design that we're proposing of taking the noise down, down into the back of the house, should alleviate some of that. And there are no parties outside the house on the roof deck. And either the current one we have now or the one we're proposing. The only reason you're here today is for the roof deck on top of the garage. Yes. And it's the, we've wrestled with competing requirements in order to institute this project and satisfy ADA compliance. And then, generally, the issues we face is not the project, but bad behavior by students. And so when you see students with park benches in the front yard or, you know, spilling over onto the sidewalk, it does change the quality of life for residents. And the question is, you know, how is it better monitored by whatever it is who needs to monitor it? There's nothing to preclude the internal renovation from happening and a show by the fraternity and the college of a good faith effort. And then, you know, there's an option to come in with the deck at a future. So there's ways of slicing this. But anyway, it's just me being on my little thing. So, may I have a motion? I just had a quick question, though. I mean, bring up a good point. I mean, is there security? Is there anybody there that there's monitoring besides cameras that I see that are going to be watching people? So what the only camera that we've added to the plan is that you've noted the undergraduates, one of the house corporation, also, on the institute. Now third party, we'll call it security handling the doors and the checking. And so I understand a neighbor has a photo from some time ago potentially. But we've still been doing that as a formal process now based on some of the comments. So how does that work? So I use my student ID to get in the door through an electronic process? So what happens now is, what is happening is we hire a third party company who does the security for letting people in. They check the IDs, they check the guest list, they check the occupancy. So, the person is on site. Yes, I believe there's two. And sometimes there's even three if it's needed, depending on what type of time is being held. So that's something that we're doing. Also, the difference I want to point out is that the reason we're doing all these renovations and all these thoughts is to clean up some of these things that people have had issue with previously. But that's the reason for this data to be made with space in the basement that we're talking about. It just went a quick night because there's a good question. That's a employee of MIT. We do have security systems in place. And I want to make sure that it's also the size that our policies are not even low. Students to be on the roof that we're up next to our apartment. That's casual use of. We define that and they clarify that with our students. So that was one of those points now. Additionally, we, MIT, we experimented as several controls on paper, but they also stuff like every rest your advantage are opposite groups or where we're just going to make sure you get that point. Yeah, just one thing on. So we're talking about the four people at a time. But that's four people together. So if I wanted to bring four people, three people up there, then another group could have three people. So the total is that the total people to prior to dark gets as many people as the occupancy allows. But the area of the deck allows a maximum of 49 people, which I think is more than they could put up there really with furniture. So by building code, that would be the maximum occupancy. So is there an option then to just have a small adec so you don't have 49 people out there, you know, out there until 11 o'clock or something like that. Yeah, I mean, we could we could limit the size a little bit farther. I mean, I'd like to point out that as it's designed currently, it's held 12 feet back from the from back streets. So it's not really visible from back streets. We have a lot about the butter who has a young child. Yeah. So there in this view here, which is an area of you looking down on the proposed deck. This is a brick wall that separates their unit from our side. Part of the work that we're doing is repointing this wall also to help seal it up so that sound can't get through. So what kind of buffer is there just point. Yes, just on the outside is just repointing inside we're doing we're adding insulation to the walls down where the social spaces out here also there, you know, there are no windows along this wall facing the deck. There are windows down at the end of this and you can see there are some photos that I added here. There's also some aerial views that show you how there are numerous similar roof decks on top of the arches down back street. And at the very back page, there's just a view from back streets. You can sort of see the situation at the location here. So one last question would help prolong any here. I know that we need to come to a vote here, but what I didn't see anything time frame wise. So we approved one at down at two international place of roof deck, but their parameters on that no winter deck. Anybody's out there in the deck. So people out there in the winter time as well. I guess they're currently could be we had envisioned that being the case and if it's something that's helpful, we definitely entertain restrictions on seasonal use of the roof deck. It's not very attractive winter time. Well, people are going to go up there. I said that's something that I would help in terms of our stricken access during the winter time. I don't know if it went to time or a season time. I mean, we just looked at outdoor seating from April 15 to October 15. So if, for example, we're interested in doing something like that from the April till October timeframe, I hear discussing them. That's something that would be open to put as part of this project as well. I just want to remind you that the primary reason we're doing this deck is accessibility. So from our perspective, it's an extension of a non-conforming use. And we just need to keep that focus on this. So given all this information, may I have a motion, please? And since this is an extension of the non-conforming use, we should just think clearly about what will make this work if there's a motion for approval. But, you know, we can also entertain a motion for denial without prejudice. So the applicant can come back with a different version. I'd like to make a motion to deny without prejudice. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. I'm calling it an X case. Calling B-O-A-1015422-411-SHOMMIT-AVANU. This is to add a new roof deck with viral staircase frame, new skylight open as replacing roof and renovated bathroom. This is built in code only by the way. The violations, the ninth edition, 780 CMR, 1011, stairways, 1011.12.2, roof access, where a stairway is provided to a roof. Access to the roof shall be provided through a penthouse, complying with second 15, 10, 0.2, access to roof hatch is not permitted. Ninth edition, 780 CMR, 1011, stairways, 1011.3, headroom. Spiral stairway, complying with section 1011.10 are permitted in a 78-inch headroom clearance. Headroom clearance is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. My name is Adam Grassey, architect for the owner, company's Huck Design, Portland, Maine. Okay, so tell us what you're proposing to do. To recap, we are appealing a building code violation. We are proposing a hatch which will limit or restrict the roof, the accessible height at a proposed spiral stair. We were here the last time and we needed to just make sure we were up to speed. Mr. Kendell, if you have a chance to look at everything on this request for building code relief. Okay, so you're asking for relief from building code to put up a hatch. I can walk you through briefly if that would be helpful. Yes, please. We are proposing this hatch at the top of a proposed spiral stair which will access a roof deck. The reason that we are proposing this hatch is because an interpretation of the South End zoning code determined that the only permissible roof decks in the South End are those that are accessed by a hatch or a headhouse. When we proposed the spiral stair from a lower deck to access this upper deck, it was rejected on the grounds that it was not accessed by a stair or a headhouse. The addition of this hatch resolved that problem. That also created the building code violation. To be clear, this hatch can be fixed in an open position and will present no hazard to the occupants of the building. Okay, so may I have a motion on this please? To grant building code relief. Motion to grant building code relief. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next case, calling B-O-A-9590-27, Thornley Street. There was a companion case. I'm going to call it a wreck because it's still on here. B-O-A-956275 for building code. But building code is being withdrawn. So we don't need to go through that. So do we need a motion for that? Was it done last night? It was done, bullet, and it's a plans examiner. Okay, so it's seven. Motion to deny building code. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. So tell us about that. I didn't read it. I could have read it into the record. So this is the changes into a fight protection and a new rare exterior staircase to place inside stair. Create storage areas and basement. Not to be living space. Change the second floor pantry to an open porch. Create a third floor red deck. Change the first and second floors to open concept kitchens with LVLs and three bedrooms and baths. The violation is Article 65, Section 9. The rare yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board Attorney Jeff Drago with Drago and to Scott Open Address of 15 Broad Street. With me is the owner, Ellington Jackson and the architect, John Garland, for the project. So the real reason you're here is for that third floor rear deck. Correct. So that's the occupancy of the building. So it's a three unit condominium building. It was approved a while back in 2017. This was an amendment to make some changes and add a deck to the back that included a rare egress stair. That caused us to be a 21 feet one inch in our rear setback. 30 is required. So this project had initially in 2017 come before this board. Correct. Was there any proviso on that? Just design review, Madam Chair. So what caused this rear egress stair violation? So what it was is when the deck, so there are two existing decks on the first and second floor. He was looking to match that on the third floor and then connect an egress stair for another way. Second means of egress already when the project was approved? There was a second means of egress on the first floor building sprinklered. However, by adding that deck to the back, it caused us to trigger that rear violation. And what removed, last time we were here, the real question was around the building code violation on this. And the reason that was corrected was we instituted a direct line sprinkler system as opposed to tanks. So that building code violation was removed. The egress stair still remains an ISD at commode and asks that it actually stay on the property. Did it remain there as an additional safety feature and access from the deck? And what's the dimension of that deck? About 120 feet. It looks roughly about 120 feet. And does it match the bottom two? Correct, exactly the same. How would the plan some... Drone's ready. I'm sorry? Drone's ready. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, I remember just the board, Patrick Van L. Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and full support of this project. There was no butters meeting held on site and he's worked with his butters to accommodate all concerns. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Motion or proof? Second. Second. All those in favor? All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Well, the next case, calling B-O-A-948-772-99 Brook Street. Does this seek to renovate the existing structure? The other change the occupant from a single family dwelling to a two family dwelling construct new dormers, expand living space to the basement and attic. The violation is Article 51, Section 8. Use of a two family dwelling is forbidden. Article 51, Section 9, the building height and number of stories is excessive. Article 51, Section 9, side yard is insufficient. Article 51, Section 56, Austria-Pocking. Is this the face? May I have an address for the record please? Madam Chair, I remember this is the board. My name is Daniel Rosgano from Dregal and Suscanos. Attorneyate law. Located at 15, Broad Street, Boston, Mass, O2109. To my mere right is the architect of the proposed at 99 Brook Street, Benjamin Ling, and to my far right is the owner of the property, Ms. Chen. Ms. Chen purchased a property within the last year. The property has been vacant. It's a single family. It's within a 1F-5000 residential sub-district. What we're asking is approval to change this from a single family to a two family residential unit, which is going to be owner occupied from Ms. Chen and her son, who's going to occupy the second unit of approval. By applying for the renovations and the change of use, we encountered some zoning co-violations that were seeking relief. The first one is the new street. It's a 1F-5000 residential sub-district. The property currently sits on a 10,000-squiff foot loft, so there's plenty of open space and good size enough for a two family. Across the street is a two family residential sub-district. There's plenty of two families and three families, and also single families across the street. On the same side of our street, to our right is a single family and a number of single families. There are also a number of two families to our immediate left, and going down to the street, there are a number of people. What do you have to have the, sorry, tell us about the dormers, the size of the dormers and how they were built? I'll defer to Ms. Ling and regards to the size, but the dormers are going to be on the right side of the property. So if you're facing the property on the right side, it's just going to provide some additional living space that create that third story, which creates a violation. The height of the property is not changed, and it's going to remain at 32 feet, I think 32-9. It's going to remain the same height, but it's going to create a third story. The attic space is going to be approximately a little bit over 400 square feet creating that almost a duplex unit of a little above 1300 square feet in terms of the size I'll pass it on to Ms. Ling. So the second unit will have any bedrooms? Well, to that one, three bedrooms. The three bedrooms, unit number one is approximately 1400, I'm sorry, 2000 square feet of living space. It's a three bedroom, 2 1 1 1 half bath. That's going to be occupied by Ms. Chen. That's upstairs and downstairs. On the downstairs level, you're going to have bedroom and some family room space and bathrooms. On the first floor level, you'll have two bedrooms living space in a bedroom, and then the unit number two is going to be approximately 1300 square feet, which is a three bedroom, two bath. On the second level, you're going to have two bedrooms kitchen in living space, and upstairs is just going to be a one bedroom occupied, just put a bedroom up there with some closet space. The added total number of living space that we are creating is approximately 1300 square feet of living space for the higher property. The floor to ceiling high currently is about 7 4. We are going to make adjustments to that to get it to about 7 6. There is. There are currently there are several windows that are all around the property and they will remain. There is no proposed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no So each unit will have a water heater and that's going to be within each unit. Each unit's going to have a unit. Yeah, since we're units. Yeah, and so they don't have to cross units. Yeah, separate units. Yeah. Okay. Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services, like going back and support this proposal. We conducted an abouters meeting back on May 30th. They went on to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, also got their support as well. We're looking for the applicant being a good neighbor in the community. Thank you. Afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polonko, and we have a Councillor Cielmoe. Councillor Electrical Recreation Support. Chair, we'll be members of the board and I welcome them to the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We will support this. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. And that's with no co-relief? Yeah, no bill in co-relief. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You and carries are outside. Madam Chair, members of the board, thank you for your time. Happy holidays. So, following the next case, calling BOA 875-587-25 Bentley Street. This is a demolition of an existing building and built and structure for a three-family dwelling. The violation of 51 Section 9, the front-end setback is insufficient. Article 51 Section 9 is a radio setback is insufficient. Article 51 Section 9, the employee of the original successive. Article 51 Section 8, a three-family dwelling unit is the bid news. And Article 53 Section 9, the height is excessive in stories. Thank you. Aiman address, further, echo please. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jeff Drago, with Drago and Tuscana, with an address of 15 Broad Street. Here representing Daniel Dichman, the owner of 25 Bentley Street, as well as Henry Bobbick, the architect on the project. This is a proposal to raise the existing structure, single-family structure, and erect a three-unit condominium building with six rare parking spaces on the site. The lot size, one of the larger lots in the area, are at 8,263 square feet. I will go over the layout. These are all three bedroom, two bath units, kitchen living room, with smaller rear decks in the back. The sizes range from 1,600 to 1,720 square feet per unit. Our violations, as was mentioned, it is a two-F district, or proposing three units. Our rear setback is 20. What's required is 30. Our front yard, we believe we meet at 21 now, because we remember 20, which is required. And we are now at a .6 FAR, so both of those violations should be removed. What is your FAR? .6. .6. You are meeting near here or at part of the area? Correct. We have made a number of changes to the project. Over time, these originally were townhouses. Community asked that we do something else. We came back with more of a three-family looking building, and they asked us to have the pitch-droof and a look like that. We also agreed to make these home ownership deed restricted units as well, and working with the BAA. And so along with our design changes for the front exterior of the building, I can answer any questions the board may have. It's a driveway access on the right side. Madam Chair, who goes into the rear, but there is still plenty of open space in the front and back quadrant of the building, shown on the site plan. How are the plans? No. I don't see any mechanical. There is a basement area that those will go, and then water heaters into the units. Water heaters will all be in every unit. I have a question for the board. Madam Chair, members of the board, Conor Nguyen with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. We conducted three of our meetings. We had a meeting with the applicant who worked closely with the constituents to address some of the concerns of changing so that the character of the building matches with that of the neighborhood. So as they mentioned, deed restrictions that was a big ask from the Civic Association, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association, and the residents themselves. Because they were able to agree to that, they were satisfied. And as we'd like to go and support them. Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polonko, on behalf of Councillor Cielmo, Councillor Lektin, go on the record and support as well. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We voted to approve this. We asked for a proviso for the Home Ownership. Be deeded. Yes, that's usually something we cannot do, because we cannot go into ownership. So that we ask that the attorney for the property owner write a contract? Yes. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? They are having motion. Motion will approve a BPD design review. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. I can take five, a 10 minute break. These will be being asked to have motion. 150. 150. I'm off set. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For the 1130s and then we'll go ahead with the recommendations. Just a reminder please make sure your cell phones are off. And in conformance with the open meeting law, I'm informing you that this meeting is being live streamed. So generally when we have a room full of people, we know that there is a lot of people in support, a lot of people in opposition. So the last today is the representative. So if you have a room full of people in support, please come to the table. What we ask is that the elected officials speak first either in support or in opposition in both cases. Okay, five people in each case. So you should think ahead of time about who's going to represent you either in support or in opposition. Please give us new information. When you're up there give us new information because we are fact finding. So use your time wisely. We'll circulate a piece of paper so that everybody who's here in this room can put their name and address down so we know whether you're in favor of your opposition. We only want to hear about the merits of the case. Is this a good billboard? Is this billboard good for the community or not? Period the end. I don't want to hear anything else. Okay. So let's focus on that. And five people. No, five people means five residences. But so civic organizations, of course, do get to represent community at a larger scale. Okay. So I think I've given every piece of information that I need to give. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call the last case of the day. For case B08 91904388 to 94 Lincoln Street. This is to erect a 14 foot by 48 foot two sided digital billboard on a monopole. Violations at a go 51 section 17. The height is excessive. At a go 51 section 17. The front yard 51-52.1 street wall continuity 51-57.2. The C.V.C. down. The article 51 section 55 billboards are forbidden. Name and address. Fuller. Good afternoon. My name is Mike Ross. I'm an attorney with the law firm of Prince Low Bell. I'm here today representing Maverick Media for the aforementioned. Maverick Media is a certified women's own business. It's principal. It's president. It's next to me, Val Barsem. I have a question at 88-94 Lincoln Street. Does land itself to the relief that we're requesting. Given its proximity to the Massachusetts term pike, the light pollution, the street noise, the access, the exhaust pollution affiliate with that. I had sent a previous memo to the board so that you could have a little more information. Friday, and I think you should have received that. It also complies with the 500-foot regulation that requires one billboard to not be within 500 feet of another billboard. And I think herein lies really the points we want to get into. There is nearly a section of the Massachusetts term pike where you can find a 500-foot vacancy or opportunity for a new placement. So what separates this particular billboard from any other billboard, I think is the good it will do for the surrounding community. I would say the first thing is that this is not a billboard that's being proposed by a large communication corporation. It's being proposed by a single individual, Val Barsem, who used to work in the industry who learned about the industry. And one day said, you know, I can do this and I'd like to do this. And that's what she's doing here today. And as a result, she went out into this community and did an exhaustive community outreach effort. And one of the packets I sent to you, I gave you the plans. Can you please now talk to us about the merits of the case. Give us a description of what the billboard is, what building it's on. I'm assuming it's a new billboard. It's not replacing anything. That's correct. This is a two-sided billboard that would sit on a monopole on the property itself next to a one-story existing building at 94 Lincoln Street. And what is that building? It's an industrial one-story building. It's depicted. What is the name of this? American cleaning company. And they're currently operating. And the I... This will be on their site. That's correct. This would be a lease on their site. The billboard is angled in such a way that if you go to the last page of the pack that I provided to you, the technology, this page, this last, the smaller page. Yes. Sorry for all the problems. No problem. What is the project to be approved? You need five filming votes. I just want to make sure that everybody is aware of that. Absolutely. You're a six-member board. Yep. And we will be proceeding with that knowledge. Thank you. I think what's interesting about this billboard is that it contains a certain technology that you don't see light emanating from it from an angle. You really only see it from dead-on because of the way the LEDs are set into the structure themselves. And the last page shows you the difference between the old technology and the new technology. You really don't see it when you're on a scance to it. And so, as a result of BAL's efforts to reach out to this immediate community, we were able to... You know, we fully acknowledge there is some opposition, but we were able to reach out and get letters of over 300 and around 350. Before we go, I'm going to ask you a question. So this is a 14 by 48, but the billboard is going to be proposed to be 14 by 48. Is that right? I'm looking at it. And how tall is that pole? It's 60 feet tall. So, 60 feet to the... To the top of the board, that's correct. To the top of the board. Yeah, A dash 1.1. That's correct. Okay. And in fact, she actually lowered it, I think, by five feet through the community process, so it comes down a little bit. Okay. What's the top of the building? The top of the building is 20 feet. So, it's a good 40 feet above the building. Yeah, that's correct. That's correct. And I know there are certain regulations about the amount of light. Tell us about that. Yeah. Rightly in that they are, and are you going to have public service announcements or anything like that? Yeah, I think that's the key to this particular proposal. In terms of the light, I mentioned to you that you will not see the light if you're standing off to the side, given the technology. So, the light will be directed directly onto the inbound and outbound sides of the master's term spike. This particular proposal has 100 hours, is it 100 hours over the course of a month, which is well beyond the industry standard of any other company that will give back to community-based organizations. I'm not interested in that. I just want to know, like, what percentage? Because we are here to look at the merits of the billboard, itself, as a structure. So, tell us about your public service announcement out of, you know, 100%. There's a state, I'm Madame Chair, on the lighting. It's .03 foot candles, which is all regulated by the state. Yeah. And the PSAs are also regulated by the state. You have to give us a certain percentage. I believe it's 15 hours a month for the state. But we are going beyond that, as I said, you know, not to be repetitive, that we're giving 100 hours a month, which is basically one flip of the board. We're giving one digital flip to the community, to the city. And is that peak hours or? It's the whole, it's, however long it's running. It's not going to be designated for hours as, you know, it's something. And then I know that this board has approved certain billboards in the past, like at the W and other locations, by Fenway Park, for example, and residents have complained about that being too glaring. So, how is that going to be controlled? Well, so, there's this new light blocking technology that Michael spoke about. Like, it's an added feature that you put on the boards. It's more expensive, but it's something that is done regularly now. It's called light, light, sight-line technology, and that's what we're going to implement as well. Do we have a picture of what it would look like? I see that, you know, obviously the great pictures of the warriot arena across the way at the mass spike. Do we have anything that shows where it would be on the property? Well, I mean, the best I have are the three sets of plans. I see that, but it really doesn't show the height looking what it would look like. And obviously the elimination. Yeah. You know, since I've taken this case, I've been driving when I drive down the mass term pike. I've noticed now all these billboards. And it's going to take its place really in the order of all the billboards on the mass-trips term pike. So that when viewed from the term pike, it will be right up around the height. 60 feet is right up around the height of what the other billboards are and where they're set. And it will just kind of feed its way into that rhythm of what's happening on the term pike. The thing that's different is it's the digital billboard. And so unlike just a static billboard that has a one page, I mean, that advertises an ad, public service announcements, emergency announcements, and things that are now more than ever, I think needed in the community will be broadcast on that and the other boards as you go. And so in a miniature city, it's not uncommon, especially a place where the mass term pike runs through it, to have these types of communication devices there. I wish I had a kind of an artist rendering of what it's going to look like, but it will take its place similar to what you see there now. The other thing I wanted to point out is that, you know, in this pack I sent you ahead of time, I did, I provided a map that showed I think 39 billboards. I had been approved in the last few years through this board and some are digital and some are static. Certainly not limited to those three small areas within Fenway Park in downtown. And I think that makes sense because the desire to have this type of network of communication along the entire term pike, for visitors and tourists and residents, makes sense. The need for information is being driven outside of just a certain set area within the city. And that's why you're seeing these applications coming before you. The reason why I keep coming back to the community process is because it's substantial. It's not just something that was done just to cover up bases. It was done, I would suggest that people in this room are not evenly split. The majority of this room is in favor of this application. We lost Councillor Garrison who was here that she dropped off her packet of letters of support. She was going to be here to support this application in person because of the number of emails letters that she received into her office. And so we wanted to point that out because it's indicative of the level of effort and outreach that Val has done with her company to reach out to the varied people who will benefit from being noticed on this board. So just to clarify for my fellow board members, the Austin Brighton zoning makes billboards of forbidden use. And that has pretty much carried through to quite a number of neighborhoods. I think neighborhood residents, long term neighborhood residents can speak to how many have been approved in the time that the zoning went into effect in 91. So anything else you'd like to inform us about? Because then we can go and get some press the money. Sure, maybe I can come back on the back side of that. Is anybody here to speak and support? And we would like to have elected officials or representative of elected officials to speak and then have representatives civic associations and then community members. Madam Chair, I'm James the board of Paul Sullivan. I'll be honest with the council lodge Michael Flarey. Councilor DeGone, record and support. The proponent went through an extensive community process and has gained over 300 signatures in support. And I'd like to mention the support of the newly organized civic association, North Brighton Austin civic group. Like to mention that there have been that there is opposition to this billboard. But it's a council's opinion that the support from the director butters and the proponents commitment to engage and promote community groups in associations and to clean out ways the opposition in this matter. Therefore at this time he'd like to go and record and support. Thank you. Good afternoon Madam Chair and board members. My name is Steve Tompkins. I'm the Suffolk County Sheriff. There are several reasons why I'm in support of this initiative. Principally because a billboard would speak to what's going on in my world. My world is dominated by people that have substance abuse issues, mental health issues, educational issues. And so to have a billboard on the highway that speaks to the need for people to really roll up their sleeves and work with us and work with others to address this very grievous situation with opiate exploitation as well as mental health issues as well as educational issues. Unfortunately, unfortunately my department is a de facto mental health substance abuse and education facility. And so therefore having public service announcements on the highway serves us well. This is something that we've done in the past and that has also served us well. Secondarily, I'm here to support Val Barson who is a friend of mine who is working mightily to get this information out. I don't speak to the commercial side. That's not in my business. But I do speak to the citizens that I have to work with and care for in Suffolk County. And so this is a way that we can get messaging out, particularly to our youth to stay out of trouble, to stay out of harm's way and to stay out of my facilities. I'm all for that. So therefore I also support this effort. Thank you so much. My name is Joseph Carino. I'm a business agent at the Painters and Allied Trades District Council 35. I represent the sign of pictorial local 391. Maverick media has made a commitment to confirm to community area standards on wages and benefits. Maverick media is in the process assigning. They will be a signatory contractor and with local 391. So for the record, District Council 35 is in support of this project. Thank you. I have no Madam Chair Chairman of the Board. My name is Hong Goon. I represent the North Brighton Austin Civic Group. We formed recently because we feel this billboard is near property and there's a lot of issues we need to take care of. Like we meet with Chinese and English so that for a lot of the people that lives in the neighborhood. Excuse me, sir. Can you tell me about the reason for your support for this particular billboard? Okay, so we support what Maverick media is going to provide the sound barrier along Lincoln Street and the rolling control that we have issues with in the neighborhood. And also they're going to provide a public message there and with Austin Brian, there's a lot of Chinese speaking people. And her size, the likes could make it Chinese sign with English so for all could understand if there's emergency. So I'm here to represent those people that support it for my group. So hopefully, thank you. Good morning. Should I say good afternoon now? I want to echo with Sheriff Tom. Hold on for one minute. Put your name and address the record. My name is John Hoffman. I'm a lifelong resident of Austin Brighton, 16 a.d.a. road. And I've been running youth programs for 40 years in Austin Brighton and I wanted to echo what Sheriff Tompkins had said. For the past 16 years, I've been director of the fishing academy charity and we work with the Boston police. We've taken over 7,000 kids from the Boston area. So your support to your resident and your in support of this? I am in support. One of the things we teach. I just need to talk about the billboard. Yes, but I want to give the reasons why I supported as well. We teach an anti-drug and alcohol message with our partners from the Boston police department. And I'm here today. The main reason I'm here is the proponents of the billboard saved a family member of my life. Save this life. Okay? And so I'm very passionate about that. We've lost a lot of kids to a terrible disease in the Austin Brighton community. And to me, the word community means helping people, not turning your back on people that need help the most. So I'd love to stop you, please. Okay? You can see there's a room full of people and there are others in line. So thank you for, because I think it's clear that you're echoing the sentiments of the sheriff. So we get it. We need to share it. Well, not just the sheriff, but the 300 people from that neighborhood and the many families that have lost somebody in that neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Kevin Luke. I live at 15th, Calthar, road in Brighton. I just went over this looking to, I guess I've been a resident of Brighton for 49 years and God willing another 50. I grew up in Brighton. I've been very active in the community in Little League, softball, presentation schools, et cetera. And like I said, did neighborhood. So please tell us what your support is based on. No, I have a question for you. Yes. You have comments right here and tell us the reason for this. Here's my reason. Okay. As grown up in Brighton, coaching in various sports activities in Brighton. I've seen awesome bright and changed so much going from three little leagues down to one. I saw it, et cetera. What happens is with the billboard, it's going to enable the community to see what's out there and what the activity that Maverick's wanted to give back into the community. I feel that it's very, it's going to be a very game changing situation for the community. We're by, we can get more youths back into the groups, knowing what's, what's out there available for them. Okay, thank you. Thank you. So this is your resident number three. I am a former resident, three generations in all of this. What's your name and address on the record? Rob Jelly. Okay. And your address? I'm a resident in Melrose, Mass. Okay. 2.81 Street. Okay. And tell us what your support is based on. I am supporting Maverick Media. As I said, I'm a third generation. And it's fine just to see your support. So that's because everybody else may have already stated the reason for this. Yeah. For me, it's a little simpler. The MassPite came through, divided our community. I think it's time they give back. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Vijay. I'm the CEO of Coronado House, the Surrey Covering Home. We located right over there on 70th, Adamson. Yeah. And I'm more interested in the public service announcements and helping us to accept our residents in the community, getting some respect for them. It's absolutely necessary that they are accepted. So thank you. Thank you. We have room for one more resident who wants to speak in support. Okay. Is any, is, okay. So please put your name and address on the record. Hi, my name's Doug. I live on 83 Antwerp Street right off of Lincoln. Yeah. So I'm in support of this billboard because along the Lincoln Street, there's a bunch of billboards. But I haven't seen any added benefits that these companies have provided for us. And the valve reached out to us in our, in our neighborhood. And it's helping us build our community better. And I specifically want it because I would like a sound barrier built along the MassPike. And our road in issues. I went to the school at BU, both undergrad and grad school. And that part of Austin-Brion is called Rat City for a Reason. So I would like those issues taken care of. And I think this is a good company to work with. They've done a good job reaching out to us. Thank you. Okay. So now is, people who are speaking in opposition may have representatives of elected officials first. Community organizations next. And then five residents, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Marriage Office and Neighborhood Services. We conducted an extensive community process. We received feedback from a number of residents. We had a new butters meeting back in July. The applicant has made great efforts to engage members of the community. However, upon reviewing our process with our office, we feel we cannot go in record and support of this proposal. There's a number of concerns from residents and civic associations. I'll let them speak to that. But we're on record and supply in opposition. Thank you. What exactly was the opposition? What were they opposed to? They're here as well. No, the mayor's office. For the community feedback. Yeah, just in the right of the process, the residents that we've heard of, you know, we don't feel that this is the right move for the neighborhood. Thank you. Afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Daniel Polonko, we have a Councillor Marx Yomo, Councillor Electrical Record and Opposition. Members of the board, on behalf of Councillor Yomo, who could make it today. Due to the schedule and conflict, he likes to extend your gratitude to all the board members that have definitely served our city during the Councillor's 12-year in office. The city's growth and prosperity during the recent economic boom has been possible in no smart part. But because the board members both pass and present. To the end of the final time, our office will be testifying me for this board as District 9 City Councillor. Councillor is thankful for your thoughtful deliberation over hundreds of cases that you've heard over this time in our office. And for the friends and respect that you've treated our staff in our neighborhood. And it's for myself. I've been here for seven years. I've learned a lot. And I'm thankful for all your service and working alongside. So I'm going to put you on the spot. Support opposition. In opposition. Okay. Daniel, please give the Councillor a best from all the board. And we hope we'll see you around because you've added a lot of value over the years as you've come to this board and watched you mature in the way you give us all good information. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Thank you so much. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Jessica, would you like to go on record? Yes, and she would like to go on record and opposition. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, for the Bright and Austin Improvement Association. We voted against this billboard. That your board voted last year against this billboard. They're back again. It is an article 51 of forbid and use. It's not replacing a non-conforming grandfather billboard. It's a brand new one. Our major concern is opening the door for more billboards to be built with going against article 51. If you approve it, it should be changed in the zoning code against a forbid and use. Right now it's a forbid and use. Our community is against it. Val did a great job outreaching and she did reach a lot of community members and we respect their opinions. But this is more about going against something in article 51 that is a forbid and use. If we're changing it, we should change the article 51. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Dizadoro representing the Austin Civic Association. I'm actually going to stick to the merits of the proposal, except in one instance. They mentioned building a sound barrier on Lincoln Street as part of the Austin I-90 project. That is going to happen on Lincoln Street. The state is going to pay for it and it's already in the plan. And road and control, there's a very robust 3-1-1 system in the city. The residents should take advantage of that. We are very prideful at the Austin Civic Association that we have sort of rebuilt the organization where we're getting now a very diverse group. We're getting roughly 50 to 70 people a month to show up at the meeting and it cuts right across the entire community. So we feel like we're much more representative body than we've ever been before. That evening we had 48 voting members there. The vote was 48 to nothing and it cut across all racial lines that cut across young old, long time residents, home owners, rentes, you name it, 48 to nothing. I also want to bring to your attention that right now undergoing article 80 review 20 feet away from the site is a proposal for a 32 unit condominium building that you'll be hearing about fairly soon at 100 to 110 Lincoln Street. The reason why I mentioned it is not just because it's going to be next door and you're going to have a 60 foot billboard right beside it on the front of the property by the way my good friend councilor Austin get too specific on that it actually sits on the front of the property. So Tony just keep please keep to it. Yes I'm going to keep to the thing. So that's important to note and the reason why I know this is the Lincoln Street Carter and I think as the chair, Madam Chair knows is transforming it the Lincoln Street Carter butts an existing residential community and now what's happening is with various projects, the Harvard University, Pennamons Street, this project that's coming up at Lincoln the condo project, even the corridor is getting more residential so the community is changing and my understanding was the city and state doesn't like putting billboards in a residential community and just a couple more notes because I know there's a number of people that want to come forward. But people don't realize is that even though the majority of the site is zone NS one, if you look at the back portion of the site, there's a small section of it that's actually in a 3 F 4000 sub district so it's actually in a residential sub district. The thought process about the progress that this neighborhood is made and to put a billboard in this location certainly would have a negative impact on that neighborhood in terms of property values and their efforts to bring the community back. So I think it's important and then the final point I'll just make is Madam Chair and members of the board, we have yet to meet the owner of the property. As you notice, he is not here today. If he was so confident that this project benefited the Austin Brighton community, he'd be out engaging us and gushing as the contribution he's making to our community. He doesn't have the guts to show up in public and meet the neighborhood. I have a couple of questions for you. I'm looking at this map and once you talked about 100 to 110 Lincoln Street, didn't the Mormon Church also get approval for a house there? A little further down Madam Chair at the corner of Lincoln Street and Everett Street is the Church of Scientology. That's right. And then across the street, from them is Havid, oh yes, Stop and Show. I hear Havid, you know, just saw something in the papers about to stop and shop. That's what I've proved. Putting that residential up there. The owner of Havid and Everett, Madam Chair, Havid University is ground leasing to Berkeley investments. You know that shell over building that has been up for 20 years? Then there's a couple of residences that have been proposed. That's correct. And the Wyoming. Okay. Birmingham Park with the Con of Birmingham and Lincoln Street is a condo building going up there as well. So there's significant change taking place in that area. And we look upon this as a step backwards, Madam Chair. We want you and the board to help us move this community forward, especially this neighborhood, and a billboard will be taking a major step back. Thank you. So now is it the residents here? Five residents? No, I represent the Brighton-Elston Community Coalition. Okay. And I just before I begin, I just want to make sure you have two visionals that I have. Okay. My name is Joanne Delcomo. I'm Vice Chair Brighton-Elston Community Coalition, which was formed in early 2018. We have hundreds of members, all residents of Austin or Brighton. We are against this billboard proposal that is a repeat of the one rejected on May 23rd, 2017. And we are against it for the following reasons. One is that it would distort the whole process for granting variances. And why do we say this? We say this because the specific legal criteria require that the proponent prove that there are special circumstances or conditions at the property, such that the use of the property would be deprived of the reasonable use of the landry system. So that's the variance. Can you tell us other reasons because we know what the standards are in the zoning code is there, anything else you want to add? Yes, because there has been a business there successfully for many years. The current owner has owned the building since 1997. It's 94 Lincoln LLC. And that same owner, this cross-ownership, Joseph Sullivan, who is the manager of that LLC. Also is the manager of American cleaning company, which has been operating successfully for many years. So the whole premise of the granting of variances, that the reasonable use of the land be deprived of it, if you don't have a variance, that you need it for the reasonable use of the land, it would make a mockery of the granting of variances. If this board were to say that the land couldn't be reasonably used without this variance, because it has been for many years, and the owner isn't here to say otherwise. Another reason is that totally apart from the fact that the proponent has not met its burden, and the proponent has the burden of establishing those legal criteria are met, you see in the visuals where the billboard is proposed for, and how it is right up against a very dense residential neighborhood. And then we also show you, because I don't believe the submission does show you, a billboard, we show you an example of a 14 foot by 48 billboard structure, electronic billboard structure that was approved to replace a static structure. This is the exact same size as is being proposed here, and this is what, is this the one on Braintree Street? No, it's 2.96 North Beacon. And it is the exact same dimensions, and this is what the people in the residential area would have to look at. And all of us would have, I've lived in Brighton for it since 1977, and I travel in that area a lot. This is what we'd have to look at. It would degrade and cheapen the area. It would not serve the public to have that- Thank you, ma'am, ugly structure. Thank you so much. May I have the next resident, please- And just one more thing. We urge you to deny this with prejudice. So it doesn't just come back a few months later. Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the board. My name is Kevin Cleary, and I'm probably the only butter here. What's your address? 7 South Waverly Street. Okay. I've lived at that address for 10 years, and I'm not going to echo what everybody else has said. I'm going to try to give you some insight as to what it's like to live at that corner. The intersection of Lincoln Street and South Waverly Street. And for many years, it's a neglected corner. Okay, we deal with excessive traffic because Lincoln Street is a cut-through. For everybody that gets off the mass pike and wants to go to Newton or Watertown or other parts of Brighton and doesn't want to sit in traffic. We deal with abandoned vehicles. We deal with trash. So tell me about the billboard. The billboard is going to be a setback to this. The neighborhood is currently going through a Renaissance. It's a very popular Tony cited, a condo building on the opposite corner. Things are improving here. And for those of us that have lived there for 10 years, who've spent thousands of dollars on rodent control, they've improved our property. Listen, for people out here, the man has the mic. Let him speak. Okay? Be respectful. Okay? Yeah, we're not. And I'm in support of that project. That's an advancement to the neighborhood. Okay. And what if you look at the case currently in Wamef, where the city is trying to buy out the current owner of a billboard, because it's so disruptive to the neighborhood, you know, it's irreversible if you approve this. Thank you. So I respectfully ask for you not to. Thank you. You're welcome. Hello, my name is John Woodson. I'm the executive director of the Austin Brighton Community Development Corporation. The Austin Brighton Community Development Corporation has been around for 40 years with a mission of trying to improve the quality of life in the Austin and Brighton neighborhoods. This proposal submitted to install the digital billboard on Lincoln Street reflects the opposite of that effort to improve the quality of life for the residents of Austin, Brighton, CDC. In fact, it actually contributes to the decay of the quality of life in the neighborhood surrounding the proposed billboard. It runs counter to the ongoing efforts to create a vibrant community to preserve and enhance the landscape and sense of neighborhood that the residents have been striving to create and maintain. I fully understand the very compelling and generous offers that have been made to a number of community groups to help them continue the important work they're doing. And although I can sympathize with the fact that those resources may not be available, if in fact this doesn't go through, I would strongly recommend that the proponent still think about making those contributions that be as generous as the boss. Yeah, just so that you know relief is not for sale. We need to hear about the merits. So please, if there's a role that you need to add. I'll close by saying there is no compelling reason to contradict the prohibition of billboards now in Article 51 and I urge you to reject the proposal. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. I'm Bob Pecheck. I live at nine High Rock Way in Austin, in Austin since 1981. And I'm here to express opposition to the billboard. My wife Nancy Grill couldn't be here today, but she submitted a longer comment that I'm going to make. Basically, it's a forbidden use. We were here two months ago. We thought that might be the end of it. But it isn't, I guess. It's not allowed. It's not needed. And I think it's, it sends a message of disrespect to our committee that you could stick something up in the air 60, 70 feet. That can be seen for miles and it's a good thing. It's not. We don't need it. And just by everyone has iPhones, if they get a need to get messages of whatever sort. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor. A few responses I could. Number one, during the conversations, my client leaned over to me and based on some of the questions we got from the board and some of the comments we heard. She's telling me that we are now comfortable removing the height by an additional five feet lowering it to a maximum of 55. So if this was to be approved, we would accept a provider that said to not exceed 55 feet based on some of the comments we heard. The other thing I'd like to just talk about is the, I understand the comments of the, of, of, that were made and a lot of good friends were talking. I think the issue is if Boston was removing all its billboards, we would have some, I think, nerve coming here in front of you. I think you heard it in one of the comments that a larger company could come remove some of its static billboards in exchange for doing a digital billboard. That, that is what has been happening that those are the circumstances in which billboards have been approved. Val doesn't have a large company. She doesn't have other billboards to trade. Those other billboards, frankly, aren't nearly as valuable as a digital billboard. They'll go on a massive term pike. I do not believe for a second that there will not be a billboard there within the next few years on mass on the term pike. It is the last spot on the, on the pike and it'll probably be controlled by a large company who can actually play the, I'll get rid of seven boards and I'll put one there. She cannot do that because she is a single woman on business. We don't care about finances. We are here to look at it from a purely land use perspective. I understand. It's a variation from the zoning. I'd like to talk about the variation. Let's just talk about what it means from a community perspective. I'm glad there was clarity that the buffering is being provided by the mass spike or by whomever. I'd like to speak to that. I didn't want to get into the mitigation piece but it was raised by both sides. We are committed to putting a sound barrier and to do road and control in the immediate area. The sound barrier may or may not ever happen. I think you all know that large statewide projects, everything they can be delayed, they can be changed. The applicants prepared to invest that immediately now if there's leftover funds in that project, they can extend the sound barrier further down into Austin. We think it would be, we are prepared to pay for that. We made that commitment. In terms of the use and a lot of comments were made about the fact that this is a forbidden use. The same forbidden use was put into place along this area and along this corridor for other projects that were named. Other condominium projects, other residential projects, and they to receive relief. I believe that the reason why the relief was warranted there as it would be warranted here, it's the same variance that's being requested. A certain height variances, dimensional variances, use variances is because there's a mass choose its term spike that literally goes through our city. As a result, these are budding parcels, have to get variances in order to be built almost nine times out of ten. The larger project that you described all enjoyed relief, it granted it's a different project, it's not a billboard they're approaching as, but it's the same variances that are being applied. By that standard, I think it's safe to say that variances along this section of the city are in order. I'd probably may have just closed with submitting the signatures of 850 signatures of support, and to draw your attention to the fact that one of the people who spoke in opposition to this is actually on a billboard in that neighborhood. Please go there. I'm weary. I'm going to close. I'm pleased to respect my wearyness. I hear you. The holidays can't come soon enough. I know you said that earlier. It is true. It is a true statement. So, okay, so we have a lot of information in support and opposition, and so may I have a motion, please? Yes, please, please. The variance would go only with this applicant, so once the land lease was done, would it go away or would it be permanent to the land? It would be with this application. So, but the history is that, in fact, this has been a forbidden use in Austin Brighton since 91, and I think the only billboards I community you guys can talk about this, but in fact, as you've described, you know, X number of billboards got removed because it was seen as a blight in some ways to be replaced by a digital billboard. But we would accept a proviso saying for this applicant only. I mean, there's this theory out there that Val is going to take the billboard and sell it. Yeah, this is. She is willing. I'm struggling with this applicant only because enforcement has been hard. And, you know, so we've been moving away in certain cases from this applicant only because we would still accept that as a proviso. So, may I have a motion, please? I'd like to make a motion to approve for this applicant only no higher than 50, but parisal this applicant only no higher than 55 feet. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Opposed? I too am opposed so the motion doesn't carry. It's been denied. Thank you, everybody. We still have other items on our agenda, so we would like you to help us out. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to continue on the zoning advisory subcommittee on Thursday we met December 12th of 2019 at 1010 Mass F 5th Law. Case B O A 57528131 Appleton Street was withdrawn, so it was denied with all prejudice. Case B O A 100 4905777 East Broadway was widening existing curb cut by 5 feet and add two O's tree parking. It was denied with all prejudice. Case B O A 101 8358 170 to 174 West Broadway. This was a change of legal use and occupancy of an existing restaurant and add restaurant with live entertainment. It was approved. Case B O A 976 835 45 Dell Avenue. It was new installed two entry doors and kitchen and complete requirements for a two family. It was approved. Case B O A 990 576 8 West Cards Street. It was three vehicle parking. It was approved. Case B O A 100 61118 Spalding Street. This was the build a shed dormer on the side of the building, the extend dormer in the rear of the building. It was approved with no building code relief. Case B O A 100 8861 726 Hyde Park Avenue. It was to remove the first floor red deck, constructing new first and second floor red deck. It was approved. Case B O A 100 5360 49 Metropolitan Avenue. It was a red and front addition to dormers. It was approved. Case B O A 101 59382 Prospect Avenue. It was legalized occupancy of a two family dwelling and renovated the third floor walk up attic and added dormer. It was approved. Case B O A 100 0455 288 Watchu City Street. It was a small addition of 54.5 square feet inside kitchen. It was approved. Case B O A 100 4365 37 to 39 Aldrich Street. It was added shed dormer, the build a 37 feet long. It was approved. Case B O A 100 1566 90 Castery. It was proposed to us repocking to own existing two family dwelling. It's all a 48 and high drive driveway retaining wall. It was approved. Case B O A 100 1264 48 Chaffeele Road. It was to us repocking was approved. Case B O A 100 985 4 135 School Street. It was deferred. It was a subcommittee on 123 2020. Case B O A 964 0 3088 Sikamore Street. It was to build a two and a half story edition. The rare of an existing two family was approved. It was approved. Case B O A 972 3357 6 to 8 Chaffeele Street. It was a finished basement and erected two by four walls and periment. It was approved. That concludes the subcommittee. May I have a motion, please? Motion to accept the recommendations. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The meeting is now adjourned. Happy holidays everybody. Happy holidays.