 you you you you you if you are back the floor is all yours. Okay, he's not about that. Let's do a quick roll call, Mr. Stembridge. So that guy, here. Mr. Shepard. President. Mr. Valencia. President. Ms. Bergerosa. Here. Ms. We will. President. Mr. Langer. The coordination of your pretty good. President. Great. Senator George, Mr. Stembridge. Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair. For the last of the 11 AM cases, we have case B.O.A. 142-1808, the address of one mountain running street. Is the applicant or are they represented in prison? Yes, sir. Madam Chair, members of the board, I'm Sean McCormick of Data Small and The Augustine and I represent the applicant, DB Delivery Mass LLC. So this is a request to open a delivery only cannabis business at one mountain running street. Next slide, please. So the applicant is a certified economic empowerment and social equity applicant. Applicant, they have been in business in, in wareham for a year doing delivery. So this is an experienced operator. Next slide, please. So this is the zoning code refusal. The two issues here are, but the building has been used as a non-conforming use. It was used as a sort of warehouse and processing facility for food products with the delivery component. They are asking to change from that non-conforming use to a new non-conforming use, which is a cannabis delivery. The second issue is, it is less than half a mile from an existing medical cannabis facility. Next slide, please. So on the separation, the delivery only model, it doesn't have any retail component, it doesn't have any customers showing up, it doesn't have any branding or signage on the exterior of the building. So it's really going to be almost indistinguishable from the prior non-conforming use, which was at the site. It really is not going to implicate any of the concerns that animated the half mile separation between cannabis businesses, because the models are just so different. It's really not a retail establishment. The idea is that passenger vehicles would leave the site a couple of times a day, go do their rounds in Boston, greater Boston, and return to the site. One of the features of this property that make it so attractive to this business is that we are able to do all deliveries, like wholesale deliveries, and also employee parking and storage of their delivery fleet inside the building. There is almost 7,000 square feet of parking available inside the building. So there's not going to be any increased parking demand in the neighborhood as a result of this project. Next slide. So this shows the proposed site. You can see the building takes out almost the entirety of the lot. Again, there are no proposed changes to the building. It's going to be used as is. It's basically ideal for this type of use. Next slide, please. So this is a floor plan. There's going to be storage areas. They're able to accommodate wholesale delivery inside in a secure area off the street. The parking and vehicle loading can take place inside the building. There'll be secure storage areas that got a security consultant. They have a host community agreement with the city of Boston. So they've been through that process. They've been through the process of community outreach meetings. They have the support of the McCormick Civic Association. Next slide, please. So just to reiterate, the business is going to be confined to the actual building. There really shouldn't be any visible impacts on the outside, no product, no branding, no customers lining up or anything like that. Next slide, please. There was a traffic report commissioned using the city's technical assistance program. Flussell and Neil concluded that there's really going to be a negligible impact on traffic. The delivery model that they use is not like a pizza place where you're going back and forth. Every time there's a new order, the vehicles are loaded. They leave the facility once or twice a day and they're out for hours at a time when they come back. So they're predicting that they're going to be 24 vehicle trips per day, which is, you know, would be a barely noticeable impact. Next slide, please. Again, there's no unfinished, unpackaged cannabis products. So there's not going to be any issue with smell. All loading and unloading of the indoors will not to be an issue there. The there are no customers, no public access. There's going to be a secure location without any of the impacts from an in-person retail site. Next slide, please. This is a rendering. The applicant has been working with the Civic Association and the mural crew to come up with a mural design for the outside of the building. This is just a rendering, but I think it's going to be a nice addition to this existing building in the neighborhood. And with that, if you have any answer or any questions from the board. Thank you. What's their car here or what was the last use of the space? It was some, it was related to food. I think it was a bakery or bakery products, but they were food products stored on site. And they would be out for delivery using delivery trucks. Any questions from the board? I just wanted to ask if the proportion of the they have approved from the Cannabis Board. So there in the midst of that, they would have some steps to go through after they get zoning approval. I think so that's the answer. They're not fully approved yet. They can't get fully approved absent zoning approval, but they have been through the process once for their outlet and where am. I'm sorry, how the air is that accurate? Because I feel like I don't usually see cases until after they've been approved. Yeah, my recommendation is that for the Cannabis Board, they would need to be approved and send it to us. And then it would be through zoning approval, but I'm not sure of the process where we need to be approved while it goes back for more approval from the Cannabis Board. I'm sorry. So the Boston Cannabis Board has given the host community agreement. I was confusing this with a state cannabis condition. Okay, so you have approval from the Boston Cannabis Board. Yes, I'm sure. Does that answer your question, Mr. Volensier? Yes, and Quinn, did you get that? But while I was trying to find the other human basement that they couldn't, I believe it was approximately six weeks ago. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, can we take public testimony? Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Ross Cocker, I'm the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The app plan has completed their community process at this time. Our office held in a butter meeting on January 10th and worked on several traffic congestion and anti-social behavior or express. The proponents went on to me with local civic association where they received support from the group. At this time, we'd like to defer to the judgment of this board. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGiachron, City Councilor Frank Baker's office, would like to go on working in support. Councilor, the office, the hand is raised. May I have stepped away? Jeffrey? So Jeff Hampton? Yes, thank you, Chess. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. I remember the board, Jeff, I have to be a PDA. We recommended denial on this because it's a three family zoning district. I know we've lived in the neighborhood, how that building's been for years and I know it's been industrial and commercial, but it is still a very hardcore residential zoning district. So we recommended denial. One other thing that was brought to our attention is the refusal letter. It doesn't say anything about delivery. It just says that it's going to be a cannabis establishment. So if the board were to approve it, I would ask that it would be for delivery only and no sales because the zoning letter, the refusal letter doesn't state that. Thank you. I was wondering the same thing. So thanks for calling that out. Any other, I'm- No initial raise hands. Any other questions from the board? With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of denial given that it's not in character with the residential use of the neighborhood. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? No. Mr. Shepard? Sorry, no. Mr. Volanzio? Yes. Mr. Brasov? Yes. Mr. Brasov? Yes. Ms. Wu-Wol? No. Mr. Langham? No. The chair also votes no. The motion does not carry. Madam Chair, this is Havir. If you would like to request another motion, you can, if not, the next motion you can request, the missing without prejudice. The denial without prejudice. I don't have that. Do we have another motion? I'll make a motion to approve. I think the delivery operator uses appropriate given the non-conforming nature of the property. It seems to operate similarly to the, would I have heard described as like a bakery wholesale operation. So I would make a motion to approve with the provisor that is delivery operator. I'm only not retail established or what Mr. Hampton said. No, there's no open sight sales. Correct. A bit? Or second motion. Okay. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Shepard? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Berraza? No. Mr. Wu-Wol? Yes. Mr. Langham? Mr. Wang? No. No. Okay. Well, I hit him left up to me. I'm not. And Chair also votes no. I agree that the nature of the neighborhood does not seem to lend itself. So motion does not carry. I think that's it. Right? Is that it? How do you or am I supposed to call another vote? At this point, so too much of us have failed. We consider denied. Okay. Our last vote wants to put a motion. Do you want to deny it without prejudice? But right now, I think that I. That's fine. Okay. I think we can. A vote unless someone's too strongly. Okay. Let's keep going. Well, here. Okay. Now, hit to the rediscussion. Rediscussion is getting for 1130. First being case BOA 1406267. The address of 166 Chelsea Street is the applicant or the representative. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney Jeff Dre, or Dre, or Toscow, with a business address of 11 Beacon Street. On behalf of the owner of 166 Chelsea Street, Gabriel, Costano, and the applicant. And I also have David Choi, who is the attorney on the project. This proposal is to change the occupancy from an existing six unit building to add an additional top floor unit for the owner of first private residents to a seven family dwelling to also renovate the structure. We can leave it on this slide. No, one more of that. Sorry. Next slide. Yes, right here. This is an overview of the general area. You can see the red highlight. The dot is the existing structure behind us. Just to look at the precedent is the Paris flats of the Paris Street apartment complex. The four-story multi-unit 30 unit building in the rear directly behind us. As we start to go down the street, two down from us is a four-story condo building, all the Paris flats. We also have 156 160 Chelsea Street, 245 Chelsea Street that was recently approved for a similar building at 134 Chelsea Street. The units one through six are already pre-existing units. This fourth floor unit would be a three bedroom. It would be 1464 square foot unit for the owner. This building would have two full needs of aggressive, fully sprinkler. As we worked with the community as well as the Maverick Central neighborhood association to get their support, we agreed that the top floor would be pulled back. Eight feet from the top of the day. We would also be pulled in two foot three inches on either side of the building. So from the front of the building, the mass would be less than the pipe pulling it back. So it would be 15 feet pulled away from Chelsea Street. Just to go over some of the violations that were mentioned, this is a three-F district, although there is multi-family residential buildings around us. So the seven units would require a use variance. The FAR existing is 2.45. We would be proposing 2.9 for an FAR variance. We, at our highest point, would be a 43 feet by inches. So we would need high variance and feet and its stories. And then the other violations like parking, radio, we're not changing the contours of the building going back or anything additional on the sides. All of the other violations for front yard and radio, parking would be three existing violations. We are also just a minute away from airport T Station making this a great commuter building as well. I can pause to answer any questions at the board, ma'am. Thank you. Other questions from the board? I just want to confirm, Mr. Dario, it appears that this would be one of the only four stories in the immediate area. Is that accurate? No, it's not, ma'am. Sorry, I am out of a few. But the way that there is a four story, I'm trying to find the address called Paris Flats. That's two down, Ms. Baraza. So directly left of us, that's a condo building. That's four. At 2.45 Chelsea, Tartes, that's recess. I actually represented a client about that approved about a year ago. I'm going to have one of 42 Chelsea, 186 Paris, 189 Paris. So the rowing number, why it's a little misleading is they all have a pullback if they're going to have the fourth floor. So what's that? Majority, majority of three stories, but there are some anomalies at our four story hides for my colleagues to know. Okay, thank you. All right, other questions from the board? Let's open up the public testimony. Afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board and the entire needs of the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Our office host and the butter is waiting for this project in November 10, 2022. No, our butter is extended in the A. The applicant also met with Maverick Central and the association in December and January of this year. They group for it in support of this project. And at this time, our office would like to prepare all judgment to the board. Thank you. Sebastian? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Once again, my name is Sebastian Paura. I'm the East Boston VA, the city council of Gabriella Coleta. Based on Maverick Central, they were associations for the council would like to go and support this project. Thank you. I have no additional waste hands, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPA design review. I think the project fits within its context and I'm glad to see that Frank step back on the fourth floor. May I have a second? Take a moment. Mr. Stonebridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Bethe-Brazile? Yes. Ms. Weewal? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Good morning. Mr. Schulten. Yes. At this time, Madam Chair, would you like to ask for the 1 p.m. hearings? Is there any withdrawal or deferred being requested? Hearing none, then we'll move on back to the approved sessions of 11.30 a.m. Case number, B.O.A. 1432527, with the interest of 184 Calvary Street. Is the applicant representative present? Yes. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Richard Lins, 245 Summarshri, he's Boston. On behalf of the petitioner for the project, they're wanting for cover street. If we can jump ahead to the third slide, that's probably a good place to start. So I can at least orient the members with some context for the area. Madam Chair, this site will involve the combination of two lots. When those lots are combined, the total square footage would be over 15,000 square feet, which is close to four times the known lots as for this district. I say that in the importance of laying out first for the board, is to also point out some of the surrounding contexts for the area. As you can see off the distance, close to the top of the photo, that is Constitution Beach. That is our nearest that barge to the rear. So that's where I left is the MBTA right away. And to the right is a vacant area which has been recently developed multi-family use. This site currently sits at the end of a dead end street, which is known as Carpour Street, and our building that we are proposing to demolish and replace is on the left hand side. We can scroll down to the next slide. Perhaps one more slide would be helpful. So the existing building sits on the first lot, a lot to be able to adjacent to it, would be combined. As I mentioned, it's a little over 15,000 square feet, but put together. Our proposal would be for a seven unit multi-family dwelling on this site. Now we fully understand that this site is located at 2,000 to 4,000 district, but as I mentioned, the combining of these lots would result in a lot that exceeds what the allowable densities, essentially for this neighborhood. A 2,000 to 4,000 district contemplates one unit for every 2,000 square feet. At seven units, we feel that we are below what the density would be, had the configuration of this lot itself was arranged away. It had front, you know, not frontly junk carpour street. Because this is someone on shade, we are only able to orient our building in a certain way, and that's why we're proposing this is seven unit dwelling. Just a different view of color bars you're coming down to the dead end, the left hand side is the building that would be raised with the new building being proposed on the site. Next slide, please. So here's a rendering, and we do have Adam Glass in here who is the project architect. They have been some updates to the rendering based on the community process, and I do have those in the board of field plan that is before the board today. Most importantly, and this is based in large part on comments that we did here through community process, four of these units will be actually three bedrooms and three of the units will be two bedrooms. The reason for that is the comments that we did here is that the goal was to see as many family-sized units being incorporated into a project like this for this residential neighborhood. So the change of the project actually resulted in a reduction of the units, I believe the notice says eight for down to seven units, and again the mix being four three bedroom and three two bedroom units. The average size of the units are almost 13 times square feet. More importantly, with respect to issues such as planning spots and things that are happening in and around the community, we are occupying only 21% so the footprint of this building is 21% block coverage, which leads us about 5,000 square feet of usable open space that we intend to keep as common area for this building, which is intended for home ownership as well. So these would be seven condo units with a substantial amount of open space and limited impact on our butter's book left and rear to the proper. If we could scroll down to the next slide please. These are just some 3D views showing the orientation of the back of the building and the front of the building and the comparisons. One of the things that we did change again is to try to pull those decks in to create a little bit more privacy for neighbors surrounding neighbors in the area. If we want to get down to slide 15, that's our site play out of the, that's an important place to stop off next. So we are also proposing, as you can see on the layout here, when we do combine the lots, there is a total of 16 parking space. I know the board may react to that and we're going to say, that's certainly a lot of parking. Again, part of the concern that we did here in this neighborhood is that parking is a concern that is an issue. And since we do have a substantial amount of space on the site, we were able to accommodate some of the comments and concerns that we did here from the neighborhood. So in doing so, we created a total of 16 spaces and as you can see, towards the bottom of the screen, a substantial amount of offering between us and our direct advice to our left. We're going to leave us on the call, but we've worked very closely with getting to have support for this particular project. You can also see the relationship of the other green spaces around the building, including all that area that remain as common. When it comes to the relief that's necessary, we've tried to design this building in a way that respects the current zone, but also plans for future zones in the area. The first variants that we do require however, is for use. Being a 2F 4000 district, this is considered a multi-family use and therefore would require relief. But as you can see, even though we do meet the front end requirement, the orientation of the lot without allow for us to sub the vibe of this line into buildable separate plots. So instead, we are proposing this as a single building. And again, being the density, the finishing area being 2000 square feet for each unit, we would be under with the allowable density of the big. In addition, the rear yard setback typically and the district is 40 feet. So we are setting it back and it looks like about 11 feet to our rear decks off the back. Our items of the rear is Constitution Beach. There is no other residential property that could ever be contemplated back there that is a state owned conservation parkland behind us. So while we do come a little bit closer to the rear property as would be normal for this district, we aren't impacting any other property to our rear. And what that's also allowed us to do is to push our building a little further back into the site, which again was to address some concerns of our directives on our on co-cre-street that would be adjacent to our marking area. So we expect to be high of our building and we can probably jump back a few slides to our elevations. The zoning district actually, who go forward here, perfect. The zoning district actually allows for a 35 foot height limit, which we are at. So the peak of our building is at 35 feet. However, from a design standpoint, the zoning code says that it cannot be more than 2.5 stories. I think items that are a pretty good job of trying to capture some of the press that we do see in the area with the pitch roofs. So even though this is considered to be a three-story building, the design elements that were included, which are trying to reflect some of the 2.5 story that we do see in around the area. We pretty much meet all of the other requirements of the current zoning. As I mentioned, the open space for the site is about 5,000 square feet. About 750 on the 120 square feet per unit. They do have outdoor bounding space and decks. And we certainly would incorporate a lot of common area for the building itself. The district of parking, the only requirement is that we have 12 spaces out of the code. We are providing 16 again because we do have the availability and do that. So we are also providing a lot of information about the building. We are also providing a lot of information about the building. We are also providing a lot of information about the building. We are providing a lot of information about the building. We are providing a lot of information about the building. We are providing a lot of information about the building. So that was some time, I believe, earlier this year, the updated plans would have been filed with ISD and then brought over to the board. Got it. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing done. Can I open it up to public testimony? Good afternoon, my name is Chair, members of the board. I'm joining us with the Mayor's Office of Navalhood Services. ONS hosted various butters meeting for this project, the latest butters meeting took place on October 5, 2022. Butters liked the design and the family friendly size of the units, but they also expressed concerns regarding the size of the building itself and potential loss of parking. The applicant also met with high review and neighborhood association. They reported to the close with 42 residents against and one in favor. The big spread is contained with the size of the building. The applicant was able to work with a direct-to-butter. And for that, we've received two letters as support, one from the direct-to-butter. At this time, our office will like to defer all judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, my name is Chair, members of the board. My name is Sebastian Power. I am the East Boston Liaison for City Council of the Bay of Coleta. We understand that the proponent has more ability to come down in scale, height and unit count. The point that there is one of the water-whizing favour of the project. We respect that work and the opinion of the water, nonetheless, other of the waters on the street have concerns about this parcel. Turning into a seven-unit dwelling in comparison with other homes in the community. If we plan this Boston coming down the pike, respectfully, we do not think that this project is aligned with the scale on this particular street. Or if we plan this Boston, therefore Councillor Polaria will like to go and record an opposition of this project. Thank you. Oh, Philo, something I would like to... Can you state your name and address for the record? Tell us about your support opposition. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, my name is Charlotte Brandt, you're 40. I'm at a 178th culprits street. I'm a director of vitamin in my life. We were opposed to what had to be beginning. But we were very diligently with the Chinese lens. And the owners of the new property, we supported and we don't oppose it. And the thing, they met all the demands with pushing it back. Pockets, pockets, a big thing. I think we need the 16-package points because of the name order. It is a dead end street. The pockets are very tight down there. So having those 16-package places is big for us. So we are in favor. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, skip that. Please. It's given testimony. I have no additional raised hands. Thank you. Mr. Hapton, do you have an opinion based on the verses 7? We still think that the building is too big, even with just the reduction to seven units. We recommend it to now without the prejudice from the passing. It's too early. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I can just briefly respond to my... I understand we are... If I may. Yes, Chair. I understand we are in transition. And I know that the Plenty of Spots and Conversation, you know, pretty much, you know, is what everybody is relying upon at this point. This law, when combined, is a 15,000 square foot wide, with certainly be unique in relation to all of the other wads, hidden around this particular area. It's, as I said, four times, we four times the size of what the middle of lot size is currently. And, you know, for the density at 2,000 square feet per unit, you know, we're at seven units, which would be about 14,000 square feet on the current zoning. I don't anticipate Plenty's Boston to be, you know, reducing density, you know, if anything, it'd be increasing density throughout the neighborhood. So I understand all of the concern that is Plenty's Boston, but we also have that in mind when taking to consideration things like block coverage and open space. And in this particular case, we feel that, you know, 15,000 square foot wide on many other projects that I've done, you know, we certainly yielded percolz a little bit much grander scale. We wanted to be sensitive to that. And that's one of the reasons why we've limited this to a seven unit building. We've only got stock with the three bedrooms because that was important neighborhood, you know, and obviously object for homeownership with a good amount of open space. So I just, I want to make sure that the board, you know, understands that not every case just because Plenty's Boston is looming in the background, you know, isn't taken to consideration. We feel that, you know, neighborhood residential 50. This would be very consistent with those plans if they're adopted ultimately by the BPDI. Can I ask another question for clarification? Of course. The FAR, am I reading it correctly? The FAR is .8, but your proposal is actually .63. Is that correct? That's incomplete. Yes. This browser for the chair is point is correct. That's required. Yeah, point is the max. We're at .65. Thank you. Thank you. Any other minutes? Yeah, I'm sorry. I do have a question. Attorney, when this I'm struggling with just the amount of paving on the site and it just reads as auto centric to me, were there any concepts that sort of prioritize like the building instead of the first thing you see is the parking and the entry to the parking area? Great question. I think that part of the original plan looked at, you know, reorienting parking and a different portion of the lot. I think we would eat that a lot more open space. This area for parking requires at least a lot of black and white driving. At least not a driveway to get to a different portion of the site for where we want to put the building. The direct butter to our left who didn't speak, you know, raised those concerns as well. That's why we're pretty substantial landscape offering in between is property. Our property certainly willing to look at, you know, additional. PTA design review for that parking area. And I think also one of the things I probably failed to mention is that looking at previous payment on the site is something that was requested. I think we don't have any issue with that as well. How many trees do we lose? There's a tree to the rear of the property that we, I think we share with the direct butter. We're, you know, happy to preserve or happy to crime or happy to do what works best because I think it is somewhat of a nuisance to the butter on the left. I think that's the only tree that's in question that's the closest to the MBTA right away. I thought it was the tree next to the property. I'm looking at Google Earth and there's a huge canopy next to 184 because you're proposing to build on that property, right? That's vacant right now. Correct. Okay. Great. Thank you. I want more. Can you speak to the main entrance that we have information. It does not abide by building co standards. I'm not sure if we can jump back to our site plan, but I think just understand the orientation of the lot. We have, where we, wherever you've located the driveway to come onto the property, you know, is essentially whatever I get the front facing portion of co ver street. I mean, co than, you know, the property line that takes 90 degree term at the dead end. So we would have to orient the building in a way either to face co ver street with that front entrance or create some sort of arrangement with a, yeah, we got our creative front entrance on that right side of the building behind parking space 12. And that's probably not going to be a very good design. Again, these are things that we can certainly willing to address as part of design review, but I feel that that's the only option here based upon the shape of this lot. And we wouldn't be able to have a straight head on and must move the building, you know, a different way of the parking by the way. Katie, to resolve the issue of entrance, if you were to get rid of the four parking spaces that are kind of right next to each other to the left, you can actually push the parking spaces down and create a connection or walkway. But the idea would be that you should have a connection from the front to your entry. So I think it's really about site planning to let people know where your front door is. Okay, I speak again as the director of getting rid of getting rid of parking on that street is it's just well overwhelmed. We need parking all due respect. I am the director of the bottom. Sorry, you get just good. I'm sorry. Is it still on? Yeah. Do you want to finish your statement? Yeah, what I'm saying is all due respect. It's in my backyard and it's right here on the pipeline. We need the most parking as possible. It's a dead end street. If we take parking spaces away, it's not going to work. Thank you. You need the parking. Thank you. Okay. With that additional, those additional kind of requirements can we have a motion? I can put a motion forward. You're just going to have to be a little patient with being in terms of the proviso. So I think the property is like four times larger in terms of the zoning for the lot. So putting forth seven unit, I would say, is a good amount in terms of density is actually lower than the FAR that's required. So I'm okay with the seven that's proposed and consolidating these units should allow for more open area. And so with that, I am advocating that for seven residential units, 12 spaces should be sufficient. Not 16. So I'm advocating to remove four of the parking spaces to the left to allow that to be more open green space for the unit. So the motion is approval with the following proviso eliminate four parking spaces. BPD a review on the site planning to work out a pathway connector from the front to the middle of the entry lobby. And the third proviso is to have the front of the building have a door for the unit that faces in front of the of the street. Those would be my provisos. I'll second that. Hey, Mr. Stembridge. Do you want to, you don't have to, but do you want to elaborate? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I graduated from the laude وبало space in the area so it is theỏiim space an area so it is the explores space an area of laude. Thank you, Mister Rossia. Mister Rossia. Thank you, Mister Rossia. I think that with theי The Toronto. Mith baad. Miss AT Mickey de fingernaes a Joess mention the project is going to probe and vote-Yes. Miss BELER extension the project is going to probe and vote-Yes. Missmumbling PARA Jayozo. Miss Spinet PARA, Mr Aparazo? Miss bên lago. Miss stimulationo. Miss Reno. Miss you. Miss Kurol. Yes. Misspe cast Member M方. Miss 2016. Miss Casano. Is Miss Rio Manager, Missark Peralta? Miss Karada. Miss Arora. Miss08.Men 0. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. You always leave it up to Sherry here. Yeah. Um, I agree with Mr. Stembridge and Mr. Shepherd. I think the applicant has worked closely with us a about around various issues. And, you know, there is green space in the area. And I think parking is important. So I also vote no. So the motion does not carry and we need another motion. And if there is a direct no motion is presented. That would be a straight denial or another emotion to be denied without prejudice. So the options are denied and I would have purchased approval with whatever provisors. So can I have a motion? Yes. Part of the promotion for approval with P3D8 desire view. Okay. May I have a second? Second. Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valenciaga. I would be proponent to consider the recommendations that were made to prove the project in the access. But without I vote yes. Okay. Got it. Miss Betapurraza. This is a motion for approval with P3D8 desire view correct. Correct. Yes. Miss Rihab. Well, no, no. I'm still uncomfortable with the amount of parking. Okay. Mr. Arlanum. No. Well, the chair votes yes. The motion carries. Thank you very much. Now chair. Next point. Thank you. Before we turn to the discussion for the vote, schedule for 1130. Next on the list is case B owing, 1,40, 65, 31. The address being 185 East Street is the applicant or the representative vote. Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the boy, attorney Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy, business address of 168 East Street, first floor, South Boston. Joining me today is the architect in Johnson. Madam Chair, our revised plans triggered a building code refusal for the proposed vertical lift for handicap access through a full story. We will be seeking the variance through the state, but I wanted to be sure to add this to the record so there is no confusion with ISD. But that being said, Madam Chair, members of the boy, this is a proposal to combine three parcels, 185 East Street, 183 East Street, 164 West 9th Street, with a total lot size of approximately 3357 square feet, to erect a new four unit three-story multi-family residential dwelling with six-barrow grade off-street parking spaces. Just want to draw your attention to page six of the plans here. Right? Yep, perfect. So vehicles will access the building off of West 9th Street via 11 foot wide driveway, which will lead to the below grade parking. Possibly about five feet will have to be done below grade to accommodate. We are located within a multi-family residential sub-district. If I could direct your attention to page 13, please. Parking level will contain eight spaces ranging from two spaces, eight by 18, two spaces, seven by 16, and another two spaces, seven by 18, which resulted in a parking violation, a design violation. There will also be a wheelchair lift access, as well as a trash storage, bike storage, and a utility room. Unit one, we can scroll to the next page. Unit one will be approximately 1,230 square feet, located on the first floor, and part of the second floor. It will consist of a three bedroom, living room, dining room, and a two and a half bath. Unit two will be approximately 1,340 square feet, located on the first floor, and part of the second. It will consist of a three bedroom, living, dining, and a two and a half bath. Unit three will be approximately 1,161 square feet, located on part of the second floor and third, it with consist of a three bedroom living, dining, and a two and a half bath. Unit four will be approximately 1,492 square feet, located on part of the second floor and third. You will also consist of a three bedroom living dining in the two and a half bath. You'll notice from the rear, units two and four will have small balconies located in the rear of the building approximately 67 square feet. The roof plan will consist of mechanicals only with bulkhead access. As for the violations, you'll notice there's a violation for height, as height being proposed is 35 feet, which is under what is required by Article 68. However, since the existing structure is being demolished, the max height allowed is at that height of 26 feet. Again, height is compliant under Article 68. If I can draw your attention to page nine and page 11, those will show views of the actual property and existence in this view that you have in front of you now is the actual elevations compared to the right side and to the more recently approved project on the left-hand side. It's received from the right that is a building for a historic building. We have another violation for insufficient lot size, 2000 square feet, a lot of areas required for the first unit and a thousand square feet of lot area for each additional unit, which would require us to provide 5,000 square feet. And again, we have 3,357 square feet. We also have a rare yard setback violation here. The requirement is 15 feet. The existing structure in its place now is less than 3 feet to the property line. We're actually going to increase that setback by approximately, will be 3 feet from the property line with the new proposed building. There was also a violation for the front yard, but it's my opinion this was given in error as the violation is for window designs, projecting into the front yard at the second and third stories. There's no such violations as stated to govern year rights. However, we do conform with public improvements, and the recommendations requirements for base encroaching on the public way. In concluding, I believe the massing and the density of this proposal was in line with the BPDA's recommendation of approval for this proposal. And again, their proposal was recommending approval when it was at a higher unit count of six. At this point in time, I'm going to pause for any questions from the board. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, may I take public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna Wait with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. ONS has hosted two of butters meetings for 185E Street, the most recent one being held on May 2, 2023. The proponent made changes to the proposed building based on community feedback. They reduced the number of units, it moved work and removed some of the balconies. There are around a dozen of butters at the second meeting, and they were all on opposition to the proposal. Their main objections were the size of the building and the underground parking. ONS has received a petition from a butters with 45 signatures in opposition. The City's Dynamic Neighborhood Association does not support this project as it is currently proposed. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any of you elected officials office? No, no. Good morning. Oh, go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is Vanessa Wolfe from Council President Flynn's office. Council President Flynn would like to go on record an opposition based on feedback from neighbors in the City's side neighborhood association. There was a good community process and meeting with neighbors to work on multiple iterations of the project. However, neighbors, butters and the civic group continue to call attention to quality of life issues, such as concerns about the bedroom panel and exacerbating the existing parking issues in the neighborhood. Thank you. Okay, Bill Davis. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and board members. I'm Bill Davis, 177181E Street. My property of butters is a building project on two sides. In a, opposed this project based upon the proximity of the driveway, which is going to be one foot with my building foundation into an underground parking garage. They have not addressed the butters concerns on this project. It's the size of the building, the bedroom count, the underground parking spaces, the lot lying windows, balconies, green space, problem water issues that exist in the area. And basically, there were five of butters, directed butters to this development that have the name on that petition, opposing this project as it stands. Thank you. There's others that would like to speak that could avoid on it possible, it'd be great if the board would grant them permission to speak. Thank you. Okay, Malaydin. Brady? Hello, can you hear me? Yes, go ahead. Hi, so this is Marie Brady. I'm a director of butter. That's 168 West 9th Street, so I'm at the rear of the proposed building right now. I have several problems with the building. The building is, as some people mentioned, it's too big, but the big thing that nobody's really mentioned is the 15 foot setback that's supposed to be in the back of that building, which my building looks onto, where the balconies are proposed. It's only three feet right now from the balcony to the fence that is ours, part of our units at 168 West 9th Street. So I have a big problem with the setback, being only three feet instead of the required 15 feet among all the other objections that people have already mentioned. Thank you. Phil? Hi, my. Phil? We can't hear her. Yeah, I'm going to head to the floor, sorry, we lost you. Sorry, I called that. I muted my thought. Hi, my name is Kelly Davis, and I live at 177 East Street. So you're here. I believe your family member just spoke. Can we hear from new folks? Yes. My own department, Kelly Davis. I'm under bill Davis's name. I know, but is he related to you? Yes. Okay, so can we hear from some other people from Jordan, Yosses? Thank you. I'm not going. Okay, we're all excited. Thank you. Okay. Jessica? Yeah, I have no hands are going up and down. I don't think I have any additional raised hands. Also, okay. Hi, sorry, you have started when the second day of his opinion was voiced. My name is Mike Delnegrove, another 151st 9th Street, which is across the street, basically, from the proposed building. I think that a couple of the points that Attorney Spitz noted that are concerned to me is the setbacks and the height variances, the existing building fits nicely with the character of the neighborhood, which is both well maintained and smaller unit size buildings or single family homes. The 26 height foot, 26 foot height requirement with the existing building, I think, is appropriate to maintain and not consider the Article 68 height development, considering the building adjacent to it, the Davis family's home is only marginally a forced-story building and further the only adjacent building that I think has such height, the setback also, I think, is important to consider considering that the impact to the neighborhood is significant as we start to lose green space. So, conditionally, other notes that have been already mentioned, I think that that's important for us to consider. Thank you. Okay, I have no additional raises. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Okay, if that may have any motion. Are there additional questions or is there more questions? I'd like to put forward a motion of denial without prejudice due to community opposition. If there's second. Second. Okay, Mr. Stamperich. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Beto-Praso. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Great, thank you. Next, we have case viewing. One, four, two, three, zero, three, two. The address of 48 L. Restreet is the applicant or the representative. Yes, Mr. Stamperich. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney for the business address of 350 West Broadway, so Boston. I represent Thomas Nodo, the proponent of the development project at 48-50 L. Restreet. The site consists of two parcels, which will be combined into a new law of 5,249 square feet. Being proposed is a new six-story building to get a 14 dwelling units with seven garage parking spaces. The zoning district is a B1 general business district under the 1964 base zoning code. This matter was deferred in order to allow for continuation of conversations with the mayor's office of housing about the project's affordable housing component. One of the two parcels here is bound by a city of Boston open space deed restriction. On May 4th, we were officially notified by a seat Dylan that the deed restriction will be released in return for a higher affordable commitment from the project. To that end, my client will be providing three IDP units, two at 70% AMI and one at 60% AMI, representing a 21% affordability commitment. The ground floor of the building, is as could be seen here in the slide, would consist of a partly open garage for the parking of Stevit motor vehicles along the bicycle storage room, main building entry on L.A. Street, a trash and recycling room, utility rooms, and the building's elevator and stairway cores. The next slide depicts what is a common floor plate was due to five. These floors would each contain two one bedroom units of 718 and 871 square feet, and one two bedroom unit of 1,071 square feet. Scrolling down these six floor, which would be set back approximately 10 feet in the front, would consist of two two bedroom units of 994 and 1,088 square feet. The roof would be occupied only by HVAC, and elevator would provide a periphery space for possible solar panel and hatch for maintenance access to the roof. As can be seen on the front elevation, if we scroll down a bit, the building has been designed to match the height of the adjacent 64-18 unit building at 44th L.A. Street, which was approved by this board in February of last year, and it's now under construction. Building materials would be masonry with a bay finished in a composite panel and a lap-sighting, subject of course to BBDH's I'm review. The plan set continually down shows the building's four elevations, as well as a number of renderings showing the building in locational context. Don't believe this required for insufficient off-street parking as these cities' preference for residential projects in such close proximity to rapid transit ranges from none to minimal. At this location, which is the approximately four minutes walking distance to the MBTA's Andrew Redline station, the both parking ratios 0.5, seven spaces being composed for the 14 units. The other zoning violations are dimensional and reflect zoning requirements originally set in 1964. Their variance is required for excessive floor area ratio. One is the maximum under zoning, whereas 3.5 is being composed. In sufficient log size, which as I noted, is 5,249 square feet. Excessive building height and stories and feet at six stories and 60 feet versus the three stories of 40 feet allowed by zoning. In sufficient use of low-pinspace and insufficient side and rear setbacks. I point out with respect to zoning that the site is within the area of the BBDH's approved plan, self-post and doorchester avenue, which allows greater density and building height and anticipation of new zoning for the area. But that all falls and take any questions that members may have. And Jim, Mr. Ronsy, any questions from the board? That one question. With the seven spaces, how will parking be allocated amongst the units? I have some extra question. And frankly, would be, I guess, as needed in terms of when the units are leased and whether the lessee has indeed for a motor vehicle parking space. I think the BBDH may have even burgundy less parking here. It is very, very close to the end of red line. And it would be attractive to a mix of residents, who either don't own a motor vehicle. So obviously there's a 50% of the units or each philosophy in terms of five motor vehicle ownership in the city is close to rapid transit. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? That man, public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. Oh, and I hosted an abouters meeting for 48 LR East Street on October 12th, 2022. The proponent answered all questions at the time to abouters express their support for the project. The membership of the Andrews Cross-Divis Association voted to support this proposal. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Vanessa Wood from Council President Flynn's Office. Council President Flynn would like to go on record and support based on a thorough community process and feedback from neighbors and the Andrews Square Civic Association who are also in support of this project. Council President Flynn respectfully requests that the team continue to work closely with neighbors on any quality of life issues that may arise during the construction phase. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Wood. Madam Chair, members of the board, call solvents to the Councilor Lai's Michael Flarey. Councilor Duvall, I'm against supporting. I have no additional listings at the moment. Thank you. Thank you. With that, may I have a motion? Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, I would like to make a motion to a problem project with the BDA, the same career. Thank you. Mr. Stampernch. Yes. Mr. Schappel. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berberzel. Yes. Mr. Wienwald. Yes. Mr. Wienwald. Yes. Mr. Wienwald. Mr. Schappel. Mr. Schappel. Yes. Mr. Wienwald. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Thank you. The Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Thank you. We will now move on to the hearing schedule for 1 p.m. First is the case B081452582. The address being 197 Lexington Street is the applicant or their representative president. Yes. Good afternoon. I'm Chair of members of the board and Richard Lins. Business address at 245 Summary Street in the spot on behalf of the homeowners, Eric and Kim Simbrano. Better Chair, real briefly. This was before the board previously where they change a view son occupancy for the entire building from three to four units and some modifications to the rear decks. My clients have abandoned the plans for the change of occupancy, which has already improved. I have reconfigured the rear deck. So this scope of what's before the board today is limited to just the rear decks and essentially re-improving what's improved previously. If we can jump down to slide 10, I'm trying to make this as brief as possible and again, relatively straightforward. So our site plan is here showing the existing nonconforming structure with a 20 foot, about 57.5 foot wide. Because this is considered a shallow lot, we are eligible for the shallow accession of rear and sat back, which would reduce the rear yards to about 10 feet. We're at about 9.8 feet, as you can see here, the current decks are about 14.8 feet. I do have some elevation for the next slides, but the rear yard sat back is the violation that would be involved. This appeal, same violation for the previous appeal that was approved, as well as the usable open space. Because we are, we configure the decks themselves and there already is its sufficient usable open space for the property. That violation also gets re-triggered for purpose to disappear. If we can scroll down to the next slide, we show the existing conditions, as the decks showing it from both, I figured it's too long a little bit, here we go. So we see both the profile view on the left side of the screen, as well as the back view of the existing decks. And if we can show the next slide, I'll show a proposed reconfiguration looks like based upon that site plan that we just showed. Yes, there we go. So yeah, so reconfiguring them with the aggressors out of the back, again, we are not changing the items of the building or made of three unit dwelling. It's just essentially a rebuilding of these decks. Happy answering questions. Thank you, sir. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, let's take public testimony. Good afternoon, my name is Chair, members of the Corp. I'm an employee of an ETSIS with the Mayor's Office of Naval Services. Moin is posted on a boaters meeting for this project in March 21st, 2023. No boaters attended this meeting. Our office is unaware of any concerns that's at the moment. And at this time, our office would like to report all our transit report. Thank you, thank you. Have no raises at the moment, thank you. All right. Good afternoon, my name is Chair, members of the board. My name is Sebastian Paura. He's boss on the AISO board, so we say the council member at Colleta. We see on the breaker the last one to Ego Hill and the CZOC Asian Police Benefit 2021. Based on the boat taking that day of 10 and supporting 11 in a position, the council would like to roll in a position of this program. Thank you. I'm sorry, I think it just clarified that Chair, the councilors, the councilors' position was to oppose. I believe that was the old project. This has not gone back before Ego, that will be based on the fact that we're actually reducing the project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hey, would that mean I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. We have a second. That's second. Mr. Stembridge. Yep. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Baderazza. Yes. Mr. Balencia, I skipped this. Yes. Mr. Lengham. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair, also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Have a great day. Next we have case B-O-A-144-0851. Yeah, just being 37 in the Varmac Street is the applicant for their representant president. Yes, I'm David Salkov. Good morning. Good afternoon. Yes, please proceed. Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is the parking lot across the street from the work courthouse, had a corner to the new state's feet building. This was an open air parking lot run by the Frank and Leo Paganos since 1956, continuous use until the pandemic when the Paganos retired and the last parking took over the operation of the parking lot. There are no changes proposed. Recently, trees were planted, mental fencing was added. B-P-D-A approved everything that's there. Now, unfortunately, we've been asked to come back every two years to ask for permission to continue to use the parking lot. I've been parking there for 48 years myself. I continue to park there. It's in continuous use. No changes. We're asking to have the conditional use extended without any sunset proviso at this point in time. It's the the fact our only parking lot for the work courthouse. I'm with all the new construction there, with the new paving, the new lines, removing the toilets and putting up new lighting. It's a pleasure to look at and it certainly serves the community. My understanding is everybody has been in favor of the of the reputation. Thank you. Anything I can help you with? Any questions from the board? Yes, Juvezu, that you planted some trees. How many trees did you plant it? There were four trees planted, sir. They're in Brioff, a bloom right now in spring. Thank you. And do you think there are chances to plant any more trees? I don't really think it's within an operable observance. It's just looking to plant more trees around the parking lot. Thank you. Thank you. All right, any other questions from the board? Hearing none, I'll take public testimony. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. I'm Sierra Jameco from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Applicant did complete the community process. They did meet with the Dmute Network Association and the West End Civic Association, in which they did receive a lot of support from both of those groups. And at this time, our office would like to to report to the board to the board to the judgment. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. Vanessa Wu from Council President Flynn's office. Council President Flynn would like to go on record and support based on feedback from members on the West End Civic Association, who indicated that they are not opposed to this extension as well. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, from the Council of Light, member of the firey, Council of the record and support. Dennis, are you looking to give testimony here? No, I'm sorry. All right, good Lord. Good Lord, you're here. And I have no additional questions. You have that. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to move forth a motion of approval with a proizo of a two-year extension with lighting, screening, and buffering. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Spebrich. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Bedabraza. Yes. Ms. Huayua. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good welcome. Thank you. Next, we have case BLA 14441137. The address being 205 Newberry Street. Is the applicant or their representative present? Good afternoon. This is Dennis Fulti Attorney representing the applicant. I have no camera option here. President Lincoln, you hear me? Yes, sir. Thank you very much. And yet on the attorney representing the applicant, Senator Per Holdings on the C, with us the session of the Phil Collicio was the owner operator. This is a request to remove a proizo, which was on this location, which was previously a cafe neuro, a Newberry Street in the block between Exeter and Fairfield. The applicant would like to occupy the space for a very similar purpose, food and beverage, and there would seek to remove the proizo, which was attributed to cafe neuro. And other than that, there is really nothing else from his own perspective. We're doing here. We have gone before the neighborhood association of the back bay. We reached out to the neighbors office of neighborhood services. And after the positive meeting was bad, we were not required to conduct the butters meeting. And again, literally, other than removing the proviso, there's no other change suggested by this application. Thank you. Any questions from the board? OK, here in that way with public testimony. Yes, hello, Madam Chair, members of the board, Maggie Van Scoy from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. At this time, our office would like to defer the judgment of the board. We actually did hold the nutters meeting for this proposal. A couple of butters at that meeting raised concerns about this particular restaurant adding to rodent and litter problems in the alley. Tappenair didn't do that because a lot of their things were pre-packaged. This would have a kitchen. The back bay association is in support of this application. And this applicant also presented to the neighborhood association of back bay, who is in non-opposition to this proposal. With that, I bid for the judgment of the board. Thank you. I think so. I have no additional waste in comments. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing nut may have a motion. Make the motion to approve. We have a second. Second. Second. All right. A lot of thorns and sports. Mr. Thamage. Yeah, yes. Mr. Shuppard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Yes. Sure. Also votes yes. Motion carries. One more case to go. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. OK. The next and last two are companion cases. And the first being in case BOA. 1, 2, 1, 4, 2, 7, 9, 4, 4. With the address being 294 South Street. And with that, with that is case BOA. 1, 4, 2, 7, 9, 4, 6. With the address being 294, R, South Street. The applicant and or their president. Yes. Good afternoon. I'm Ed and chair members of the board. I'm Snikle Chavez. I'm the architect and the representative for Mr. Rosales-Files was the owner. And also with me is Derek Thomas, the general contract on the project. Mr. Luis participated a few years back in D&Ds, which is now MOH, exploration of doing detached accessory dwelling units as part of a workshopping process they did in several neighborhoods. Throughout the process, he was exploring the idea of converting her existing one story to Cargarage and to an accessory unit to the house that she owns. Now it just exists in two families. And she decided to move forward with permitting on that process once we came out of that workshop with the city. So with that, she had to apply essentially for two applications. One of those was for the existing house to allow another dwelling unit on the property because the city of Boston does not only have a detached ADU program. And then the other application is then for the actual garage itself and the conversion of that two to the lipliful space. The garage design is a studio unit. It sits at the back of the driveway and will be connected utility-wise to the main house. So all sewer water and electricity will be connected to the main house as an accessory unit would be. The adjacent to the property is a BFW. So she's got some letter permission to have a fire check access from that side of the expensive thing needed to have access to that building for any reason. And the rest of the driveway would be used as 10 of parking spaces as it currently is being used now. I'm not sure if this is the old original submission or if this is the updated version. But again, it's a studio existing in Degarage and will convert it into a, yeah, this is the updated version. So again, a studio unit kitchenette bathroom, small sleeping slash living area, exciting to match the existing house for you tomorrow as it has to scale. And it's about the height will remain the same, the foot can remain the same from the exterior side of things. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Any questions from the board? Yes. Is she planning to, is the owner planning to rent this or to have a senate family living in? She will use this herself actually. She has family in different parts of the country and then also done in Mexico. So she tends to come and go. So she's currently renting the two family that she has and she will herself will be living here when she's near Boston. Okay, great. Thank you. No further questions. Any other questions from the board? Hearing that, can I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, a corner, anyone with the mayor's office and neighborhood services? The sound mayor's office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. I don't have a lot of information on this particular proposal, but would you understand that the applicant went to the Jamaican Plain Neighborhood Council and received their support as well as been indicated to us that other community members are in support as well without referring to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. And by the way, I have no resistance. Okay, you may have a motion. I'd like to prefer a motion of approval. May I have a second? A second. Thank you, Mr. Stemberidge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everyone, for your service today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next time. Recording stuff.