 you you you you you It's world board Good morning for June 6, 2023 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature this last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing. These things will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmooted when asked to comment. Or, regardless of applicants and their attorneys or representatives, you'll participate in the hearing as panelists. And they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as followed. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials and members of the public, the chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is individuals, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then can provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Stembridge needs to address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting hosts will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. Mr. Stembridge. Morning, Madam Chair, I hope you're welcome. President. Thank you, Mr. Shepard. Morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Valencia. We're more than Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. Bebraza. I see you. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Ms. We will. Morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair, President. Good morning, Mr. Stembridge. Yes, Madam Chair. First, first, I'm going to send a thank you. At 9.30 a.m., first, we have case B-O-A, 9.0, 9.40, 6.9.7. The address are 11.02, 11.02, 6.0, 6.0, 7. This is the first request for an extension. Decision expired on May 7, 1.23. So we have to go forward to determine if the additional, if it's an extension will be granted. There's the applicant here. Yeah. Yeah, some here. I'm present. OK, good morning. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, members of the board. And you put your name and address in the record. And just briefly, we walk us through the bus for extension. Yes. I'm sorry. I just been state your name out loud and your address. I'm sorry about that. Hi, my name is Clean on Byron. Any address that I'm asking about for extension is 11.02, Blinnell Avenue to 11.06, our Club of Mabnu. We're asking for the extension to continue our project for cannabis retail location in that area. Unfortunately, the process took a little bit longer plus we were beginning to COVID also. So we're just asking to see if we can get an extension from the board, please. And you're seeking a one year extension? Yes. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I'd like to give an option to grant an extension to May 7, 2024. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Schappler. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Beter-Borazza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. The chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everyone. Appreciate it. Thank you. The next case is basically in the same caliber. This being case, VOA, 115, 5218, with the address of 22 words worth of street. This is the first request for an extension that the decision expired on May 21 of this year. And if the applicant is present and explaining why that's not why it's necessary. It looks like the applicant is here. Jessica, does he need to be raised to a house? No, one second. William, go ahead. Hi. Thank you. Can you stop here? Yep. Go ahead. Yep. William, she's here for 22 words worth of street. I think the word permission for an extension for this two unit rehab project, East Boston. And you elaborate what's the reason for the extension? Go ahead. Just gathering the information. It's taking it much longer than anticipated. Most of the information that is needed by ISD is in my hands and just waiting for essentially one document and unfortunately time ran out within a couple of weeks. So just looking for roughly three month extensions, all I really need. Any other questions from the board? Here none may I have a motion? So I'll make a motion to grant the extension until September 6, 2023 for the three months. OK. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Berberaza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Next we have two companion extension cases. First being case B08, 114, 357. The address of 449 cases and with that case B08, 114, 356, the address of 2M will be broken. This is the first request for extension. The decision will expire on August 27th of this year. If granted, the new declaration date will be August 27th of 2020. It's yeah. Good. Good evening. I am here. Hi. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. For the record, my name is Adam Humbley from Coolston and stores at 400 Atlantic Avenue. I am the attorney for the owner. The owner remains very committed to the project and is actively working on the project. For example, we finalized article 80 documents early this year. In light of the time that it's taking to finalize the plans, the permitting and the financing arrangements for the project, we're respectfully requesting a one year extension of the zoning relief for the two buildings. Any questions from the board? Gary, none may have a motion. I make a motion for grant and extension to August 27th, 2024. May I have a second? That's right. Take it. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Yeah? Mr. Shupper? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Ms. Betabraza? Yes. Ms. Woulon? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have, as earlier in case of the data expired, this being case, the OA, 10666748, with the address being 318, 320 East Street. This is the first request for an extension. The decision expired on January 29th of this year. Yeah, if the applicant is present, would they explain the situation? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Secretary, members of the board, Attorney Nick Sizzoulam, Dermacolty Miller, 28th State Street in Boston, here on behalf of Jim O'Donney-Hew from Broadway, a land company who's the property owner and developer. Requesting the one year extension of the zoning relief granted on this project. The project was to construct a new third floor rear in fill addition to an existing multi-family residential building. As Mr. Secretary mentioned, this is the first requested zoning extension for this matter. Mr. O'Donney was not aware of the expiration date in January. He was under the impression that the COVID-19 state of emergency applied to his zoning relief as a project was heard and approved during the state of emergency, which was an effect till June 15th, 2021. And this was approved in January 29th, 2021. So right, Dermacolty, you know, during the middle of the state of emergency. So he thought that the project's two-year relief period didn't in fact begin until June 15th, 2021, which means that its period wouldn't have ran until June 15th, 2023, meaning he thought that the extension request was timely when he made it in. He has all the permits and approvals in place. The one thing he's working on is just final BPA design review stamped plans as required under the zoning decision provisos. So he's ready willing and able to form on the approvals. And so we are asking for a one-year extension, I guess, from January 29th, 2023, meaning we would ask for the extension until January 29th, 2024. I'm happy to go in in more detail if you'd like Madam Chair. On the bedstair rationale behind the request. Thank you. Thank you. You know, you're addressing my questions. Are there any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I make a motion to grant an extension until January 29th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stumberidge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Baraza. Yes. Mr. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. The Chair House of Roots, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Everybody for the understanding and flexibility. We really appreciate it. Next case is again in some more situation. Just being. Oh. No, I'm not. Okay. This is case B081066736, the address of one to two church Avenue. This is the press request for an extension. The decision expired on April 23rd of this year. The applicant is present at the explain the situation. Please. Yes, sir. Sorry, Mr. Stumberidge, for stepping on you. I thought you wanted me to jump in. Attorney Vixzzola, McDermacolti and Miller. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. This is the same developer. Jim O'Donohue. It's right nearby at one to two church Avenue. It's a very similar situation, both almost companion cases where this is just a conversion of an occupancy from a two family to a four family with a small addition in the back. And this expired April 23rd, 2021, so a little bit more recently. It's the same, same spiel as I gave before. I don't know if I need to go through it, Madam Chair, but we'd ask for an extension until April 23rd, 2024. Same issue, same developer, same thought processes, the one right before us. Thank you. So it's the same issue he's in BPDA design review? Yes, ma'am. Yeah, both, they're literally around the corner from each other. Similar situations. He's just trying to get to that final process, but he was under the understanding that it went till June 15th, 2023, which is why we were loaded behind on the extension request. So, yes, same, literally the same thing, just different address. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, motion. Make a motion to grant the extension to April 23rd, 2024. We have a second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Braza. Yes. We will. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Sure. Also votes, yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case, be aware. 116, brief 856. The address of 1175, go just the revenue. This is the first request for extension, for an extension. The decision will expire on July 9th of this year. If granted, the new expiration date will be July 9th. What's the second? Yes, Mr. President. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Nick Szilho, again, McDermick will be in Miller 28 State Street, and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Mr. 1175, LLC, as the owner of property. This is different than the first two, thankfully. This is the request in one year extension until July 9th, 2024. As Mr. Secretary, run into the record, it is the first zoning extension. There are just a few remaining post-approval actions that need to be handled with other city agencies in order for the project to obtain a building permit with ISD. The understanding is the construction drawings are pretty much finalized, along with plans, the MEP plans for mechanical, electrical plumbing and engineering. So we're close on this one as well, but we do need a little bit more time. So we're asking for one year extension. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here none may have a motion. I make a motion to grant an exception to July 9th, 2024. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepherd. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betapurazo. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, Mayor. Mr. Alsovots, yes. Motion carries. We'll see you later. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm done for the day. You don't have to do it. Thank you. I'm not going to go on. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. And for the last extension, this will be a different program. This being case B-O-A-1-1-5-6565, with the address being 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. The address is 79.4. I see. Are you on? I'm so hoping you raise your hand. I don't see the name of the I don't see the name of the I don't see the name of the I don't see the name of the the 10D section. the 10D section. Okay, well, it doesn't sound like the need any action from us. So how here do we need to take So how here do we need to take any vote? I am not sure if they filed that I am not sure if they filed that in writing writing that in writing. But it's gonna be safe Oh, soo to do all weather straw. Aaron ok okay or Jan need to ID. Please do about Your 5 a game. Yes, Yes, Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Betapurraza. Yes. Miss Wheel of. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Thank you. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Next move on to the final offer to cases. The schedule is 930. First we have case. No way. 886. 016. We have been in two South Street. The applicant is present. Who's playing the situation? No, please. I'll see a hand raise once I can't. Mitch go ahead. I just sent a request on you. Yep. Hi. Good morning. Thanks for having the hearing. We're basically trying to this this had a contingency of no Sundays on this application. And we're hoping that could be reviewed. We're in the process of building right now still the profoundly making some good headway on the space. When this was issued, there was, you know, not that much experience with cannabis facilities being open. And now I feel like we've seen a lot of experience. We have a lot more open. And as far as I know, this would be the only location. Wouldn't be a lot of the open Sundays. With spot is, you know, Sunday is represent probably like the fourth, fourth busiest day of the week. So it can be kind of a financial hardship there. And I was just wondering if that decision could be revisited. Or I think that the application said it would be revisited in one year. After we open or we could somehow expedite that or or or eliminated that would be that would be amazing. So can you take a step back? Are you open? How long have you been open? And you know, have there been any issues? No, we have not been open. We're not open. We are in the process of building. We right now we anticipate being done with construction in July. I hope you get our certificate of occupancy there. There will still be another probably four to five month process with state after that. So we hope to be open by the end of the year. I'm sort of basing this on the fact that, you know, I believe this is the only location in Boston that wouldn't be allowed to be open Sundays. And you know, we're just hoping that the board will look at that and see. I don't know if we've seen a lot of problems with places being open. On Sundays. I think you haven't opened yet. None of us were present when this was approved. So we don't have the benefit of the community's feedback around that. Madam chair, I reviewed the drawings and that I actually was present for that. Okay. Can I hear it? But the question, I'm not sure you're opening up for questions from the board member yet. I was happy to do so. The only question I have is what were you looking for in terms of ours of operation on Sunday? On Sundays, we would probably do like a 12 to 8. I mean, I'm happy to work with whatever the board sees fit. But we would be closing a little bit earlier either 12 to 7 or 12 to 8. Okay. All right. No further questions. Could I ask a question of who was better for us since you were a buzzer for this? I mean, I guess my question would be whether, you know, what the community feedback was around that since it looks like it but, you know, apart. And obviously it's, you know, residential surrounding it. So I don't know if there was that. Yeah. I mean, I'm looking that the data that hearing was dated back in January of 2021. If the applicant stating that it would be the only operation that was that is not open on Sundays, I can see why they're appearing in front of us today. There is a park nearby. So maybe there were some concerns with family activities across the site. But I don't find a request being out of the ordinary. Okay. Any other questions? Like at that time, we didn't have feedback from the community. That was against it. That was strictly something just sort of brought up by the board at the time. And so that's that's sort of why we're here trying to revisit it as well. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay. Okay. Have you or does this require opening up to public testimony or is this? If you do not, you don't have to, but that's up to me, Chair. Okay. So it doesn't necessarily, but if you think it requires it, you can request a test. No, I think that's fine. Is there any other questions from the board? May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I put forward a motion to remove the proviso of the Sunday operation and to have the hours of operation from 12 to 7. May I have a second? Well, it's the moment. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Schupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betapurasa. Yes. Ms. Ruewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. No. The Chair also votes no, but the motion carries. Next case. Thank you. Okay. Next case is BOA 132 0835. The address being 9 human street is the applicant for the representative present. Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning. Attorney Joseph Feister. Should I receive Madam Chair? Yes, sir, please do. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge. Mr. Secretary of the board, Joseph Feister. The whole firm of Dane Torpe. 175 federal street, 15, 100, Boston. This may be considered by the board as an unusual request, but I think not, and I think it's important to bring this issue before the board. Seeking almost similar to the previous applicant for the board by the orbiter, they remove over provisional and are occasionally to provisional. That is no living space in the basement. And the reason why I'll go through a history of this and David III, the architect, is on the board requires not a true additional design type of information. That's not my value, so I'll leave it to the architect. But the reason why I'm bringing this request before the board once again is that it seems in conflict with the desires of the neighborhood. Some of the city of Boston housing and poverty, policy such as the additional dwelling unit issues, policy that the city is put into effect, and some neighboring decisions with regards to this, beside the impact that it has on my client, the developer's desire to increase the housing product here in the city of Boston. So let me walk the board through a little bit of the history. This project has had community support from the outset. The original submission was sometimes back in 2021, and that was at that time the project was designed with basement, with bedrooms in the basement. The board rejected that proposal, and so the developer came back, my client came back with another design, which moved the basement bedrooms, and just sort, and moved it up to the first floor, and then sort, just have living space in the lower level. That's consistent with many buildings in the city of Boston, many buildings which are being developed in design, and supported by this board in the immediate area, and with my submission for the board of final governor, I refer to buildings that 109 Ellington Street, and at 10 Walcott Street. Now I know that having served on the board, I know our position on the board is that it's not any decision, it's not presidential to the one that's before you, but I would like the board to take that into account. As I pointed out, this has been supported by the neighborhood throughout the entire process, the air letters from the community organizations that exist there, and quite frankly, this proposal that that language is remained, not only does it deny my client of being able to provide to these homeowners the ability to use their living space in the lower levels, but as well almost makes the unit non-marketable. So that's the basis for my request that the board would eliminate just the proposal of no living space in the basement. I'm looking at trying to do bedrooms that was denied in the first case, that is not what we're proposing here. If there are specific questions on the design issues, Madam Chair, I would ask for you to allow David Fried to respond to. All right, thank you. Any questions from the board? I had an opportunity to review the documents, and so right now it is a 3F5000, and currently you have a 3 unit, correct? And you like to make it a 4 unit with if the basement is haveable. Can you clarify that? Can I have Ms. Faraday? Can I have Mr. Fried respond to that? Yes, if he's available. He just needs a beyond unit. He's the one who has a panelist. Yes, this is David Fried. I'm an architect at Shuin Company. The original design was 4 units, all of which are duplexed units. And at the approval from the board of the project, they eliminated the living space in the basement, so we ended up with 2 duplexed units and 2 small floors through units on the first floor with just empty living space in the basement. So how many units total at that point? Still 4 units. 4 units. So right now it's a 3F5000, but you're getting 4 units out of it without the basement. Yes. Okay, so you are maximizing the use of the land. It's not that it's a hardship because we eliminated the basement originally. They just ended up being very, very small units. Okay, so then the other question is the basement as you propose does meet the 45 inch max height correct? Yes. Still. Okay. The only thing that I see that's a problem is with a multi-family, you need a 7 for 6 feeling height. You only have 7 for 4. Oh, 7 says on the plant? That's what the only drawing that was legible from your submission, what's the basement unit? And it's that 7 for 4. Oh, I don't recall that our drawings say 8 feet. Okay. You always we calculate if you count the number of risers, it's based on an 8 foot ceiling height. Okay, and then it has two means of egress, right? One going to the top unit and one to the back. Yes, one has a direct egress outside. And then the other one is going to the first floor unit, correct, and internal stairs. They both actually have egress directly outside from the guard level. Egress up to the first floor. So I see this. This is just for Eric. If I might interject, this is attorney Becer. It's seemingly maybe we need to submit updated plans that just sound like what you may be looking at. It's not consistent with what we have submitted and what's being considered. So I can sound like that might be the confusion. Okay. And I think Jeff Hampton's hands are up. Great. Thank you. No for the police. Hi, Jeff. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Just put a little bit of context. Why the group at the time was hesitant about the basement space was because of the construction. It wasn't expanding into the bottom into an already existing basement. I think they had a problem with it being new construction. It ended up in more expensive the basement. That was the error. Okay, sir. I think they had to make a recommendation one way or the just going through the nodes of the hearing that because of whose new construction, I think that's why they were really against the living space and basement. Thank you. Other questions from the board? Yes, if the proponent can see again how are they going to use this basement? Is this going to be part of what a parliament or what unit? Or is this going to be their own unit just to clarify that one more time? Yes, so the basement will be used as the kitchen, let me tell you later. And the bedroom system moved up to the first floor. Okay, so this is going to have one of their apartments. This is going to be clear. They leave a space for one of the units only for two units. So, Madam Chair, I don't have those drawings as you'll kitchen on the ground floor. And then I would like to hear from Jeff what's the BPD 8 opinion and having kitchen living space and the basement and then putting bedrooms at the top. Well, the last iteration of the board was always a candidate to start that group's the basement. I don't know if we have to be able to see if they have a kitchen with another room. They are. But I have a question for the 30 days over here. I just wanted to make sure when you're having this room in the past, I assume you already received something with the FAR. Yes. This is that. We have fordention. Oh, no, no, no, no. The whatever. Just an answer to that particular question. Yes, we have received their only relief for FAR and I just don't respond to the September to what was indicated with the sentiment of the board at the previous hearing. Yes, there was the distinction made between existing properties for using the living space versus new development, which this is. It was also suggested about well eliminating the living space in the basement and increasing the height, which was something which was not discussed in the year, which is neighborhood and would be creeped would also further another violation. So yes, so the answer to your question specifically, yes, FAR was allowed and permitted by the board in this previous vote. And at the end, you're you're just accommodating for units. Yes. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion with two provisor one that the drawings be submitted to the board, the correct drawings, and that that it's approved without a building court relief. May I have a second? Uh, better second. Yeah, better. Sorry. Sorry, this is obvious. I just want to clarify, was that an approval for what they're doing? So I'm so motion of approval with the condition that drawings be submitted to the board. And that there would be no building code relief. Thank you. I had a second. Second. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasa. Yes. Mr. Ruewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Thank you. The last four, four, we'll find a long space. Either the case, or be away. One, three, nine, nine, two, six, five. With the accuracy of 60, R, and R, and R, and three. The applicant will represent the president. Morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Carmen Barsome and Dietrich. I'm a resident at 60 Alvin Street, presenting for 60, R, all in. We are asking for your approval on four amendments to our original construction plan at 60, R, Alvin, which the BPDA has previously approved and stamped. The changes are as following. First, in order to support our aging family, my parents and grandparents, we have amended the plans from a two car garage to a one car garage in order to provide a bedroom and a full bathroom on the first floor. We had originally planned only to use the one garage space for parking and the other for storage as we do have ample space in our driveway for our vehicles. So the change will not be any, you know, parking in position. Second, we have amended the plans to include the full bathroom on the first floor. We have thus reduced from a two and a half bath to two full baths with one on each floor. Third, while there's an apparent increase in living space compared to our previous proposal by taking over the one garage bay, the overall living space has actually decreased, according to the initial sketches, as they did not account for the raw sickness of the ICF that we are using. It's a total of about 12 inches thick once you take into account the 11 inch block and the sheathing. Recalculating to account for the thicker ICF walls, we find that we have a lower square footage than the original 1396 that we had submitted. We now have 1367 square feet of living space. And fourth, we have also considered the size and the living space and it decided to adjust the roof line from an a frame to a modified hip garner on the east and west sides specifically so that there will be more headroom in the offices and monitoring space upstairs respectively. We note that the inspection engineer Vernon Lee at Inspectional Services has confirmed and there are no additional violations. The dimensions and basic design including footprint, setbacks and roof heights remain the same as our initial drawings. And we also have our architect a new client on the line if there are any technical questions. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Yes, and it was a question that I was trying to get clarification from in terms of the applicant. Can you just date what was the previous square footage of living space using the same method that you're using in the proposal with the ICF? I just want to have a comparison. Certainly, we actually have our architect Nell Piot on the line able to address that question specifically if that's all right. Of course. Hello, board. My name is Nell Piot. Can everyone hear me okay? Yes, sir. Okay, great. So the previous construction at the ground floor only was assuming two by six framed walls. Yeah, can I just get a square footage? A square footage before, after using the same dimension standards measurement guidelines. Okay, you're looking for a square footage. Not net square footage. Okay. There hasn't been a change to the footprint. So the square footage is technically the same. And that number is... What's the living space because you remove the garage? What's the delta from the old and new? The delta from the old and new is 244. Okay, 244. So you're increasing the living space by 244? Yes. Okay, that's all I wanted to know. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Okay, hearing none. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to perform a motion of approval. May I have a second? A second. Missed medical Rosa, if I could, who we asked for the department review, that's an ash park. And that's it in the OD. Yes, to include the VPVA design review, I just removed it because the applicants said that they already had undergone VPVA design review and that's why they were coming in front of us. Yeah, but I think when they got in the VPV, that's the only question. Yeah, I'm not sure if we could just add that in the emotion. So if we can restate the motion. Thank you. All right, would you like to restate your motion? Sure. Motion of approval with VPVA design review. Second, may I have a second? Second. Mr. Stammeridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Miss Berberaza. Yes. Miss Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion, Harry. It's good luck to you. Thank you. Can you just clarify what you meant with the VPVA design review? It just means it needs to go back to them before final. Yeah, if we have it stiffed, the change in the graphine because it's in the paper with design overlay district and a ash park, we're going to have to take a look at it again. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next, we have one round of conservation over the district case. That being case of the LA 146, 007, with the address of 577 Massachusetts Avenue. It's the applicant for the representative. Hi, who should be on? Who is that? Hi, I'm Chair and members of the group. This is a a conversion from the legend house to a full wedding unit. The only violation we have is the G-Corp Article 32. We have obtained a approval from Boston Voward and Suhrb. We have a letter of no harm from the BGT and our Christians, engineers. And then we have also a letter of compliance issued by the Boston Voward and Suhrb. The Boston Voward and Suhrb also has been involved and it has been approved. Mr. Kahnan Aliah to confirm? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning, Christian Somali, Gloss and Brown Water Trust and we have both letters from the applicant. Great, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? One more. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I have the Act to put forward a motion for approval with provisos that plans to be submitted to the Boston Landmarks Commission for the San Praviyu for any exterior changes. Okay, may I have a second? Okay. Mr. Steinbridge? Yes. Okay, Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Parasa? Yes. Yes. Mr. Langen? Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Before we go into the hearings scheduled for 9.30 a.m., we'll ask if there any request for withdrawals that are brought from this time group. I do have a raise hand here once again, so make sure. Michelle, are you looking for a deferral here? Any injury? You probably do not. I don't know if the injury has a question for something else, but I'm right. Let's proceed then. Moving on to the hearing of the scheduled for 9.30 a.m., the first is case VOA 144 7018. The address of 23. Remonstrate. Is the applicant or the representative first? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Madam Chair, members of the board. It's your new Ryan Spitz with Adams and Marancy business address of 168 great streets self-hosting first floor. With me today is the applicant Nick Beijin from Alpha Properties as well as James Christopher from 686 Architects. This proposal seeks to subdivide the existing 55,584 square foot lot at 120,000 street creating too long. If I can direct your attention to page two in three of the drawings, block A located on 120 baps and street will consist of approximately 43,704 square feet and block B will be 43 through 47 three-month street that will consist of 12,150 square feet which will include the direction of the proposal of 10 new residential dwelling units with nine off-street arcing spaces. The building will be all electric compliance of the stretch code and fully sprinkles. It will also be equipped with an elevator for accessibility. Two of those units will be offered as affordable units to comply with the mayor's affordable housing initiative at 20% affordability. All units will be owner occupied. The proposal is located within a 2F6000 sub districts. The building footprint is around 6200 square feet which is approximately 50% block coverage and will comply with some of the rules and regulations surrounding the play amount of hand initiative. The units will range from approximately 455 square feet to 1126 square feet if I can now direct your attention to page five of the drawings. On the left hand side of the first floor, there will be a main lobby entrance, middle room, utility room, as well as a bike storage room. Also on the first floor will consist of a one bedroom and a two bedroom with small patio recessed into the footprint of the building. Those units will be located again on the left hand side. On the right hand side of the first floor will be the parking garage area for night parking spaces. Four of those spaces are full-size spaces and five will be compact spaces. There will also be a storage room for indoor trash facility. Second floor will consist of one studio, one bedroom and four two bedroom units. Each unit will have balcony set within the building as well. Third floor will be set back from the front in rear which will consist of two one bedrooms. Both units will have a small walkout deck area. The applicant is here seeking relief for use as multifamily use is forbidden. Oster parking, one space per unit is required by code and we are only proposing nine spaces. We have a violation for the floor area ratio. Point eight is what is required. We are actually seeking a point nine five and just to bring your attention within those there was an administrative error in the drawing sustaining nine point five and again we are seeking point nine five. Building night is excessive and both height and stories. Proposal calls for 37 feet and three stories and what is compliant is 35 feet and two and a half stories and lastly we have a violation for open space where required to provide 8,000 square feet and the proposal provides 5,860 and 7,3 square feet. At this time I am going to pause for any questions from the boy. Thank you. Ms. Ben-Barrows, have you reviewed the playoffs? And I'm sure I review the plans. I don't have any questions. Questions from the court? I have one question. Yes sir. How many units are going to be low income units? Two. So it was required from us for the IDP percentage is 13% but we took the initiative to comply with the mayor's initiative of 20% affordability. Is there only two units? Yes correct. Okay. And for what income levels are those two units? Yes so with this being ownership so the income levels of the AMRs are approximately anywhere from 80 to 100% AMR. Any other questions from the board? We'll open it up to public testimony. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Eric James from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant for 43 free-month street complaint of mutters meeting on April 18, 2023. Guys here, are you okay? Yes sir. All right thank you. Oh All right. So completed in the butter speeding on April 18, 2023. They also met with the greater matter pan-nual council who chose to recommend the following provisos. They stated that they want to reduce the number of units from 10 to 6 to address the density issues and to preserve the open space. So as of now our office has received no letters of support or opposition to this project and we are looking to defer our judgment to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I could just respond to Mr. James's comments, I'm wishing stock of true Mr. Secretary can attest to this. There were approximately 40 letters of support from immediate directive butters and neighbors that were submitted as well. Those were also given to the mayor's office of neighborhood service as well as the great-grand Madam Pn A. council. Do you have those Mr. Stembridge? Yes we do. Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with provisos that won the plan undergoals BPDA design review paying special attention to the character of the neighborhood on the exterior and to that it has an agreement be issued by MOH prior to issuing permit. Madam Chair, I'm sorry I need to make sure that there's two IDP units with the MOH agreement. Yes, okay sounds good. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. It's better for us. Yes. Yes we will. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Great thank you. Thank you very much. Next we have case B08147963 with the address of 15 Bell Nell Road. If the applicant may otherwise be a representative. Yes. Yes. Hello. Yes. Yes. Yes. Oh. This is Hosek Hussmann on the Architect of Record for 50 Bell Road Project. Can you hear me? Yes sir. Yes sir. Okay. Should I make a presentation or should I wait for you? Can you walk us through your proposal and violations please? Sure. This is a conversion of a one family to a two family. So we're adding an addition to the to the existing house that is located on on a corner lock and it has a full basement with bedrooms at the lower basement and living space on the first floor bedrooms at the second level and a master bedroom at the attic level. And we're asking for relief or for a converting from a one family to a two family. Any questions on the plans? I would like to hear Jeff Hampton's BPA recommendations because I didn't see any or at least or at least VTD as well as recommendation on the front yard parking. Yeah. My hall is the best. I don't know why it's making it over to you. We recommended for with the providers that increase the rear end die yard defects as well as consolidating the parking spaces and show that reduces the the impervious payment and the new for ability. Jeff is that with the assumption that through the BPA design review you would eliminate the front yard parking? Yes. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry about that. Yeah. Thank you for that question. Any other questions from the board? I'm Chair. If you have a comment from Bartemiko. Oh, yes, please. You're right. Please come over. Too many spaces in the front yard. But question nine is what it will. Okay. I think that is addressed by Mr. Hampton's recommendation. Any other questions from the board? We open it up to public testimony. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. This is Danielle Fonseca with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant completed a community process and presented their proposed development for $50 road to the Bell Nell Family Neighborhood Association and neighbors in the area and in a butter's meeting that I hosted on February 15th. They also met with the Bell Nell Family Neighborhood Association at another community meeting and during both processes they answered questions from neighbors and the direct of butters. The Bell Nell Neighborhood Association hasn't received any opposition to this proposal from the community that they cover. And they only request that the redevelopment project takes place during permitted times between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. and that all the contracting equipment and materials are stored in parts illegally within the construction site. We've received no opposition or additional letters of support for this project and at this time we wish to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, you have no raised hands at the moment. Thank you. Just for the applicant can you confirm that you can comply with those requests from the Neighborhood Association, the 7 a.m. and the 6 p.m. and the construction and equipment within your property? Yes, yes. We will comply. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with provisels. One is to have a site plan review with BPDA to determine the location of the addition to increase rear yard and side yard setback and to consolidate the parking so that there be no front-ear parking to the property. Okay, wait, I have a second. Take a look at that. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Brasic. Yes. Mr. Langem. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you board members for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you everyone. Next we have two campaigning cases. Good. Be it the first of the B.O.A. 1417475 with the address being 8 night street and the second and the companion case that case B.O.A. 1417476 with the address being 10 10 night street. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Good. Moeng. Madam Chair. Members of the board. This is Mike Ross. New law firm of Prince Lowell. I'm here with my client, Melissa Rosales, who is an owner occupant of this existing two family building at 8 night street where she lives with her family. I'm also here with Benjamin Lee, the architect for the proposal. What we're trying to do here today is add a three family structure onto the existing oversized lot that you see here in front of you. Just 17,000 322 square feet without having to demolish this 19 early 1900s two family structure. So as you know, this is a 2 F 5000 so each lot could work with a 5,000 square foot lot. You could do here 3,000, 5,000 within that 17,000 to get 6 units. What we're proposing is to add to the existing two units a 3 family. So we would have a total of 5 units. If you go to the next slide, I can show you what the division of the lot looks like. So keeping the existing structure where it is 8 night street, we would just be demolishing that rear deck there. We would be able to fit a new 3 family structure called 10 night street off there on the right side of the lot. Also using the existing curb cuts that are on both Reedville and on night street. You can go to the next slide please. And here this is a good way of showing you kind of the parking layout. So there would be a total of 5 units. Like I mentioned, zoning requires two units per, sorry, two parking spaces per unit. So that'll be 10. We do show 10 parking spaces here, 8 off the rear of the property there, and then 2 in the front yard. Now we kept the 2 in the front yard of night street there because that is an existing curb cut with a nice stone wall that I'll show you in a moment. Recognizing that that does throw off a violation and I'll get into the violations in a moment. And because those 2 spaces are tandem, it doesn't give us the 10 by zoning. So we were cited by for just only having 9 instead of 10 parking spaces and I'll get into the violations in a moment. I just want to quickly walk you through the house. So we're the compass to get to the back of the spots. Yep, so that's a new existing. That would be off Reedville street. That's an existing curb cut. Next slide please. So here's just the floor plans. The left is the basement. Basement is not allowed in a in this zoning district and then on the right is the first floor. And what you have is a three bedroom one bath 1200 square foot unit and that would be unit number one. If you go to the next slide on the second and third floor, the second floor you also have a three bedroom one bath 1200 square foot unit on the second floor and then on the third floor it's a bit smaller because you know the building tapers and dormers at the top. And so that's also a three bedroom one bath but it has a it's only 1,075 square feet. If you go to the next slide I'll just show you the elevations quickly. So you know as you can see and a typical architecture of the area with a front protruding bay the first the second and third units both have a front and rear small porch area and then you can have the dormant top as mentioned. Next slide please. This is just an existing condition photo just to give you a sense of that stone wall. This is a long night street where eight night street currently faces and then to the right of eight night street is that existing curb cut that I mentioned often night street and that's where we would be proposing the three family structure would go right there. I think if you just want to put it back to to the second side I can walk you through the zoning relief we're seeking and the second side is a good side to do it on. I did want to mention that no trees will come down as a result of this. There will be 25 plantings around the immediate area after the construction is completed. In terms of the zoning relief eight night street because we are adjusting up creating a new property line between eight and nine and eight and ten there will be a side yard insufficient violation created so instead of the ten port that's required there would be around five feet at the side yard. They cited us for a rear yard insufficient which the rear yarders were quite of 40. We've been existing 28.1 what rear yard today we're not we're not adding a square foot to the rear yard so I'm not sure they necessarily have to cite us on that but they didn't so that's in relationship to ten. I mean eight night street in relation to ten which is the proposed three family we're talking about. There were several violations I'll quickly walk through them the parking in the front because it's within five feet of the front. We recited article 10 section 1 we were also cited for parking as I mentioned earlier. Nine instead of ten parking spaces we recited for a building alignment conformity we recited for allowing parking to go through another lot to get to for the three family so accessory parking is now allowed to traverse through eight night street that's where we're cited for that. We recited for parking in the front of the lot which I mentioned earlier on night street and the use this is a three family and it's in a two-f district. They cited us for a lot insufficient however we have a lot here six to six seven and a two f five thousand so I'm not sure we needed to be cited on that one. They did cited for floor area excessive the FAR for this area and a two f five thousand is 0.5 and we're at 0.73 I'll point out that the eight night street FAR is around a quarter 0.25 they're about so if you average to that we would actually be right there but of course that's not the case we're dividing the lot so we're at 0.73 as I mentioned. The building height in this area is two and a half stories and we're probably two and three quarter stories we exceed the half story and so we recited for that usable open space on the ten street lot requires seven one seven five zero per unit we're at one three zero zero per unit and then finally also likewise the side yard we're at a six point two eight and a thirteen when ten is required on both sides I'll pause there I'm sure it's either any questions. Mr. Hampton did you have a recommendation? Yes thank you ma'am. I'm just bored and we have an extra-dissive meeting to the world to do it's essentially the same kind of recommendations the last one. I'm holding it in front of our parking and the first thing to be at space that we have on record is supportive of it with design review with the location of the FAR. Okay and Mr. Stembridge did Mr. Domingo also weigh in on that? I'm basically saying excuse me. Oh you're here? Okay sorry. Sorry. Sorry but that's okay. Madam Chair? Yes. Members of the board Bob the BGB TV. First of all I'd like to say two two spaces in the front yard be removed. The two spaces be with it I don't know where that comes from but historic purposes we always go at the most one point five spaces per unit that was our maximum and secondly if I can look at the slide is the garage going to be demolished? Yes Mr. Domingo the existing garage will be demolished. Okay that's about it I just recommend two front yard parking spaces be removed because it was set up they just pressed that thank you Madam Chair. Okay thank you. Other questions from the board? Madam Chair this is just an observation I find that there is an extraordinary amount of impervious surface and I would almost recommend that the applicant really removes that impervious surface and gives it back to open green space. Can you just clarify how wide is that curb cut on Breederville? I might ask you to go to Madam Ambassador the first slide and I'm hoping we put a measurement we don't have a measurement there it does look it feels like it's 25 feet 30 feet. We're going with existing ones there but we certainly can you know reduce it to a 10 foot driveway if that's correct. Okay. Great thank you. Other questions from the board? We're not having public testimony. Morning Madam Chair members of the board and the Alpha on Seika with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services the applicant said complete the community process and I hosted in a butters meeting for this proposal on December 14th they also met with the High Park Neighborhood Association and the applicant herself back in July connected with that neighborhood group before they started their community process and then again after the butters meeting with that group in January so the High Park Neighborhood Association wanted an updated refusal letter for the proposal and the violations for insufficient rot size and insufficient open space to be added to the revised letter and once they received that new refusal letter they rediscussed the project on their agenda in May and after completing their review the High Park Neighborhood Association has decided to submit testimony in non-opposition which has been sent to the board and they are just hoping that the new structure will be built as attractive as the structure for eight night street currently is and at this time you would receive no additional letters of support or opposition so we do wish to differentiate it to the board thank you thank you the morning madam chair members of the board Jordan free as here from council or caro warden's office let's go on record and support of this thank you madam chair I have no raised hands you will that may have a motion I would like to put forward a motion we BTDA sorry both in transportation department review to ensure that parking is no more than 1.5 parking spaces per unit and BPDDA BPDDA design review or to confirm a motion to approve with those two providers correct I think may have a second second um is there something okay uh mr. Stambridge yes mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes miss better brazo yes as we will yes mr. Langon yes share also votes yes motion carries thank you very much everyone next we have two two more companion cases first being case BOA one two four four it's one four the dresser 87 parking room along with that we that case BOA one four four six one eight the dresser being 91 parking it's the applicant and with their representative president good morning madam chair members of board my name is Mark O'Hrens an owner and managing partner of eksan for builders balls on our properties so today's proposal and I apologize I have a different presentation I can provide but this is the proposed plan would be to increase the driveway space and parking from currently already existing two spaces that exist in a standard driveway to expand the driveway to the rear of the of both buildings and increased total of four parking spaces both buildings 87 I'm 91 respectively both have fully approved long form permits for full demo um I'm sorry full gut construction which is near completion currently we've also had several community hearings and received support climate community as there's a significant limited parking on arcan road and Jamaican plain we do plan on relocating the curb cut to be centered on the driveway between the two buildings currently there isn't existing curb cut but it's offset that submission is in its final state approval waiting for the last signature which we expect to have by the end of this month uh be open to any questions and appreciate today's session so to confirm you're it's an easement between the two properties so that they can both access their two parking spots new correct there's there's an easement of two new properties and I apologize that invention we also have fully approved plans from VWSC for both properties for the water and fill and mitigate mitigation as well as cemented lines and approved permits to be able to do all the direct connections to the drainage lines and the stream and deal with any rough thank you any questions from the board well I'm sure the question right the out again um why is there additional paving beyond the parking spaces so like between the property line and the parking just to clarify this we've all there you describe on the left and right side or really just the left side behind building 87 for both yeah so 87 it's along that I guess when you're facing the property the right property line and then for 91 it's between the parking space and the rail offline uh those are both added just for mobility in the space behind the buildings um there is adequate space for two cars per side however with especially with the um utility all that's in the middle trying to make sure that the cars can navigate around the corner of both buildings safely was a concern so we made sure that we asked all into space both for that perspective and from maintenance perspective trying to make sure that for the future owners it was you know more straightforward for them to manage through the wintertime period okay thank you any other questions from the board I would like to hear um about Demiko's recommendation on the aisle and parking layout yes madam chairman of the board about the makeover cd um the driveway is 10 foot wide assuming that they get permission to use the property on the other side of the coming building um that's okay and I have to say I agree with the applicant only because in order for these automobiles they get in and out they're gonna need that space um which is unfortunate but for that to work they need the payment area that is reflected uh in these plans and as far as the tandem parking is concerned um if it's public that's a problem since it's private we tend to go along with that because obviously the people that are living there have to work out how that works but from a new mobility standpoint I understand that there's one kind that might be difficult but again since it's um uh residential we can go along with that thank you it gives the drink a any other questions from board I mean okay okay outside or he also uh all different he was browser I was just gonna say like um uh why is this needed now and how do you usually park your cars for the two properties so just to clarify and and apologies that there was I guess additional sheets in this presentation to show the existing the existing has uh two tandem spaces directly upletting the street coming in towards the center the two properties and then it stops there's there was historically two parking spaces in that location um as we take an ownership of the buildings and and um a little process of updating their the renovation trying to increase parking off street on park them because there there is not available on street parking to be able to place any of the tents um when we have not increased the number of bedrooms number of units or anything about the volume dwelling however in today's world it seems not uncommon that six units would have at least six cars and with the two spaces that were there we felt that reasonable to try and add additional parking to at least a comedy um some additional tenants as well as trying to see how it relates some of the street parking okay I we didn't have the room the additional pages who only had the site plans so thank you for that clarification thank you for the question as well yeah um mr. Overnor would you client be amenable to permeate um materials instead of asphalt uh so we have research that and uh the feedback from several different installers was that the minions concern especially with the winters and the slope of the property um is that it would become extremely challenging expensive for the future owners to be able to manage that through the winter time so it was their recommendation that we go with impervious and that was how BWSC had reviewed and approved the plans for all the water runoff and sizing uh so I guess mr. Overnor I wouldn't say that the owners or the or the contractor are fundamentally opposed to it it just was a specifically not recommended by subject matter experts on the topic so Katie Katie that is to answer your kind of concerns we have in the past put some proposals to use um poor's material uh they are it is accurate that for snow removal at times you have to do it by hand but again those that are very conscientious of the environment would go to that effort of that extra effort okay with that let's open it up to put with testimony yes madam chair members of the board of conor newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services this time the mayor's office is deferred to the judgment this board our office held in the butters meeting on March 22nd of 2023 uh the applicant then went on to newman the JP and seeing uh which approved this proposal on April 12th our offices received no letters of opposition at this time with that will defer to the board thank you thank you I mentioned I have no words hands without ma'am emotions I'll make a motion um to approve with the following provisos that the plans undergo uh actually we already got the feedback from dom dom dom decals so I'll just have a motion of approval um with uh a parisos of bpda design review of attention to the site went to increase open space and reduce in purpose surface thank you uh ma'am a second how fat that mr. start and reach yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes this better braza yes and as we welcome yes mr. Langham yes chair also looks yes motion carries good luck thank you very much for your time appreciate points attention next we have k0a 146 365 one that address 137 western street you see applicants and where they represent the i joseph are you on exlok any raise your hand or representative from what do you seven women i know we checked in yesterday the picture oh the holland companies is that you yes it is oh okay one more sorry that they have got up hello um to master here for members um we're a little low you hear me now a little better with this uh we'll have one second it's not very distant hello for members and that check could you hear me now better i was there good thank you okay i apologize my name is joe holland i got part of my college instructor we go through building at 137 um western street this proposal is for a if you can scroll to page two for a re-election of street level um of this single family townhouse that we rebuilt and in addition if you can keep scrolling there's also a plan for a roof deck that was approved by self-hand landmarks the reason for the the reason for the rejection of a roof deck is because of uh the headhouses are excluded or prohibited in the self-hand so we require a hatch the rear deck is six feet off the building which is consistent with past precedent in the self-hand i don't really have any more add i'm open for questions yep um great any questions from the board here are none have public testimony i guess i'm good afternoon madam chair members of the board can crucially from the mayor's office of new rehab services uh if it's related to deferred to the board this time the applicant had no butters meeting in may where one of our butters attended with no question of concerns raised thank you thank you and mr. nilton uh i don't know if you got a record yeah thank you madam chair members and board we recommended approval on this it's already received landmarks uh approval so we don't need to do any design review with the courts he's thank you uh would that may have a motion make a motion uh oh that was second okay mr. stembridge uh yes mr. shepard yes mr. valencia yes this better brazo yes this we know yes mr. langum yes chair also votes yes motion carries good luck thank you madam chair thank you board the next case is b 08 145 five property that's way yeah we can and what they're rep but yes good morning how do chair members of the board uh Richard wins two forty five summer street he spots and an attorney on behalf of the petitioner uh and chair will briefly um this board may remember this case uh it was probably the first case i believe the board uh the new woolly cops do board bird back in January at that time uh the board had uh both denies matter with with present without prejudice um and the comments at the time by mr. berazza uh involve the setback of the building uh if we can scroll down a slight two just to give the board a little reminder the context of the surrounding neighborhood i sort of looking here's copper smithway which is um look here it just outside of barracks where it needs Boston uh the picture you see here show the surrounding buildings walk copper smithway all roughly four or five story buildings our proposal would be for a four story three year building which is actually allowed uh as a matter of right on this side of copper smith uh i think the use um the other side of copper smithway is actually in the waterfront commercial district which allows greater densities and heights up to 55 feet um if we wanted to scroll down a little bit further to the site plan i can talk a little bit about some of the changes uh that we made with respect to the area's current so uh our our site is the one sort of look at the middle of screen there um we originally proposed this uh it was pretty similar to the buildings around it where i occupied pretty much the entire the entire width of the lot uh as well as the depth uh i believed this better brazza had some concerns about our setback including the rear the structure we do see the rear of our building um that the that's outlined here it's actually a garage uh it's not a residential building i believe the owner of that property used on the call as well and this express subcortular revised proposal uh with respect to the building itself who has scrolled back a couple of slides we can look at the proposed red and red uh i want to go one forward please perfect uh so what we see here is the force the force story building with the proposed roof deck and again pretty consistent with the surrounding context um for our smithway uh and i believe it was also consistent with uh the efforts for planning spots of the rezoning uh for this neighborhood with the increased types of densities um the lower two levels at the first and second floor i would be studio side units the first level being uh handy had adaptable so persons requiring accessibility would have uh the ability to purchase that unit the upper two floors constitute one unit to buy the level unit to that room a little over a thousand fifty five square feet respect the relief that the required uh because this is in a three-family uh zoning district uh three units are permitted so no no relief necessary for that our lot sizes uh just under a thousand square feet and therefore would require relief for the minimum lot size again this was quite consistent with the adjoining lots along with that section of popper smithway and around litter cool and uh the other streets as you can see here from the map uh with respect to the front edge we do have sufficient front edge unlock with at 27 feet 20 feet is the uh requirement uh we have increased our set of acts so the minimum set of act requirements for the district is two and a half feet and the side yards we are showing at a 2.75 on the left and a little of a 4.2 feet on the right the right side of the building allows for the openings uh on the state building comes we are eight from culprits and windows which we weren't able to do before with respect to the rear yard because this is a shallow lot condition out of a 50-street allows for a reduction rear requirement it's typical and the three have two thousand district so in this case um the only requirement would be about ten foot set act we're actually uh four feet which is increased from the original proposal so we do require relief for that but as I pointed out the structure is around the behind us is a garage so our proximity that building uh shouldn't have much of the impact on that about a flat leaner our flitter ratio uh we were originally about to be 0.13 uh the change in the building we made had dropped this down to 2.67 uh so we still require marines for it but it again it's pretty consistent with what we see along Congressman Way in the surrounding neighborhood uh the hydra building is at 43 feet 10 inches uh that's a four-story building 35 feet is the maximum uh as I mentioned directly across the street the zoning district allows for heights up to 55 feet and you do have a photo I earlier showing some of the taller buildings and the immediate and immediate neighborhood uh we've reached actually a number of spaces that require parking the zoning code requires we have one parking space pretty unit uh the site is pretty tight for parking um we did have conversations about uh incorporating parking at the lower level um you know the the preference to have a adaptable accessible unit appeared to be much more favorable for surrounding neighbors and that's one of the reasons we had stuck with the habitable space at the lower level um we also I believe this is also a g-com I know we've provided the appropriate no harm uh and report from the Boston Law and Historic Commission uh I will pause there to answer any questions by the way thank you any questions from the board um no no no question I just wanted to acknowledge that um the the setbacks are has approved significantly um when we did not it without prejudice it was literally landlock and almost up to the lot line to this this um you guys did a really good job with providing some psychiatric relief thank you thank you any other questions or comments from the board with that may I have public testimony yes madam chair members of the board were caught on human with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time the mayor's office like deferred to the judgment of this board some background information on the community process on us hosting a butters meeting for this project on March 23rd 2023 uh two of butters joined the meeting with both uh vocalized support for the project the applicant then went on to meet the maverick central neighborhood association in march in July of 2022 um sorry i'm not sure if that's correct there but the association voting favor of the project uh at this time our office is unaware of any concerns thank you you madam chair members of the void christian seminali boss and grower trust and we have both letters from the applicant thank you thank you Michael you're looking to get this money are you answer what's out of that i have no additional waste hints good morning madam chair member so the board my name is evasion parra and the east boston leason for city council grab back collet um based on community support and the support from mcna the council why can you get more of this project as well thank you can you're here good yeah i'm still under what are you uh are you getting testimony on this okay i'm not with this no race dance i'm just not moving mr underwood are you here to speak on two copper rights are you having yes can you have me please yes we can hello can you can you have me miss my underweigh we can hear you are you here to get testimony on two copper snowflake yes can you can you can you have me we can hear my name is my gal underwood i am in a butter i live that 78 liverhole street and i i am i would like the boy to reject it okay you can't have me okay thank you i'd like you to the boy to reject this proposal based on the fact that there is no parking it's a very tight lane very densely packed excessively i building on such a small lot the street is lined with trash barrels limited access for fire and i respect for you ask the board to reject this plan as it is thank you thank you any other race times just come are you looking to get testimony here so can you state your name and add just for the work it and briefly tell us here in support of opposition hi shan hi my name is shan sorry you know i i live in 52 liverhole street and i'm in full support of this project i think the area could use a lot more housing in the area and it seems like the developer what i'm is a way to accommodate for that thank you thank you no additional race times hey um kind of chairs usually yes i believe the bpda and this all side of recommendation i'm not sure if this thing happens available thank you madam chair members of the board we've recommended a approval with this i review i gave it a context i know it's a lot of new buildings up in the area so we would just ask that we can decide really want thank you thank you i'm too additional hands are just popped up can i move forward with over sure okay thank you look can you say to me and i just for the record briefly tell us if you're in support of opposition luke board i'm at 28 maverick street and i am in full support with the project i'm Brian H hi my name can you hear me yes yes my name is Brian maia i live right in the area 30 maverick street my family wants to drive behind it and numbing full support of this uh jose been great he's reached out all the Toronto residents and he's really stayed on top of it and he's formed up so nothing's caught a spice for high i think um the added units will definitely help these we need housing in the area as well so i think that would be these are good and there would be nice to see that what building it would be great for the neighborhood okay thank you bye i have no additional ways to handle thank you with that may i have a motion i like i made the motion to approve with bpda design review i think this project fits in nicely the overall bulk and massing scenes consistent with the neighborhood and i'm happy to see another unit instead of parking may i have a second second mr. femberidge yes mr. shepherd yes mr. valencia yes mr. brazo yes miss umo yes mr. langham yes ma'am chair also votes yes motion carries thank you thank you very much at this time madam chair um don't behead to be eleven of walk uh hearing and ask if there are any request for withdrawal or withdrawal the time what all right hearing none shall we go back we will go back to the last couple of days 930 to conquer uh this one is case b o a 146 3869 with an address of 100 Swiss street is the applicant and with your represent president thank you raise hands here um molly o' gale like either one of you wanting for this hearing yes okay go ahead um there is no um allowance for billboards of the side she's the applicant is the applicant all oh oh no i'm saying no sorry molly are you applicants okay can you introduce yourself and address in a democracy proposal the first priority credit union located at 100 Swiss street east-bost and mass 0-2 like two weeks um we are proposing to have as you can see in the right ring um so to be close by then um posted on the corner of any tin and switch street and and look forward to your thoughts so where we see this picture first priority that's where you want to put your billboard is that correct correct okay okay what's your distance from that billboard that's on that highway um what's the distance from the building itself or if i don't know from that signage since uh the outdoor outdoor advertising board has regulations about distance between the boards um uh the asking the lawyer to speak on that question from me i don't think this Miller is uh on your team are they all i apologize i'm sorry um mr. tevonan my representative is mr. charlie tevonan i know that he's on on this call as well as i do not have the exact to measure from where that would be located i had a jade's Jessica is he a panelist or can you make him a panelist okay there we go and you answer that question mr. tevon thank you are there are there are there are other questions from the board while we wait i apologize i'm not a check of warning back you like just been elevated uh to be able to speak and on behalf of the first priority credit unit i just like to clarify this is a modest six foot by eight foot sign at the corner of banyton street and swift street and uh it's it's not subject to reviewed by the outdoor advertising board it's uh it is forbidden in an able to shop and district but this um particular sign would be a positive addition to to this uh area which was improved by the first priority credit unit when this constructed over 10 years ago we uh notified all immediate uponters and received positive responses the credit unit and um we would ask that the board approved this modest request and i do want to distinguish it it's definitely not uh subject to any overview by the outdoor advertising board got it so to confirm sorry it wasn't clear originally so to confirm this isn't a billboard per se this is signage for first priority it's not rotating ads that's correct and it's uh six feet by eight feet an average billboard would be 40 40 feet by 20 feet so this is a very small and modest uh on-premise sign with the first priority logo can pass a further question um chair um can you please let us know uh what is the reasoning for it uh the the rationale was to increase the visibility for the first priority credit unit on the on the corner that uh it could use additional uh visibility okay and then uh I would like to hear Jeff Hampton in regards to um in in terms of reflections in regards to be in a modest modest modest freestanding on with an existing site it's uh location um we need a run of heard fruits and out without prejudice uh because if you go out to that site right now it was good there is a good visibility on that corner uh uh that we feel that you know not only as a forbidden use but that's obligation put inside and so we're on record uh uh it's an out of without prejudice Mr. Hampton I'm sorry what I couldn't quite catch what's the reasoning for the location being a challenge to you it's just he said it's okay it's on the corner right now it's like corner traffic visibility okay it's right there and right now it's right over whether there's near there's a site okay but that ain't it putting a new sign uh it's going to be bad what was that okay thank you any other questions from the board but I respond madam chair uh yes you have this uh reviewed by the BPDTA I was not aware that it was a recommendation for denial without prejudice but uh I the my understanding was that the request would have been otherwise granted if it wasn't a uh in a forbidden zone in it and even thought this is a neighborhood shopping district this is pretty much the only business that uh that's it's nearby I suspect that the reason for it being forbidden has more to do with the location near near a major roadway elevated roadway and to dissuade outdoor advertising off-premise outdoor advertising the visa via a billboard and this is not a billboard I think this is a modest request to assist the first part of the credit union to serve its members and to expand and it's a it's a small relatively small um credit unit and uh we asked the board approve thank you madam chair but could I ask a question yes please can the applicant confirm how many signs they currently have on their building advertising the name of the business if you could I do believe the rendering um on the there there is um Katie there is a large sign right at the rear of that corner this this is first priority so the Jeff is correct and that their signage is there is a tree canopy that you know conflicts a little bit um but they do have adequate signage on that corner at the building yeah i believe they have two signs one on swift and one on um i think the i'm not sure if the other street is best wanted to make sure i wasn't missing any if the ambassador could scroll down again to the last page where the birds out of each uh the second last the one above like there you can see the um the expressway that's the that's there this is mainly residential in nature except for the first priority correct credit unit and i again my view isn't isn't that uh is that the rationale for this underlying zoning is to discuss for this to be neighborhood shopping it isn't in the usual sense of the neighborhood shopping district that uh you would walk in which you know it's tell the schools it's not a village it's right locating next to the expressway but there isn't much visibility on the corner of Bennington the the sign that is facing facing lift street uh we're seeking to help uh increase visibility facing Bennington street thank you um may i take public custody on him yes madam chair members of the board we call our newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services the standard mayor's office is deferred to the judgment of this board we had the applicant uh flyer butters 300 feet um in our leaves aren't you sure from one resident called in to express concerns that the sign might lead to crack um other than that no other concerns we're with our liaison i with that will defer to the board thank you thank you but i'm trying to see no additional hands raise at the moment the morning madam chair members of the board is a bachelor's and father and conserved collaters office a in conversation with highway unit we're an association the developer has not gone before their board and for a support and a will like to take a look at the proposal before and in most forward with the zba thank you so much thank you and good i'll tell you um i'm sorry about gale are you looking to get testimony here um yes uh yes um well i'm kind of one of the proponents or or at not more than actually opponent of large billboards while this is not the same size of a billboard that you would actually see along the highway it is quite large and it looks like this this drawing minimizes the appearance of what it will be eight feet because eight feet it's still quite large and so is six feet so six feet on that residential street um you're just having a lot of units like that quick i think they're mandated if i'm not mistaken to put some commercial application down below um it it's property there i think it's six units that are going up six or nine i forget but it's for for all in terms of purposes it's a very large weight something that is on that through way so and yes it is very close to the highway so i do probably probably under 200 and that it probably isn't subject to the same outdoor advertising board rules and give this meller do you want to address if you want to address any of those issues mr. Femme before we can yes um please we forgot to the community crosses on unfair uh we uh we absolutely were willing to meet with we made good association uh and we have a lot of um on navel services representative to uh determine whether we need to do that or not and enable with services representative uh determine that even then it was a small modest request that just above through flyer and notify all media providers uh several of whom uh Molly will welcome the committee uh on the credit and you can attest in in support of this uh request but we certainly wouldn't have met with new uh with that may i have a motion okay have you ever been make a motion to deny without prejudice i don't believe a hardship has been that they have multiple signs on their property on the building there's a directional sign at the entrance to the driveway advertising the name of the business so i don't believe they need a possible fourth sign thank you now second and mr. Stembridge yes mr. Shepard yes mr. Valencia yes mr. Berraza no miss we well yes mr. Langham yes mr. Langham with us yes yes uh the chair votes no but the motion carries next case thank you next case is Vioe 25 9 1 yeah being 770 galvan boulevard the applicant and what they're representing in front hi there i'm moun chair through you to the members thank you so much for the time today i'm Jay Yomens with bullfinched strategy group uh representing the applicant at 770 galvan boulevard um as cannabis uh uses of forbidden use uh we have gone through the Boston canvas board process um what were were unanimously approved by the bcb and have entered a host community agreement for the location uh we are now before you seeking um a use variance um and i'm joined today um by richi parsons uh who's a long time resident of this neighborhood and who will be uh both they part owner and retail manager of the proposed application um jesica i don't know if it would be possible for me to share just a brief presentation for richi no we just have we have to refer to the slides that are on yeah okay okay i'm gonna turn it over to richi thank you hi good afternoon thank you uh i'm richi parsons my families lived in Adams village in doochesta since 1916 i'm one of the co-founders and as jesat i'll be the general manager of the proposed 770 galvan boulevard uh if we have slides i guess the next slide uh we are highly experienced retail team committed to compliance and community i was a retail manager and district manager for newbury comics for 33 years and i currently manage a successful medical marijuana dispensary in need of for the past five years one i might add with the perfect compliance record michelle foley who joins me today as our co-founder and operations manager michelle is successfully run multiple well-established and professional pianos and other retail locations in and around boston and also has an impeccable record for safety and compliance our team is successfully managed five cannabis retail facilities and Massachusetts with locations in boston Cambridge, needham, watertown and some of them and michelle hired me in needham five years ago i'm really proud of the dispensary's perfect incident free track record our relationship with needham law enforcement and the community as well as our setting and maintaining the gold standard of compliance with the ccc in fact the ccc is often used the needham facility as training for newer inspectors as a model of a tight ship uh next slide if we're going that way just a little bit about me before i introduce it to michelle my family lived on most moreland street for a hundred years as i said 1916 to 2016 my dad worked at the supreme market when he was 18 and 1936 and he ran the ccd program at saint brendons for 25 years as a teenager i was reckoning philine's basement and i wrote a song for my band called no surfing in bochesta bay which became through uh known throughout the neighborhood and that's where we get our name surfs up cannabis i just want you to understand how much i care about this community and to demonstrate to you and the public listening in how dedicated our team is to making this location the best retail experience the community could hope for in this neighborhood we've done the work in the outreach to make this possible i spent every weekend for months getting into the community meeting people knocking on doors responding to people's questions and concerns uh with that we've resupport received support from the cd grove civic association with a 61% in favor of the project a letter of support from district council of frank baker and more than 60 residents and neighbors throughout the neighborhood including one of the site's direct buttercks uh with that i'll turn it over to michelle thank you rt some highlights of seven seventy gala in boehaw the site is an existing high volume commercially-zoned retail location that previously hosted a busy horizon store as well as a regional uh COVID-19 testing site as you can see the site is adjacent to the concert circle with ample access to multi-modal public transit options the site is home to what we represent one of the largest availability of dedicated parking spaces for any cannabis establishment in boston the site directly abots another commercial retail tenant autosome the site has significant offering to the surrounding residential area which cannot be directly accessed off-gallot of our due to the one-way events from clover street this means there is no potential for the site to generate vehicular traffic in the residential neighborhood this proposal meets all citing requirements um there is an existing non-retail delivery only marijuana facility at eleven seventy more c-volved which is approximately three tenths of a mile away this is important as the general public regardless of ages prohibited from entering or otherwise accessing a delivery only facility it's also noteworthy that the firm is approved for delivery only and fenced to the boston handle for more sue age retail items i will not hold the seven b-borne c-volved art is separated from seven seventy gala in by core lanes of traffic pedal barriers the i-93 overcast as well as the uponcesterkel i don't really have an interior um side of the space but um the interior space is designed for maximum efficiency all product is kept in a secured limited access fault with no product on the sales floor except in lock display pieces um the average customer transaction time is about three to five minutes will be offering shoulder ahead online orderage as well as in-source self-served p-ass orderage uh both which decrease the average transaction time our security measures meet or exceed all standards for local banks and financial institutions this means that this facility will be one of the safest locations in your test deck you have extensive standard operating procedures in place around security presenting diversion and inventory controls that all of the staff are firmly trained on by your general manager which will be virgy and by myself um virgy and i run efficient retail stores and we're always implementing new software and new processes to further streamline our operations and as a result we're able to process customers quickly and maintain a safe and secure area in and around the dispensary um in addition to our well-trained staff the facility is monitored twenty four seven by cameras and alarms and access to all of our products is tightly controlled only certain employees have access to the secure fault uh road products are stored if there's repeating that under our management our store had zero incidents or theft diversion of public nuisance we will institute a strict zero tolerance policy no use of products on the premise for in the direct surrounding neighborhood no public nuisance security we also have so discretion to refuse access to anyone to into the facility and any person violating these regulations or disrespecting our community will be permanently banned from the facility and with that i will turn it back to it hi closing i'd like to thank you for the privilege of being here today uh this is personal we take it seriously and if you give us the chance we won't let you or my door chest to community down thank you very much for your time madam chair just uh uh clarified members um again there are two uh two purposes for which we're before the board today again it's a change of occupancy to a forbidden use uh which is cannabis marijuana retailer as well as um as the zoning code um treats all cannabis licensees regardless whether it's a retail facility or not as the same for the purpose of a half mile buffer we do have a delivery only uh a proof site again um three three um point three miles from this site but again just want to remind the members that that that delivery only does not allow for any consumer or general public access it's it's merely a warehouse allowing for deliveries to happen um external to that site so um while the half mile buffer does apply um i don't think it applies in the way that perhaps it was uh thought about when the city council approved the half mile buffer so with that i i will turn it to you madam chair thank you thank you any questions from the board yes i have one question which time would operation what time would the stores be open so our store hours would be 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 10 a.m. to eight on Monday i would like to ask uh if you can tell us more about what are the community benefits that you are providing to a local community and abrid chicana um speak to that that was something that we worked very closely uh with the cedar Grove Association um we actually went before uh cedar Grove Civic Association i believe three times as well as work with the leadership team there between meetings in order to make sure that we set up a process that did benefit the community specifically we've committed to setting up a community advisory board to actually um distribute the funds so that we're not actually in the middle of kind of playing favorites if you will um i think that you see a lot of these um proposals will come in and in kind of use the money if you will to kind of get the support they need and i think we really wanted to come in and and dedicate money to what the community wants rather than what we think the community would want um to that richy can you maybe comment more on just the uh the community benefit package yeah um i apologize i have my notes in front of me but i believe it's um a hundred thousand uh for the starting after the first year for three years uh and as jay said it would be something that the community would decide on you know where the money goes sometimes uh you know charities and such might not want to be directly associated with uh you know a cannabis uh company but um we would leave that up to them yes it's a hundred ten thousand a year for five years there's a lot more to you uh do you have any earlier and i'll be a little case who seem Boston or in the Boston area i'm currently managing one uh in in need of i've been there for five years but to answer the question uh i think that you're asking no the this managed this team richie and michelle this would be their only um venture for which they would have a controlling interest um they have been associated with other ventures either as an employee or a minority partner but this will be their first time really uh going out on their own um and that's been made possible by their employment at other um dispensaries over the course of the last seven years thank you thank you any other questions from the board uh so thanks for answering that was going to be one of my questions in terms of equity partners um but you know to the there is no equity partner in this project uh i see a lot of parking spaces um what are you going to do with all those vacant spots so right now um the uh uh owner of the property um uh rents and we anticipate that we would continue to run 25 spaces to the niponsa valley health center um so currently employees like today employees are using those spaces um to park uh and then and then access the niponsa valley health center so that would continue uh we we expect that that would continue um additionally we uh dedicated to working with um these surrounding neighborhood particularly the resonances on minnow and clover um to use some of these spots during snow emergencies or snowstorms so there would be some access by immediate butters for their benefit um you know i know that um there continues to be a lot of concern about dedicated parking for these kinds of ventures and i think that on a positive side i think that this has more than ample parking i think it's something to continue to monitor as you know cannibal the cannabis industry um is becoming more saturated and so we're just not seeing the demands that i think was anticipated at the beginning of this um so i think that will be something that will continue to watch carefully um to make sure that we're not over um over relying on on on on parking um and using that parking uh for the community benefit i think where we can mr. gimiko uh yes madam chair members of the board of the makeup e-td i just have a question are these parking spaces are they going to be free to the ones that are using it meaning uh to the customers at the store no you said that it's so much like for the facility the medical facility and uh community in general uh you're not charging at all um i i you know i i am not the i don't represent the landlord directly i believe that there is an arrangement between the puns of valley health and uh the landlord um that probably has some monetary value attached to it um but in terms of the community direct community of butters and using these spaces during snow or other kind of um incidences that where that would be helpful uh benefit that that that is anticipated is not having any uh value attached to it other than uh you know the the value of uh working well with our our butters in our in our community so no money would be attached to that okay uh if the residue feed well that matter of chief even you know license from the boss of transportation department but if they're not charging anyone at all then uh you're okay thank you any other questions of the board uh yes i'm just fricking um my one question i saw on the chat are you exclusive the possibility of this off here at the shop well not that uh trigger any of the uh restrict uh any of the buffer restrictions within the zoning public no thank you thank you uh would that maybe open it to public customer yes madam chair members of the board who call on her newman with the mayor's office and neighborhood services this time the mayor's office is referring to the judgment as board some bad information on the community process uh off-signal group services held in a butters meeting on uh January 18th of 2023 there were several butters a residence i should say they vocalized their opposition to the proposal setting concerns uh with the proposal being across the street from the boat John Paul Park as well as concerns that they felt there were already a number of dispensaries in the door chest area as the applicant mentioned they met with the senior road civic and received their support they also were in communication with the Pope's Hill neighborhood association as well from what i understand um without what to refer to the judgment of the board thank you yeah hey hello i uh then how they're doing gender and the owner of top shelf cookies that have been in the neighborhood just about a half mile away from the proposed state um i've attended all the community meetings and really gotten to know which he and Michelle over this time as they've been proposing and bringing their ideas and listening to the neighborhood and as a business owner in the neighborhood i feel completely comfortable having them come in um and i also know that they're going to fit in with what the neighborhood wants to meet so uh i have been both supportive thank you okay um Stefan you're gonna get testimony here Stefan Graham sending our question to you okay we have some issues with him jumping on but i have no additional raised hands if he's all set okay can you have any other questions from the board i have a question and um does the boss and cannabis board um that provides the license are they regulating how many they're releasing her neighborhood so for example that one neighbor has not indeninated with cannabis retail yeah question directed to i guess have your salas or um can help just as uh if the cannabis board is regularly is anyone regulating how many license are being distributed according to the um the land occupied by each neighborhood that i'm 99% sure right now but i can follow up yes can if you can please follow up or ask the pda to provide kind of an analysis on that that would be now that we are on couple of years yeah approving them this would be a really good check-in okay thank you thank you Jessica is uh mr. Graham here to say on this project or yes can you hear me yes sir hi my name is Stephen Graham my love uh a salas rode about two blocks away from this size i've looked here for uh thirty seven years and i've lived in dachshund for almost 70 years just to put a little bit into context for the board 40 years ago i was president of the also neighborhood association and we would be in front of the board fighting near-and-wind localized this far dachshund area 40 years later that seems pretty silly this this uh we know richee and we know this site this site has been vacant now for many years and that's a terrible terrible thing the neighborhood and we believe this business not only would be acceptable it would probably be the safest neighborhood business in the area uh i personally strongly hope that this board approves this license thank you very much thank you thank you no additional raise hands thank you uh any any final comments or questions put okay without me having motion can do an mister shak Yes. Ms. Uro. Yes. Mr. Langen. No. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, members. Thank you. Thank you. Before we continue, before we head into the 11 a.m. period, I'll make a request for any request. Okay. Anything you want to add, Mr. Drago? Well, yeah. Again, just to go on the record, Attorney Jeff Drego with Drego and Tuscano, business address of 11 Big and Street. We are asking to withdraw the case at 58 Mertics Street so we can file a new case under two addresses. We have to make extensive changes during community process. So we will be back with a different case. Thank you, Mr. Drego. Will that be a motion? Make a motion to approve the withdrawal. Ma'am, a second. Hello. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Ms. Betapurazza. Yes. Ms. Wewoh. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Mr. Langen. Yes. Chair also wants to ask motion carries. Thank you very much, Port. With that, we will now return to and start with the 11 AM period. First case at POA 1174452 of the address of 15 to 222. 258. That is the width of the street. Is the applicant yet for your representative? How much go ahead, is that you? Can I meet you, so? I good morning, Madam Chair and members of board. My name is Mark Titanhofer. I'm the homeowner at 5052. I'm Mark Titanhofer, I'm the homeowner at 5052 Wettom Street, and I'm seeking relief from violation article 55, section 12, side yard vision. It can just, what are you proposing? The actual proposal is to the curb orches in desperate need of repair, and so the idea was to remove it and rebuild it in the same footprint but as an enclosed porch. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're calling our newman with the Mayor's Office and neighborhood services. At this time, the Mayor's Office looks to defer to the judgment of this board. Some back information in the community process are off as facilitated in a butters meeting on June 14th. We ended up receiving four letters of support from the butters, and the applicant went on to meet with the JPMC zoning committee, which I understand voted to support this proposal. That will refer to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise hands? So you have no additional raise hands, the raise hand is the applicant. Thank you. Would that, may I have a motion? Make a motion to approve. Second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Shepard. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Berraza. Yes. Mr. Wu-ho. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everyone. Next, we have case B08, 1446, 4287. The address of being 13, no, an avenue. And this is also a BPDAR, this is a BPDAR, 280 case. Is the applicant's and or the representative? Yes, Mr. Stembridge. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address, 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I represent Pity Realty Group, the owner and developer of the property. The first federalman from City Realty is here as is the NRT just from M. Barca Design, the project architect. The proposed project consists of a new five-story building to contain 52 residential apartment units, including nine affordable units in accordance with the city's inclusionary development policy, which is just over 17% affordability. 50 garage parking spaces will be provided as well as ample bicycle storage space as Mr. Stembridge indicated. This is an article 80 small project, which was approved by the BPDAR on March 16th of this year, after an eight month public review process. The 13-door Wood Street site is approximately 18,109 square feet, and is within a CC community commercial zoning sub-district situated on a block that lies between Marcy Boulevard due Websterly and the MBTA's red line right away due Easterly. The law is currently used for outdoor storage of rental vehicles. The stretch of the Wood Street is characterized by multiple uses and building typologies, including commercial storage facilities, construction, wood services, surface parking and storage as well as multiple scales of residential buildings and retail operations. Most recently, with respect to this board, several multi-family developments have been approved on both North Wood Street and Coleman Street, providing contextual and massing influences for the proposed project. The program of this building locates the lobby and additional amenity spaces, including bike storage on the ground floor, along the road street, the stillitated activate the street's cap. Ike has been located to the rear of the site away from the street, so it's not an impact for public ground. The site is located within a coastal flood resilience overlay district, and accordingly the building's ground floor has been raised all of five feet from existing grade and meet resiliency requirements. Comprehensive landscape plans have been developed for the project to navigate this brave change, including new street plantings and sidewalks along the road street. As I mentioned, the project will include 50 onsite, the right parking spaces, access via a garage entrance on the road street. The replacement of the current commercial use in its associated vehicular traffic will allow for the closure of approximately 34 feet of existing curved cut on North Wood Street, making for better and safer pedestrian environment, and also reducing the opportunity for vehicular pedestrian conflicts. The 52 residential apartments are to be located on the second-through-the floor, as well as additional amenity spaces, including a business room, a common room, and roof deck spacing, the deposit river, and Boston Harvard to the northeast. In addition to the common roof deck most of the units have been zined up by the outdoor space on in-step exterior balconies. Of the 52 units there will be 23 studio units averaging 580 square feet, 15 one-bedroom units averaging 775 square feet, and 14 two-bedroom units averaging 900 square feet. With respect to the zoning violation, project has decided to work. In sufficient off-street parking and the loading, we are at a daily one-to-one parking ratio, whereas over 70 spaces would be required by zoning. The BVDA's determined that the amount of provided parking is appropriate, and that is dedicated, loading dog for this entirely residential building is not necessary. The garage will employ an automated parking system, which creates a site is violation for parking size and maneuverability as all such systems do. The proposed floor area ratio of 2.63 exceeds the maximum of two for the zoning sub-district and the building height, which is just over 60 feet, exceeds the sub-district maximum of 45 feet. Again, the BVDA has determined that the project's density and height are appropriate of the site in line of the need to create new housing. There is a rear setback in sufficient sea, but I point out again that the site backed up to the MVDA's red line right of way and tracked that in light of this fact, various sound dampening construction techniques and methodologies will be employed, including possibly the use of metabacterials and resilient channels. Also, the residential use of the building begins, as I noted earlier, on the second floor, providing even more distance from the railbed. The multifamily residential use is conditional in this community commercial sub-district. But again, as I pointed out earlier, there is significant residential presence in the immediate area, including all property located directly across the Orwood Street from the site. Finally, the project is cited on the zoning refusal air being located within both the flood hazard district and sea broad in fully compliance with all flood-proving and resilient fee requirements, which was, of course, a requirement of the article 80 review and the approval process. We cannot pause and take any questions that members may have. Thank you, Mr. Marancy. Is there someone from a BPD who would like to weigh the project manager? Or Mr. Hampton? Hearing none, any questions from you? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I would like to ask you a question. I would like to ask you a question. It is indeed an accessible ramp right in front of Norwood Street leading to the main entry. I believe that's what it is, but it's not noticed. I'm just want confirmation. Yes. You're referring to the residential entry. Correct. I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I'm not saying that I are trying to remove my flu has had a problem lost at the age equal Pierrot 2 nd I want to cut it out and replace it MC 12 nd and then then end up會 A the degree of slow on the guy. No, I don't need that. I think that's what it is. It wasn't known I just wanted confirmation, but I believe it is an accessible grant. Thank you. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. Two questions. One of the questions that I missed and great to have the applicant of the units was I staying in the wrong. Unit County, yes, I can go over that again. Or the break down of the unit. So obviously, two there will be 23 studio units that they're averaging 580 square feet. If one knows a metro unit size for one bedroom is 625. So by studio standards, these are quite large. This team would be one bedroom unit, averaging 775 square feet. And 14 would be two bedroom units, averaging 975 square feet. All of the nine IVP units as a rental project, these would all be at 70% AMI. And there are two bedroom units, four one bedroom units and three studio units. Like, thank you, Greg. And our next question to Bob, question is, I'm selected a general contract to put this project and we're shooting a duration of time for construction for the project. To my knowledge, no general contract has been collected and I don't represent city realty, transactionally or in a general sense, but I'm unaware of any general contractor having been selected construction cycle. My clients are hoping for third quarter stars. So sometime in the fall this year, and anticipated construction timing would be approximately five or six quarters. They would be looking to finish up hopefully before this year 2025. Thank you very much. Any other questions from the board? Madam Chair, yes. One question and possible comment. First, the number of, I believe was stated the number of IVP units and what the AMI would be quite a little. Certainly. So as rental units, these would all be at 70% AMI with standards. There are nine identified IVP units. And what backup now to 70% affordability for the project. Thank you. And secondly, if Mr. Domingo is still with us, see he had some comments on the proposal. Yes, Madam Chair, I'm not sure the boy loved Domingo BTD. I would just want to make, I don't see the amount of spaces numbered in the stackers. I know there's a total number, but I don't know if there's going to be two or three. In other words, I'd like more detail on the setup of the stacker parking to make sure that it would work well. Thank you. Mr. Domingo, George Bracey, the page 20 of the plan's presentation, which is the ground floor plan shows detailed information on the garage and the parking systems. So there are four automated stackers of 14, 10, and 14 spaces. That is a total of 48 and the additional two spaces, are HP spaces, which are in the front of the building, adjacent to the bedroom. They're not shown on this particular page, but there is a ground floor page plan, which again, I believe might be H20 of the plan set. But it is full color plan and it comes just after the land state increase in rotation. Well, it's in this case, I'm sorry. Okay. Of this presentation. And to answer your question of, this is Dan Erteges with embark the architect. Sorry, I was just raised to panelists, but the stackers, the semi automated parking, the way they work is it will be a two level system. And a tandem configuration. So we have four separate systems. They each, as George had mentioned, a 14, 10, 10, and 14. So they would operate independently of each other, but provide parking for those designated totals to help with queuing and access. And again, the parking level is raised to meet the resiliency guidelines and there will not be a pit. So these would be two levels above grade for the parking. Well, there's no need for a vehicle to be moved for drivers to get out. They're all independently allowed to gain access in egress to the driveways, that what you're saying? Yes, this is a fully personalized system. So if you had a space here, not responsible for moving another vehicle, the system will do that for you. And it's all automated within the system. Okay, thank you. I'm sharing a question. I have actually two questions. The first one is the nine IDP units are all for 70% AMI. So what is the reason or what are the reasons that city reality is not providing IDP units for lower incomes for, let's say, 30%, 50%, 60% AMI? In the second one, second question is if you can tell us very quickly, if there are other community benefits that the project is allocated to a local community. Thank you. Yes, the IIT package was terminated conjunction with the Affordable Housing Division at the BBDA. 70% is standard. I understand the trust of the question, which is that you feel maybe that percentage should be different, but it is in fact, what we did work out with the Affordable Housing Division at the BBDA in terms of community benefits. There will be typical contributions such as to the Blue Bikes program. There will be approximately $55,000, which would be the year mark for sidewalks street and or public relevant improvements in the area. There is going to be a $10,000 donation to the Gavin Foundation, which would be directed for IIT House, which is a residential free facility for women who are in recovery in the George Esther neighborhood. My clients are also contributing $25,000 to another George Esther non-profit, also an amount of $30,700, which will be paid to the city's fund parks. And that will be used to fund efforts to maintain free space at Garby playground, which is in the area of the proposed project. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Here in Latin, and we have public testimony? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Ross Cochran, with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. The applicant has completed their community process enabling through the BBDA, given that this project was an article 80 project. As such, our office was not wired and hosting a buzz meeting over the project, but I know there were numerous community meetings held through the BBDA. I also know there was some concern brought up over ensuring this project in land-resilient and ensuring that this project continues that resiliency. There is no letter of support or opposition from local civic groups to my knowledge regarding the project. So at this time, our office would like to defer to the board. Judgement, thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I'm the PM for the project from the BBDA, and I will verify everything that the proponent representative George Orancy has stated, as far as the process, community benefits, and far process, but the builds of this building. Great. Anything else you want to add? No, that's it, ma'am. Thank you for your time. Okay. Just a couple of minutes. Yep, minor and then Andrew. Good morning, Madam Chair. We're most of the board of minor for raise per cent in the carbon density, only behalf of hundreds of over-bust and racism. So I want to go on for a further break. Andrew? Hi, Andrew Amherst. 385 in a punch it has. Life on resident, small business owner in the area. We want to support the project. We think it's a good project. We like the recovery aspect of it. We think it's good for the neighborhood. So we are in support. Thank you, Tommy. Just want to go with some good name and address. Well, just, I'm at 88 Middle Back app, also a property on West Moan Street, the door to us and prop, and the sponsor there. Just want to go on record of supporting the project. Thanks. I have no additional raising. Thank you. Without ma'am, a motion? Madam Chair, I'll put forward a motion of approval with the BPDA recommendations on the memorandum that includes nine IDP affordable units and the proposed community benefits. Thank you, ma'am. A second? Okay. Mr. Stambridge? Yeah. Mr. Shuffer? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Barbaza? Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Chair also votes yes motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have case VOA 136-3694. The address of 1246. The Rochester Avenue is the applicant and or their representative president. We have a raise here. Hillary, I'm going to make you a panelist. I want you to become a panelist. Can you unmute yourself? Just brief us how this will you know what we're going to do? We're on mute. Hello, this is actually, I know it says Hillary Shuffer, but this is Owen Thomas and the architect or the project and representing the owners. We are proposing, this is a small rear edition that we're proposing to the gas station at the five corners mini-mark. You can see the photos there on the bottom of the first page show the gas station. The middle photo shows the rear area that we're looking, we're proposing to do a single story edition. And then the aerial view shows where it is. It's a very, very, very beautiful view. It's a very unique, odd shaped lot. The relief that we're looking for is of rear yard setback. It's, as I said, it's kind of a funny lot and we were, it's a zero side yard setback and a 20 foot rear yard setback. But it's a kind of a unique situation here. But what we're proposing is a single story edition to the retail space. It would be the same height as the existing single story structure and just expand the retail space for more amenities of things like that. And then that's pretty much it. The site is surrounded by industrial kind of parking areas and obviously that intersection towards the front of the gas station. Um, happy to answer any, any questions you might have. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Okay, hearing none, can we take public testimony? Good evening. Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is the board. I'm Kevin Trin here from the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. We met, we met with that applicant on September 19, 2022. We received no concerns from the butters and the applicant also met with, meeting how South Southern Association and they were likely to support this project. At this point, our office would like to refer to the support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other raise hands? I have no additional raise hands. Thank you. Okay, would that may I have a motion? I'm sure I may have a motion for approval with the PDD edition review. Madam, a second. Second. Mr. Staffridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Beraza. Yes. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next we have case B O A 145 247 9. The address being 1 to 2. Thompson Square. Is the applicant and the way they are represented? Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney John Fulgini. On behalf of the applicant, with me is Gerald Sullivan. And was the team architect to block to the plans. So this is an article 80 project. It went through a 1 to 2. Thompson Square in Charlestown. The zoning here is neighborhood shopping. This project project is to change occupancy and extract the five-story addition to an existing building at 1 to 2. Thompson Square in Charlestown. The existing building is 26,973 square feet. The addition will be 23 934. It will have 9 residential units, retail, space, upstream parking, and the proposal went to a very long in detail design with EPDAs and M.R.X. as well as the Charlestown Preservation Society. The unit mix will be 3 3 bedrooms, 2,074 square feet on average, 62 bedrooms, 1,164 square feet on average. So in the violations, we have lost three parking, which is inaccurate. We satisfy that. Building Heights 35, we brought the building to match the existing building that's currently there, which is 67. Side yard south bag is 2 1 1st. And on one section, on a very corner, we're at 0. Move structure restriction because of doing work to the roof. And I stated this one to a historic nature of this building. So it was vetted extensively by EPDA landmarks, architects as well, see Charlestown Preservation. We had thought over five meetings with Charlestown Preservation, the project evolved due to their input. And we have agreed with Charlestown Preservation for a proviso that any work would not in any way demolish the existing manside roof, which we would request to be a proviso this morning. At this point, I'm going to turn it over to our architect, Gerald Sullivan, to lock you guys to the designs and we're hearing and answering any questions. But we appreciate your opportunity to present this morning. Is Gerald Sullivan and Bill Gates on the call? May have to be unmuted. But Gerald Sullivan, please. Let's see, there's a hand. Um, Jessica, I see a Aaron Stibbens from EPDA. Maybe she can speak while you're also looking for this other person. Aaron. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. My name is Aaron Stibbens and I'm a project assistant at the BPDI. The one two Thompson Square project went through a thorough article 80 small project review in 2021, which included input from other city agencies, including Basit landmarks, scholarship staff. I thought that beating was held virtually on March 31, 2021, which was advertised in the local newspaper and online and the project was approved by our board in June of 2021. Ever opponents have acknowledged that the sign review will continue upon CBA approval of the project. The project has the agency's full support to move forward. Thank you. That's a big arc. I just made you sent a request to make you a panelist in an UDG open. So kind of. Got me to hear me now. Yes. Okay, thank you. Sorry, thank you for meeting me there. So the intent of this project was to recognize the significance of this historic building and to put the addition as far as possible away from the building so that we are do not infringing on any of the historic nature of the building. As John mentioned earlier, we will, you know, accept the requirement to make sure that we do not disturb or demolish any of the existing mansard roof on the building. We are setting the building back. If you go to the other drawings there, you'll see that the building is set back to provide a little courtyard there outside of the Starbucks, which will be a public space in which people can, you know, get in both the Starbucks as well as the new building, which will have retail on the first floor. And we're also working with the BPD, MBTA in public works on design improvements to the public around the other project site, which includes relocation of an MBTA plus 92 staff from the South Side of Church Street to the front of lunch, two tons in square, including the installation of a 4 to 5 foot extension sidewalk, reinstating granic curves in every four updated ADA compliant, and also actually in access improvements including landscaping of the streetscape improvements in and around the project site. So we've, as Jerry stated, gone to a long process. We've worked extensively with the community, we've worked extensively with the BPD, design and directly through landmarks commission. But, but, Gene, can you just address, has this been through landmarks commission, have they approved it? What's the subject? That's a great question, Madam Chair. So we had a meeting early on with the landmarks commission, just to have them, that the project, and through the BPD design review, landmarks and BPD work hand in hand on design. So this has been reviewed by the landmark architects. The process is after today's zoning board of field meeting, if this is approved, we go back to landmarks to have them look at the design and make any changes that they feel are appropriate. The concern in the community with the respect to preserving the man-side roof of the existing building, and we worked again since either last night into this morning, reaching agreement with the child sound preservation side as well as with the district counselor on the preservation of that. So. Okay, well that will be useful to hear during public testimony, because we know. Yes. There's quite a number of letters and opposition, and they reference these things. Any other questions from the board? I have a question, Madam Chair. For the applicant, is this project under common ownership with the historic building? Are they sort of taken together? Are they separate? Can you speak to that? Yes, so they would be under common ownership. That's a good question. Initially, when this came before, years back, that building, when you're looking at this building to the left, was not owned by this proponent, however, that has changed and that it will be in common ownership. And so a lot of things have taught, or life safety issues and things like that, that were done as part of the architectural presentations for. Okay, thank you. We're welcome. Other questions from the board? With that, let's have public testimony. Thank you. Hi, Chair. This is the board, Stein Green. Demail's Office and Neighborhood Services. So some background has already touched on, but there wasn't an initial public meeting that was hosted by the BPDA in late March of 2021. There was CPPA approval. The first one before this DBA during the 2021 was denied. Since then, the proponents have worked with the Charles Cumber Preservation Society in the BPDA on the proposal. The Preservation Society since I last spoke to him this morning still objects to the variant stock or on the maximum building height allowed. A butter is remade aware of the project once more. It would be a flyer this April, April 2023. This office has received no letters in support. It has received eight side nine in opposition, including one from the CPS based on the maximum height variance. It is with that that we defer our judgment to the board. But I think that has changed now, Chair. So they can address that. If they're on, Chair. Yes, I'm helping. Mr. Farrah? We're winning that on Chair members of the board. Sebastian Farrah with Councillor Colleta. Councillor Colleta was able to speak with Amanda from Charles Cumber Preservation Society and with the attorney for this proposal. And they came to an agreement in which the developer will revise the plan. So no parts of the minister in roofland will be demolished. This is a win for preservation and council will like to go and support this project with this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Madame Ambassador. Madame Chair, move to the board. My name is Wille Park and proceed. We would like to go on, represent and support this project. Thank you. Mark, thank you for the question. I'm new. You go ahead. Good morning or good afternoon, really. My name is Mark Spavar and I live at 14th quarter street directly abutting the lot at the rear of one, two Thompson square. Well, I support the redevelopment of the lot in general. I object to the height of the proposed addition which would nearly double the permitted height in the neighborhood. The new 68th building would loom over my neighbor's homes blocking light and views. It's disappointing that the applicant has apparently not made any changes to the plans that were previously opposed by a butters and denied by the ZBA in 2021. Or if they have those changes haven't been shared with the community. And apparently the landmarks commission hasn't approved the design yet, although I understand based on discussions this morning that there's still ongoing discussion. Thank you. Thank you. That's kind of the other raised hands. Sorry, my excuse for getting a gift. Are you looking to give testimony here? I'm going to unmute you. Just make sure. You're looking to give testimony or you'll say. Is it a male or no? No, I'm not. Yeah, okay. No additional raised hands. Thank you. All right. Was that a man? Any other comments from the blood or the applicant before me? Think about it. I will just say one thing with respect to the butters on the side street. We had done shadow studies and showed them. They are. If you look at your tablets, they have extensive tree canopies that would prevent any sun in from our building blocking any sun that goes in there that otherwise wouldn't be blocked from the tree's subsets. Thank you. And I'm sorry, just really quick from the man's obstinate with services. Amanda Zell from the Charlestown Preservation Society did just let me know that they would withdraw our position if the design provides our states that no portion of the man to the roof line will be demolished, which I believe is cut stone early. Thank you, sir. With that may I have a motion? Madam Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with a provisor that the plans be submitted to the landmarks commission for design review and for the preservation of the mass average. Thank you. With that may I have a second? Yes. Dr. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Relencia. Yes. Mr. Metapraza. Yes. Ms. Wu-Long. Yes. Mr. Lai-Nam. Yes. Chair also votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you, everybody. Last case before break. Then I will get to case B.O.A. 144-932-4. Address of 203-Lexington Street. Is the applicant and will they represent the president? Sorry, I see a place to traverse that you hear to speak on this proposal. Yes. Yeah, you're a little low. Can you speak up? Can you hear me better now? Yes. Yes. Okay. Hello, Madame Chair and members of the board. My name is Travis Marx and along with my wife, Flora Wu-Zan, who's on the call. We are homeowners at 203-Lexington Street East Austin. We are looking to currently replace a window with a door as of, excuse me. As of right now, we would like this door to provide a means of egress to our third floor unit. There's currently a window that leads to an existing deck and we wish to replace this with a door. We purchased this property about 16 months ago as is and there was an existing kitchen, bathroom, and bedrooms and was being used as a three-family property. We would like to officially change that occupancy to a three-family dwelling with the addition of this egress. I had updated some of the rendering presentation but it doesn't seem to be showing up here. What we were showing was for the zoning we are in a three-family area and all of our neighbors next to us are also three-family dwellings. Some of them are actually at less square footage than us. Our property exists at 2500 square feet, whereas our neighbors through our three families are about 2000 square feet. I know this was a concern. Also, we have a plot plan amongst the material here that shows that a third of our property is reserved for yard and garden space. I hope this addresses some of the green space concerns. In addition to the concerns about the parking, we unfortunately cannot add parking but don't believe that there will be an impact here to the lower-bill area as again this was previously used as a three-family property before we purchased it. We're not adding any additional livable space or bedrooms or more people who would be driving. As my wife and I own our occupancy part is properly we hope to fully move into this unit on the third floor pending with the approval of this. I'd be happy to answer any questions if there are any. Question from the board. Hearing none can I take public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, Mayor's Office is deferred to the judgment of this board, some background facial in the community process. I want to associate and bother speaking to this project on April 18, 2023. I know a daughter is intended and we're unaware of any concerns at this time. Without a deferred to the board, thank you. Any other raised hands? Just come. No, no other raised hands, thank you. Thank you. Would that be a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion to approve. May I have a second? Second. Second. Second. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Shupper. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Peter Braza. Yes. Ms. Wewell. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Chair also votes yes, motion carries. Can we take a 15 minute break? Yes, thank you.