 Good evening. My name is Mark Ehrlich, the city of Boston's owning board of appeal subcommittee hearing for October 13th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature regarding virtual hearings. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings through March 2023. This hearing of the board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen, and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists, and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Penless are strongly encouraged to keep video on well presenting to the board. As with our in person meetings comments in support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows, elected officials representatives, so elected officials and members of the public. The chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment in the time for commenting as time constraints require. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand and button along the bottom of your screen in the zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hands should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes, and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon the comment will be asked to state their name and address first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. These instructions will repeat it throughout the hearing today's board can. If so I'm now going to take a roll call attendance of the board members. Mr. Fortune here. I'm Hamas chat. Is better bras are you here? President Mr. Chair. Nice to see you both. Mr. Fortune will now begin with a call of the list. Thank you, Mr. Chat. I'm going to call any deferrals or withdrawals for the five o'clock cases if you can give it the address first, please. Mr. Chair, the last case of the day for the rediscussion is being deferred until December 8th. So I'm going to make a motion for deferral. I'm going to call it into the record though. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to call the list of the four. I'm going to call the list of the four. The bill is being deferred until December 8th to the subcommittee at 5 p.m. Can I have a second? For us a second. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Is better brazo. Yes. And I concur the motion passes the item is deferred. This is the first case of the year. And I'm going to call the list of the four. The first case of the year. On the first case, on DOA, one, three, five, eight, eight, nine, six, sixteen, cook street. This is to confirm the office is a two family dwelling, complete demo and rehab to two residential units occupying three stories of existing residential structure. There will be two residential units when complete at the violations at equal 62, section 25. New York overcouping.ة think you Malice it seems to have been off air or ine. The guidance report or flay? Eddie couldn't hear ning that futhe one either. That's Robin ordinary want talk of, Bob Matsle کے since he's been off air and punching and drink to continue was fired to the point where he was on the street bringing old friends to work together with Mayor Allan, asks if you could銀 appointed be Wendy to the party as a partner is all I was on the application to to thex non мир I think she has been halfENTS of being ifland dis voud больше and us a regular fact with us will mention now in the process otherwise we're not relatively går. One issue would be how hiking It's part of a strip of three row houses. It's at the end. And all these row houses have existing dormers. We are proposing to increase the size of our front dorm. So instead of having at the top left corner as it is right now, it would stretch across most of the front of the house. And then in addition to that, we are proposing to add a rear dormer. If you look at these photos, you'll see, especially on the last page, that the house next door already has in filled the space between its two corner dormers into one long dormer. And what we're doing is proposing much the same thing. So we're looking at 16 cook as our property and then to the left of this hot left photo that you're looking there. We see that 14 cook already has stretched its dormer. And so if you look at our top right image there, that's what we're proposing. So what we're trying to propose architecturally is very much in context with the nature of Charlestown architecture. I lived in Charlestown for six years. And keeping the language of traditional clapper and trim. So on the rear, we're proposing much the same at the bottom right hand corner. You can see in the middle and then the left of the bottom. You can see the neighbor at 14 has a dormer back there as well. And what we're looking to do is add a shed roofed dormer. As you can see on the bottom right across the back of our space. And part of what we're trying to do here is make the existing two earth floor bedrooms. And so this is the same as the other one. So we're trying to make sure we have a code in terms of adding or providing enough natural light per the state sanitary code and making sure we have sufficient emergency escape and rescue openings for those existing values. So Mr. Rubinoff, the it is currently listed as a two family that is house registered. Yeah, the the. So why is there a need to confirm our occupancies and two family dwelling. I'm not entirely sure. I'm not sure if I SD did not have that entirely in their record or not. Sometimes the assessor seems to have different records than ISD. Okay. And as far as the additions. So two questions with respect to the height. The expanded dormer is at the same height as the existing dormer and number two is at the same height as the neighboring and budding dormer. I believe so. Yes, the answer is yes. Okay, so there's so there's no change, no change in the peak of the building and it is consistent with the budding building. And it's within the allowable height as well. Yeah, okay. Our only violation is for roof structure restrictions. Right. Mr. Baraza, how are the drawings? Mr. Chair, the drawings are adequate. Any questions for you? No, I just noticed that in the front elevations, you remove the shutters. And you are including a silate at the dormer at the top. Is that correct? Yes, we have three windows that are proposed in the dormer on each side. And we've included shutters in the drawing on the top right hand corner for the third floor. We did take them off below. That's something we could work out further in the BPD design review. If you if the board desires. Okay, great. Thank you. Sure. Okay. Is there anyone here to speak in favor or in opposition to this proposal? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, a corner, anyone with the mayor's office neighborhood services? This time the mayor's office is like to defer to the judgment of the board. Some background information in the community process. We have had some turnover with personnel. We're going to stand in a buttercream was held in August. Since then, we've had one resident reach out to vocalize their opposition to the project. There was some concerns with some work that was being done by a contractor on the area. With possible some damage to a house was alleged. I think that's what we're all looking for. So I think we have to go through all the exciting information that we have at this time without we defer to the board. Thank you. So, was that opposition based on the activities of the contractor and the concept that was being proposed? I think it's both. I think there were some concerns they weren't they didn't feel it was always historically a two family, although I did check the assessing records. I believe it was in mid 2000s that it was switched over was classified as a two family according to the city records there. So, Mr. Chair secretary here we do have one letter of opposition and it's from 14. It's from what 14 next door. Okay, and what's the opposition based on? They're opposed to the project with the dorm is and obviously they're losing some life. Okay, anybody else here to testify? Mr. Chair, do you have a raise? Paul, go ahead. Can you state your name and full address for the record please? Yes, Paul Hauline, two chief street child somehow. So, Mr. Early, the reason why it's being asked about. It's a single family and only has one and only has one. One, you know, electrical, you know, electrical outside. I've been in that house a hundred times. Okay, it's a one family in 2003. Pat uses daughter had a baby so they put it they put an extra kitchen. I can put five kitchens in it. She's know that right? And I but but when you go to sell it, the problem is is this the second person that's bought this house. I'm very disappointed by the way on the mayor's office just telling us that they're going to go with you guys. I can't believe that after I had talked to them about this, but it's okay. We'll deal with that at a different time. I mean, 60, 16 cook street. Can you believe this gentleman's that he's got a row house at three row house. And yet he doesn't have a sprinkler system in there. But yet 14 cook that's doing this over has a sprinkler system. Wow, there's a lot, a lot of there's a lot of stuff going on here that I can't believe that. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. We appreciate your comments. Is there anybody else hold on anybody else. I have no additional ways. The moment. All right. I quickly missed a move enough. Yeah, I'll just point out that the zone is for three families zone. The sub district and what we're proposing here is the two families. So there's no violation for use. And so it's the building code and sprinklers were not required to put in sprinklers for the building code. We have to means of egress or both units. Yeah, no, no, no, no, where where where that we understand that the one has come before us is a roof roof structure restriction. And that's the only violation that that applies to this board decision making. Thank you. Okay. If there's nobody else to testify, can I have an auction, please. Mr. Chair, I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPD a design review paying special attention to that top former. And on the extra elevation to be consistent with this fabric. That's second that motion. Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Buraza. Yes. And I truly am in favor of the motion passes. Thank you. Calling an SDK's calling the OA134 9606417 to 423 C West Broadway. This is sweet 406 to change of office to professional office at petition door sinks and cabinets, the violations article 68, section seven. Use and regulations, the professional office above ground floor is the name and address for the record please. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Doug Steffenov architect at a professional address and 423 West Broadway sweet 404. My neighbor future potential neighbor sweet 406 comes before you tonight to ask your relief to place a professional office in an upper floor on this building on Broadway. It's a kind of a mixed use building. We have more office uses health beauty and in this case, this is a Botox facility, which comes underneath professional office designation, which would under our zoning code be considered forbidden in this upper floor. Actually, even lower professional office would be allowed based in first floor only. So that is the only reason we come before you. Okay, what it was, it has been functioning as an office but not a professional office what has been the. It actually was a professional office beforehand, but as you know that approval goes with the owner and they moved out and we'd like to do a little construction. Okay, so was a professional office before you want to be a professional office now. And there will be a certain amount of interior renovation. Correct, I'm thanks and some cabinets and chairs. It seems pretty straightforward. Ms. Baraza, how are the drawings trying to adequate. Okay, turn anyone here to testify either for against the proposal. I'm going to ask you to name Mr. Chair members of the board and an away with the mayor's office of neighborhood services. Oh, and us required this proponent to fly our 300 feet around this property, notifying residents and abouters about this change of use. We received no questions or comments about this proposal at this time would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Chair, I have no waste hands at the moment. I'm going to ask you a question for the for Mr. Stefanoff. So this is this is on the fourth floor of a multi story building. How big is the building. My guess it's about 25,000 square feet. It's a good size building. Okay, all right. Can I have a motion, please? Mr. Chair, I'd like to put floor of motion of approval. Thank you for this applicant only. For this applicant only sure. Okay, and Mr. Fortune, second. Yes, Mr. Fortune. Yes, Mr. Baraza. Yes. And I agree also the motion passes. Thank you all very much. Calling the next case, calling the LA126 8377594 E7 street. This is a change of art from a single family to a two family. This is spinach and a root additional partition and finish and off of the basement the violations article 68 section 33, Austrian parking is insufficient and Article 68 section 8.4 dimensional regulations the extension into the rear yard b取. Attorney John D. Barry, law office at 1156, Dorchester Ave, and Boston, Massachusetts 02125. With me on this proposal is architect Nicholas Landry, a design resource team within the office of professional address of 546 East Broadway Street. What's being presented tonight is there's actually companion projects, both at 594 and 596. I can present each individually or both of them together, whichever. So we want to present the half Mr. four minutes before the other one into the record. OK, they were not together. That's why I was looking at two different applicants. That's why let's see what as a companion in cases. All right. Will the wrecking calling D.O.A. 1337665, 5967 Street? This is also confirmed. Arches the single family dwelling, came to Valkyrie from a single family to a two family dwelling. Work to include constructive rear addition, extend living space to the basement and renovation of the building, the violation of Article 68, Section 33, Oskrey Parkings and sufficient, Article 68, Section 8, the additional lot areas and sufficient, and Article 68, Section 8.4, dimension regulations, extension to the rear yard. Again, we share in members of the board of Attorney John Barry, law office at 1156, Dorchester Ave, Boston, Massachusetts 02125. And with me on this proposal as well as our technical assembly of design resource team at 546 East Broadway 02127, what's being proposed here at both sites is a addition in the rear as well as finishing off the basement, which would result in two by-level units at each address, changing them from a single family occupancy to a two family occupancy. Our clients on this project is the Macdonough family. It is an owner occupied, both units are owner occupied by the family. Essentially, what's being proposed here is the two by-level units, the first unit one will be the first floor and the basement with the addition that's being proposed. It would be a resulting 2600 square foot, four bedroom, four bath unit for unit number one, and it would be a 2662 square foot, four bedroom, three and a half bath for unit two, which would be on the second and third floor if the proposal was approved. In addressing the violations, both have Austria parking and dimensionality, the rear yard variance that's needing to be requested under article 68, section 8.4. In addition, 596 received the additional lot area insufficient violation. There is a plan right now for the current developers to add parking in the rear. We did not put that in the presentation because it still does not meet the requirement of four spots for each of the proposed units. We'd just like to highlight that for the board, though, that there is a plan in easements that the owners do have in order to provide parking by accessing the site from the rear. But it is not all recorded. And I think that should be addressed during the BPA process. If this board was to approve these presentations, with me on this project is architect Nicholas Landry, if the board would like to have a full presentation of the drawings. No, just to answer some questions. The parking, we can only deal with what's presented to us. So if you have no parking, you have no parking. Whatever you do in the future is another matter. So let's talk about the extending living space into the basement. A couple of questions. This is actually a good elevation. What is the floor to ceiling height in the basement? What is the floor to grade height in the basement? How much of this basement unit will be underground? And what is based on the plans? What is the use of the space in the basement? The space in the basement is going to be a common is living space. The basement is roughly 4 feet below grade. So it's about 50%. And then you can see there's a rear. We've got a large patio area to bring a lot of light in the back of the building. So there will be bedrooms down there. OK, 4 feet. So it's 4 feet below grade. What's the ceiling height? It's just going to end up being about 8 feet, 8.6 when we're done. I think this drawing might show a little bit less than that. But so it'll end up being about 50, 50. OK. Yeah, the drawing shows 7, 4. Yeah, I think 7, 4. So I think we're going to be closer to 8 feet. How are you going to do that by excavating? Yeah. Well, then you'll be able further. Yeah, so I guess it'll be more like 60, 40. Yeah. OK, well, that's. 60% underground. Yeah. But underground, yeah. That's a problem in terms of the bedroom. So my perspective. Just for confirmation, there's two bedrooms on the first floor and then there's three bedrooms in the basement unit. It weren't worked on both units. Sorry, go ahead. No, Ms. Marazi on both units. That's what I'm talking about. Right? Right. There's parallel. They're similar. So I'm just confirming that that's the intention to have three bedrooms in a basement and two bedrooms on the first floor. That's where we're at right now. I think if we need to keep that ceiling height at 7.6 to keep it so that it's 50.50, I think we can do that. If that way. I mean, 7.6 would be code. But it's still, that's still, 4 feet is not exactly 50.50 with 7.6, but more like 55, 45 without having a calculator in front of me. There's also the BPDA commented, Ms. Marazi, that they're concerned about the lack of windows on the West elevation. And then the correct. So for both projects, it would be the side elevations that does not mean share by the party wall. There's very little windows. And is that so? So one of them is, one of them is on the property line, which is why we don't have windows there. We could put some windows on the 5.96 on the other project, on the office of this project. But this one is the path. So hang on, hang on, hang on, rather than design on the fly, which I don't like doing. Let's say, Ms. Marazi, that's a way in on the overall scheme. Yeah, so as we noted in the past, the board traditionally has not really granted variance to bedroom units that is completely submerged. That being said, it does have to means of egress. And you're not really required to meet within the 44-inch sil-hite. So it's fine. It's more if we're OK with having bedroom units underground. Right. And what do you think about the issue of the windows? I think this is really just allowing Layton Air from both ends of the building. It's a very long building. So there is a concern with lack of Layton Air in the middle of the unit. I don't necessarily see that the elevations are on a property line just from the site plan. It does look like you're probably five feet from the property line. The elevations just is very minimum in terms of the windows. I think I found maybe one or two. So there would need to be BPA design review to add additional windows on the site elevation. OK. We're happy we can do that. OK. Well, well, well, well, well, this is the conversation the board is having. Hang on. All right. Any other commentary, Ms. Beraza? That's basically my comment. All right. Is there anyone here to testify for against the proposal? Good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board. I'm Anna White with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. Oh, and else held in a butters meeting for 594, 596, E7 Street on August 3rd. The proponent listened to all questions and comments from attendees. There were concerns raised about parking. We've received letters of support and letters in opposition about this proposal. The gate of having neighborhood association is in support of the proposed development. At this time, we'd like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we have those. Mr. Secretary, I messed up. Mr. Chair, we have those letters at the Mayor's Office of the Spokane. OK. Forgive me, Mr. Chair. I have no raised hands. No raised hands. All right. Well, I am quite concerned about the better units in the basement. I think there will be more than 50% underground. And I don't think that's a consistent with the policies of this board over the many years. But I would entertain a motion at this point. I'll look at the floor. OK. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I'll quick pause obviously, Councillor Elisabeth McFlarry. Understanding your concern with the basement unit, Councillor Cullen records. What? Thank you. If I could do that, just that. I believe that Councillor Flynn also said, didn't allow that. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, we're taking either someone giving public testimony at this point or someone on the board making motion. Would you like a motion, Mr. Chair? Yes. Yes. OK. I'd like to put forward a motion of approval with BPDA design review paying special attention to the front and side elevation. I'll second that motion. Ms. Baraz, are you interested in anything about bedrooms in the basement? I think it's not really great living conditions. But it does have two means of egress. I think there is sufficient access to the exterior. So I'm OK in this case. OK. All right. Well, well, well, OK. And it's about 50-50. So if it was only one means of egress, it would be different. And it's less than 50-50. But anyway, you made a motion, Mr. Fortune. We did second it, yes. And so I'm called doing a roll call. Yes. Ms. Baraza. Yes. And I will vote against that. So the motion does not pass. So I will entertain another motion. I'd like to put forward a motion to proviso. One is BPDA design review on the front and side elevations in terms of adding additional windows on the side elevation. And the second proviso is to remove the bedroom units in the basement floor. House of second-hand motion as well. All right. Roll call, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Ms. Baraza. Yes. And I to agree the motion passes for those provisos. Ms. Baraza, Ms. Tom, was that to remove? Is it just the bedrooms in the basement? Did they keep like living space down there? Yeah, they can leave the living spaces. It can reshuffle whatever, but not have habitable bedrooms in the basement. OK. Thank you. Following your next case, calling the OA137022025, Brook Avenue. This is a curb cut for one vehicle, off-street parking space, the violation is atical 50 section 29, usable open spaces and sufficient name and address for the record place. Is Mr. Lobson and Tony Lopes? I see him. He's up there. Is he on here? Yes. On the panel? Yeah. Tony, are you out of the office? Can you hear me? Yeah, we can hear you now. Yeah, I can't see anybody. You'll hear anybody. Yeah, I'm trying to do is get a name and address for the record please. My name is Antonio Lopes, 25 Brook Avenue, Roxburg, you master 2-02119. OK, please tell us what your proposal is. My proposal is just to get one parking spot in my backyard. I've been going through this process trying to get a permit since 2019. And we've done the community meetings. There was no no objections. All the neighborhood houses in this area has driveways in a parking spot. So I want to be able to get off parking and to speak and be able to park in my backyard. So it's just a curb cut. Got it. OK, Mr. Lopes, let me ask you a few questions. The house's orientation, the front face is Brook Avenue, right? Yes, sir. And the curb cut would be on Moorland on the side. Yes. Yes. And is there parking on Moorland? What I can say is from Brook F to past wheel my house is, it's about 90 feet, maybe a little longer. And in that section, there's no parking, because it's one way going down. After 90 feet, then the speed opens up. And it's OK. OK, but from Moorland, you're property from front to the front of Brook Avenue. To the rear of your property. Mr. Chair, could I just clarify? Mr. Domingo has spoken this. It might clarify maybe some of your questions. OK, go ahead. All right, thank you. And regards to 25 Brook Avenue. This is about Bob Domingo, VTD. Although the curb cut would be on Moorland Street in the rear of the property, there is not ample room for safe access and egress onto Moorland Street. The width of Moorland at the point where the curb cut is proposed is only around 12 feet width. In his opinion, he would like to request denial for this case. However, he will support whatever we decide. There is no parking on the side of Moorland Street, but if a car should ever park where the curb cut is proposed, it would totally block the street. OK, so according to Mr. Domingo, there's no parking on that side of Moorland Street. That's correct. OK, which actually seems to me an argument before a curb cut in parking to get. Because I mean, if we're just replacing one on street parking spot with one off street, then it's a no-net gain. But here, we're potentially getting a gain of one parking spot, a one parking spot. So OK, Ms. Brasa, any comments on the drawings? Mr. Chair, looking at the Google, the only thing that's kind of missing from this survey is a rear step, giving access to the second floor. Is that just missing here, but it's existing? Yes, there is some stairs going up in the back yard, yes. Right, but it's just missing on the survey, plot plan. Yes. OK, and thank you. That was my only question that I had. OK, so those stairs go from the back. Yeah, so imagine 5'4", that's really, you really just have about 2'4", potentially, of clearance before you hit a structure. OK, so you would get to, you go down the stairs and you'd be right in the parking spot. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, OK, got it. But in the drawing, it does show the 5 feet clearance. Yes, it does. Right, to the actual building, correct. OK, thank you, Mr. Lobs. Is anyone here to speak in favor of opposition of the proposal? Yes, Mr. Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Services. This time, the Mayor's Office is like to defer judgment to the board. Our office did hold the butters meeting. You'll concern for raised. We're unaware of any concerns from the neighborhood at this time. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Chair, I have no raised hands. OK. Again, it does seem to me like there's a net gain here of a parking spot. The curb cut is 12 feet. You know, one possible consideration might be to reduce it to 10. Correct. You know, so I'm looking for a motion now. I'd like to perform a motion of approval with a provisal to have a curb cut of 10 feet as opposed to 12. I'll second that motion. OK, Mr. Fortune. Yes. Mr. Buraza. Yes. And I too am in favor of the motion passes for that provisal. On your next case, calling B.O.A. 1349675 for Devastry. This is a demolition of existing ports in the rare construction of a new port in the same footprint and extension of habitals space on the second floor level. The violation is article 65 section 9. The floor to air ratio is excessive. Name and address for the record, please. Mr. Lee on. What's the name? I'm sorry. Uh, Kenneth Allen. Kenneth Allen. Okay. Okay. But as a Valerie Davis, are you with with the Allen. I send a request to unmute you. Hi, Valerie Davis. Can you hear us? Madam, Basil, we can come back to that one. I'm going to go to the next case. Following the next case, calling B.O.A. 1350338. Seven last Mont Street. This is a small addition in the back of the house with elevator. Bathroom to downstairs and closet upstairs. The violation is article 65 section 9. Side yards and sufficient and article 65 section 9. The rare yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. My name is Rob Passy. Only I'm from RP Architectural Studio on the architect network project. Carol Fries is the general. Can you give us your address for the record, please?