 Good morning. The Board of Appeals for February 28th is now in session. Just a reminder please have all your cell phones off and take any conversations that you may want to have outside of the room. Thank you for your time. I am informing you that this meeting is being live streamed and will be available after this meeting. If you are here to speak and support or are in opposition to a project, please put your name and address on the record. Please give us new information when you speak. We are here to hear from you and new information is more helpful than a repetition of what we have heard before. Also the BRA's opinion and community processes are all advisory to the decisions of this vote. Board. Mr. Fortune. Thank you Madam Chair. Good morning. The first approval of the hearing minutes of February 7th. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the first case is an extension for 930. Calling BCC 29846. 1954 Commonwealth Avenue. Madam Chair, members of the Board. I see original architect on this project. I have refused myself through all the votes but this is simply an extension so I will abstain from what it is. Thank you. Thank you. Name and address for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is George Marancy. I'm an attorney with a business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair, members, I was not the original attorney ironically on this but I do currently represent the owner of the property. He's my client at this time, the U Family Trust. This matter was originally approved by the Board of Appeal on February 9th, 2010 for Project in 1954 Commonwealth Avenue. The original date of entry, the decision was March 23rd, 2010. The permit there for fell under the Permit Extension Act. I should say the zoning relief fell under the Permit Extension Act and was automatically extended. In addition, my client's counsel at the time did in fact formally get an extension from this Board to extend the relief to its current expiration date of March 31, 2017. Shortly after this matter was approved, there was litigation. The litigation was resolved. After that, there was a lengthy period that was just concluded last fall, early last winter, with the Aberdeen District Conservation District essentially landmarks review of the project. What I'm requesting is an extension of the current expiration date of the zoning relief passed March 31, 2017 to now allow my client to obtain financing and complete the project. I would respectfully request a one-year extension rather than six months to avoid coming back here in six months if in fact the permit has not been secured and the permit hasn't been issued. But it is in fact my client's intention to construct this project. Make a motion for one-year extension. Just for the record do we have the new drawings on file? New drawings have to be, they're with the Inspectional Services Department. I could certainly arrange for a copy to be delivered to this Board as well. So we just need to know what we're approving. Certainly. So there's a motion. There's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries and the date please? Motion is March 31, 2018. March 31, 2018. Thank you. Calling an ex case for extension. Calling BCC 315441550 Columbus Avenue. May I address for the record please? Joseph Lieber with the law firm of Klein Hornig LLP. My office address is 101 Arch Street. Residents will address 15 sims in Rosalindale. Please give us a brief history and the reason for the request. Yeah, it feels like I'm just going to be restating what the previous attorney said because the facts are much the same. This property came before the Board in December 2011. Receives three variances for community center use for rear yard and screening and buffering. I mean, I can say state what the project is. It's a Jackson Square Recreational Center. Right. Part of the Jackson Square Master Plan. Yes. The proponent is Urban Edge. So it received the variances in 2011 filed with ISD in March 2012. Just like the previous project, it fell within the Permit Extension Act and was extended until 2016. We came before this Board and got an extension in 2016 that now will accept to expire on March 7th. And we're seeking a further one year extension. The project, you know, the financing structure is quite complicated. There are a great number of sources. I'll start from the second. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I make a motion for one year extension. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? So it's an extended to March 7th, 2018. Fine, thank you. Following an extension, calling B.O.A. 442-232-35 Hands Barrow Street. Name an address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Ruth Silman with Nixon Peabody on behalf of Brookview House, the proponent. We're seeking a six-month extension. This is for 12 units for homeless families. We hope will be then before we homeless. And some community space. The original decision was in February of 2015. And then final arbiter amended it slightly to increase some community space in July of 2015. My client is seeking a six-month extension. The financing is almost put together. And they really hope that they will be in the ground by the summer. But because it's a July date, they're seeking a short extension. Simply to be sure that we don't violate anything with respect to the zoning relief. I'll make a motion for a six-month extension. Excuse me. What was the expiration date on it? July 21, 2017. So that's six-month would bring it to January 21, 2018. Okay. Please. There's a motion. There's a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. And you're all set. Thank you. Calling next case for building code. Case BOA 659946235 Baker Street. Baker Street here. Do it through. Okay. Sorry. May I apologize? Here withdrawing. I'll make a motion for the Iowa. Without prejudice. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the 930 here. Is there any deferrals or withdrawals for 930? Hearing none. We'll call the first case. Calling BOA 665313175 North Habits Street. This is an expansion of the existing parking lot to provide 990 in-cellarie parking spaces. The violation. Section 27 in-cellarie parking is a conditional use. Name it out just for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chairman. Members of the board. My name is William Dillon from the law firm of Cools and Instours. I'm here with Joel Sklar, who's the principal of Samuels and Associates and Mike Fitzpatrick, Vice President of Development of Samuels and Associates, 136 Brookline Avenue in Boston. This is an application to provide some additional parking for the existing continuum project in the Berries Corner neighborhood in connection with a Trader Joe's new Trader Joe's door to be opening there. The project itself continuum was built a little over a year ago and it's open. The first floor is not, of retail is not completely occupied and this is in connection with the Trader Joe's lease. Samuels ground leases this property on a long-term basis from Harvard and the lease with Trader Joe's, although it's been signed, is contingent upon approval of the parking arrangements that we're proposing today. The parking that's being proposed will be for a surface lot across a newly constructed street called Ivy Lane that was built as part of the project. There's 180 parking spaces in the building now and the additional parking, which will be primarily used by Trader Joe's once they open, and the additional parking will provide for any additional parking that's needed for residents of the building. We're mending our ground lease with Harvard to include the additional surface parking across the street so it'll become part of the premises that Samuels is leasing. What will be the total number of parking spaces? The total number of parking spaces will be, I think there are 180 or so in the building and then the parking across the street will be for up to 90 based on demand. And it's not for exclusive use of Trader Joe's. It's for the residents of the building. Trader Joe's parking needs to be in the garage part of the building so the tenants will have an opportunity to park across in the building and across the street. So this is for the use of the tenants with watered rest? It's 175 North Harvard. So this is ancillary parking for the tenants at 175 North House. So the property across the street will be under the same ground lease. It's a separate lot so it would be considered ancillary parking. And what is the address of that month? I'm sorry, I missed book a moment ago. The lot is 175 North Harvard. The building is 219 North Harvard. A 219 Western Ave, a bigger front. This used to be the convenience store. This site was formerly various Harvard owned buildings. The Ed portal would be the most recognizable Harvard facility that used to be there. Yes, thank you Madam Chair, members of the board. Jeff Hampton, Boston Planning and Development Agency. I would just like to clarify in the BPDA's vote that you have before you today is a draft vote where we did ask following our policy of the three year sunset clause. That recommendation was made purely. No, fully understanding what was being asked for the ancillary parking. The fear at the time was that at some point in time this might become parking as a fee. We would just like to be reassured that this is going to be used for those residents and for Trader Joe's. I wouldn't want to put a sunset clause on this if it's being used purely for that reason. If it's being used for parking for a fee then I would ask for a sunset clause of five years. But if it's not, I wouldn't ask for a sunset clause at all. And so the restriction is that in fact continue to be used for the ancillary parking for 219 north west or west of the town and not for any other use. That would be for parking for a fee. That would certainly be fine with us Madam Chair. I would get was there adequate screening and buffering in place there. Mike do you want to speak to me too? I can't speak to it so the there is some landscape on the perimeter of that parcel and adjacent to the road that we reconstructed and built. It's something that we plan on developing the construction level documents further that would include some level of treatment on the edge of the parking lot. Is this part of the department's IMP? Well it's part of the whole redevelopment of Barry's corner. I mean not to mention the hybrid IMP but the Barry's corner PDA. So I mean it's quite an improvement. So we're not the BBDA is not opposed to the use at all. It was the parking for the fee that was maybe out there but as long as we're reassured that that's not going to happen. I don't want a sunset clause on it at all. I have plans for designing the contract but I'm quite clear. So that means you can simply park there for another one. We're not looking to do transit parking here at all and that's how we're just we're only going to use it for purposes of residents of the building of the continuum project. I think that's the only purpose for which it'll be. The trader, 100% of the trader Joe parkers would be either on the street or in the garage of the building. None of them would be in this parking lot. So access to this parking lot would be by key code or something? There'll be a system like that key code or hang tag, something of that nature. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Warren Rally, Office of Neighborhood Services. We are here to speak and support of it. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Tony Dizadoro, representing the Austin Civic Association, Warren, record and support. The commission of a trade of Joe's to the North Austin neighborhood is a very significant development and we understand that this relief is critical for it to happen. So we're in support. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Daniel Polonco, behalf of Councillor Marxio Moe, like the going record and support as well. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Mr. Pru, would I add a proviso that the approval be contingent on limiting the use of the parking for the residents? It's for no fee. No fee parking and that it be limited to the use of the residents at 219 western hour. Madam Chair, may I ask you a clarification? No fee. We might charge residents of the building for the parking but it's fine that it be limited to them. But it may not be general no fee. No, no, no, no blue P in front of the lot for sure. Okay. All those who pay the price. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with those providers. Very much. Thank you. Following BOA 629-541-85 Lyndon Street. This is to construct a new three-story addition into the rare of an existing single-family dwelling. The parking space is at grade and under the addition. Change our country from a single-family dwelling to a two-family dwelling. Violation is Article 51-Section 9. The floor to your ratio is excessive. Article 51-Section 9. Useable open spaces in sufficient. Article 51-Section 9. Side yard is insufficient. And Article 51-Section 9. Rare yard is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Boehler. My name is James Christopher with the business address of 450-independence ad. I'm RCALC with the Architects on the project. At this time we'd like to request a deferral. We've been discussing with the mayor's office and Councillor Cielmo's office. The ACA, the Austin Civic Association did not support the project. We did have an about his meeting that was overwhelmingly positive. But at the request of Councillor Cielmo and discussing with the mayor's office this morning. We'd like to defer, try to tweak the design and go back to the ACA and see if we can garner some support. Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date please. April 11th. Thank you. Calling B-O-A577-433-391 LaGrain Street. This is the legalized parking space in front of the house. Entry is from an existing curb cut. This space is to be used to unload handicapped tenants and wheelchairs. Violations article 56, section 39. Arstee parking requirements. Pocking in front yard is forbidden. Name and address for the record please. Llanby Tellus, 1185 Bennington Street and East Boston, Massachusetts. Ten counting him, the manager and trustee of 391 LaGrain Street. Who enters from RHD and she's the manager of the house? Megan Chilson. I'm also from RHD. Seven B. Colony Street. Matt Ferd. So please, tell us what this proposal is. Yes, I have a plot plan showing the existence of the current existence. And it's been like this since I bought the house 35 years ago. There's always been parking in front. And the only reason I'm coming before the board today is that I started getting parking tickets like a year ago for parking in front were in fact for the last 35 years since I've all known. We've always parked in front. In fact, the reason RHD is here, resources for human development is here, is because they use the front of the house to bring in the handicap vehicles to unload the clients so they can go up to the ramp to the inside the house. Can you please give the young lady their copy of the site plan so we can understand what is going on? I may solve this. This is not a proposal. This is how it currently exists because there's really no action to take to modify it. So this is as proposed? This is as built and as has been for the last, I would say at least 40 years because that driver was able to foray on the property. Mr. Cunningham, so it looks like there is a legitimate front yard. I did a site visit yesterday. It looks like you have an existing driveway. There is the handicap ramp right next to Billings. It looks like the front yard, the parking is actually, there is a grassy front yard in front of the building. Yes, there is. This site plan, however, shows that the existing driveway is closed and closed to the ramp. It doesn't show that there is in fact a fence there and a legitimate front yard. I have photographs. Let me see if that helps. We're not planning on doing away with the grassy area in front. We're just looking for relief to so that we can continue parking in front for the handicap because the grain street is a very busy street and sometimes it's very dangerous to unload people in front of the house. Have you looked for handicap parking on the street? Well, there's a handicap parking on the street, but a lot of times they have a van, their own van plus a lot of times a lot of people who have a handicap used up space to go into the car on the next floor of the neighborhood. If I may speak, the area is very competitive for parking. We're right next to Billings Field and for three seasons a year you have little league, you have adults playing, baseball, you have a large playground. The parking in that area is pretty heavily used, including the handicap parking because handicap parking also use the field. Next to the core of pub, the core of pub is a neighborhood pub that caters to a lot of elderly people who have handicap parking. It's not uncommon unless I'm leaving or coming back very early in the morning or late at night to find that there is no on-street parking that's closer than in three or four blocks away. And are all the units handicap to just one unit? The first four units. But there are multiple people. Multiple people. Do you have wheelchairs and one is somewhat of a fall risk and also has issues with getting the story into this field. This is something I have to say at every meeting because we have to recognize that the relief does not go with the building. It does not go with the ownership. It does not go with the use. It goes with the property. So just so that you understand that we have to always, as a board, be cognizant of that fact. Okay, how are the plans Mr. Bazzani? It's exactly the same plan as you all have. I do have a question now. How many of the tenants actually have automobiles? Well, you know. You're not. Well, there's a third four tenant that has one vehicle. The staff have a couple of vehicles. They have a van. But the key times are in the morning and the afternoon when the vans have to, the vans are bringing the people back from the day program. There's a critical time where they, around 334 clock, especially 830 to 9 in the morning, when the traffic's the heaviest and they have to be off the street in order to load the people into the vans. So let's ask, let's ask a question. The existing driveway, the one that goes into the, towards the rear yard, who uses that? To the one straight ahead goes that the third floor uses one parking space and the first floor has access to one behind that. And there's another third one would be in front. So the three, three legitimate parking spaces in. So who is the third tenant? A person that uses that space. RHD is on the first floor. That's my apartment that has two people in wheelchairs, one person who's a fall risk and one other developmentally disabled person. The person on the third floor has one parking spot. The middle floor is what we call an independent apartment. It's lived in by a developmentally disabled man, but he's staffed part of the time. His staff have cars and when his staff are there, or when he has visitors from other houses that are driven there, they need to find parking for their vans or cars too. And then there's my staff, my staff will come and go in the middle of the night because our shifts ended 11 o'clock. So some of them will feel nervous if they walk too far, although sometimes they have to. So in reality, the space is really full. Staff members? No. This space in front of the house is for the wheelchair band. It fits very well in the driveway because you have to open the ramp that comes out and that's... Well, the photograph is looking at this is not on the wheelchair band. The critical times of day between 8.30, 9 o'clock in the morning and in the afternoon, like 3 or 4 o'clock, the staff don't park there because they know the vans are coming in and they move their cars to make sure the vans can safely unload the clients. Okay. Any other questions? You describe this situation as an existing condition for many years. I've owned the house since 82. Okay, so what has triggered the... I started getting $300 parking ticket. I understand that. And what triggered those tickets? The different enforcement. Public work started doing some kind of... And I started getting tickets. I have no idea why the city decided to start giving tickets on it. There's no explanation. I feel them and every time I feel them to the public works, they dismiss it. They dismiss it. But they also suggested that I go through this process to go through the board of appeals. So they will... The trigger, and we need to bring closure to this conversation soon, is that this spot may have not been appropriately permitted in the past. And that's no issue of yours, but... Perfect. Yes. But now it's issued for front yard parking. Bob? The man in the GLA, he moves to the board, Bob, the board. It's just a recommendation. We could work with the applicant to put any cat in front of the house on the street, which is something very doable. And it might help your health up. So, okay. Can you dedicate that to a specific building? Okay. Is... Is there something? You were getting tickets on your private property? Yes. Of course you were parking. I was there. Okay. There were times. Hold on. Hold on. Is anybody there to speak and support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jack Doug and Mayor's Office of the neighborhood services. I just want to speak. I mean, Mr. Cunningham, support. We held in the butters meeting on January 19th, and we all support the Abudding Neighbors. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Bill McGregor with City Council of Madom Alley. The Council would also like to go on record and support. And we've actually been told of other people getting tickets if a driveway was made and it wasn't up to code. So, you know, this isn't the first time that we've heard. I know that you're asking about getting a ticket on private property. So, the has happened. It still happens here and there. So, they're trying to get everything up to code, I believe. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name's Tony Blie. My family owns the property at the Directly Abuts. I'm Mr. Cunningham. Mr. Cunningham's a great neighbor. He's a city guy. His kids went to city schools. He volunteers for a holy name. The YMCA, the rotary. I'm just fully in support of this. He's not changing anything. And he's not bothering anyone. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody here just speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? I'm trying to question before motion. The BPDA recommended it to Nile. We did on the policy just as the chairwoman had stated that. And he's owning a relief that, you know, is granted, goes with the property and not with the owner. May I have a motion, please? I'd like to make the motion to granted a approval with a sunset clause that after three years, something like that, you have to apply for some kind of handicap space in front of the premises. There is already a handicap space. That's my motion to it for three years. Is there a second? I'll take it down. All those in favor? I have. Any opposed? Opposed? I'm opposed. I'm opposed. I'm opposed to so the motion does not carry. Mr. Domingo, as a special extension, can you work with the applicant because I know he does an excellent job on trying to figure out the best way of making this work for them? Because I think there is a solution to this. So please, can you work with them? Yes. Can you get Bob's information? Because I think it can work. Following an ex-case, calling BOA 636001322 Blue Hill Avenue. Is also building code called BOA 6360023332 Blue Hill Avenue. Blue Hill Avenue here. This is to change two apartments and stores to its two seven to seven studio apartments in one store. The violation of Article 9, Section 1, extension of an icon forming use. Mixed use structure and MFR sub-district, extension of floors, stores, floors, area, and grows. Article 50, Section 43, insufficient parking. Article 50, Section 26, insufficient lot size. Article 50, Section 26, insufficient additional lot area. Article 50, Section 26, excessive FAR. In Article 50, Section 26, insufficient front yard setback, a minimum of 20 feet. For the building code, Section 1208.3, room area minimum, room area width of 521 CMR requirement. Successability is in non-compliance. Name and address for the record, please. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. This is the first floor. The first floor. The first floor. The first floor. The first floor. The first floor. The first floor. The first floor. You know that the first thing we always do when there's a building code violation is have the applicant speak to what the resolution is, or the response to the citation of the building code? Is the citation of the building code? So, are you prepared to do that? Yes. Yes. Please. This specifically relates to section 1202.3 room area minimum and So we need a response to that as as the first question Winner the bit one of the bedrooms was Insufficient size it was it was 11 by 6 and a half which had Turned out to be a typo the actual size of the drum exercise of the bedroom is is 12 feet by 8 feet 11 I mean it was it was corrected and it was submitted. I don't know if you guys ever gonna Which bedroom which unit is this related to I Give you some press floor and second floor unit in the rear You have a set of drawings prepared by 5 foot Fast Show The same size. The only change, the issue is that the enrollment five foot eleven is the other sufficient way for that role. So what change, where is the eight foot position? This is at A exactly A by 11. Can you explain the point? Which draw on here? The enrollment is now there. I can tell you put it on my screen. You identify on your sheet, which sheet you're looking at that will clarify for Mr. Bazzani. It's right here. I'm looking at A dash four. A dash, it's on sheet A dash five on the proposed third floor plan. This is proposed. This is proposed. This is for the second eighth. A dash five. If you give me three of eight dash four. Is this continues? They don't want to pursue a goal. This is proposed up before us before. Was this proposal before us before? No. You never brought up a proposal for this property before? No. That's all you have to stop. Okay. Is there a response in the energy seat? Is that all satisfied or the understanding of this building code relief request? No, only if they did work. Because the drawings that I'm looking at were originally stamped in 2016. Okay. And that was one was the architect. And now I'm going to have a drawing that has no date. And it was not the paper that has changed was me. No. It simply says for foes, so you haven't made a change. There hasn't been that there's no work done under the middle. Given that, Madam Chair, what is probably the pose is correct in the violation of the site increasing the distance from 5 foot 11 to 8 feet. On that basis, and make a motion that I ran for bill with what you don't need to do the code relief. Now, it was made a motion. I did not hold the list because you don't need it because you're going to make a mistake. Yes. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay. Now to the merits of the case. Tell us what you're proposing to do to the entire building. My proposal is on change the building. You can speak up a little bit. My proposal is change the building. The area is by serving a studio and the store for single personal. I think the area is in here because I know see around one studio apartment. And he got good signs for each apartment. So, let's just backtrack. First of all, how many units is this? Seven. And what are the sizes of these studio proposed studios? For a studio. That's the second floor. This is dining room, living room. Just the sweat footage, please. This is about 400 square feet per unit. Yes. Okay. And tell us about the parking. One of the violations is insufficient parking. The building is located on Blue Lab and there's no parking there at all for the building. It's going to be an honesty parking. So, the building is an existing building that covers the entire office. Yes. Okay. And the initial use was for how many units? There was two, there was two, three bedroom units on the second and third floor. And it was on the first floor. There's a store. Okay. And what kind of store is that? It's a level variety store. A variety store. Okay. How would the plans Mr. Pazani? The plans are adequate, the revised plans are adequate, the fine. The plans are adequate? The plans are adequate. And the second means of egress, etc. Yes, the rough. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Yes. Hold on. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Chiedem, Councillor Andrea Campbell's office. We'd also like to go on record and support. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I ask you a question? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. May I have a motion, please? Because looking at the pictures, it looks like the store has grates on it. Does it? Yes. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. VDR. VDR. All right. Motion to approve. With design review for the grates and the entire. Yes. Make sure that everything's fine. Code wise. Is there a second? Second. All those in favour? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries, but that provides. Okay. Good luck. Calling BOA662-156-416-Hoverd Street. This is to construct a new three-family dwelling on an existing $6,654 square foot lot. It's violations, Article 10, Section 1. Limitation of area of accessory uses. Article 60, Section 40. Location of obfrey parking in front. Yeah. Article 60, Section 40. Oftrey parking design and maneuverability. Article 60, Section 41 conformity within existing building alignment. Article 60, Section 9. Laudier area for additional dwelling units. Subficient. Article 60, Section 9. Usable open space is insufficient. And Article 60, Section 9. Side yard is insufficient. Name and add just for the record, please. Morning. My name is Stuart Shryer. I'm an attorney with an office at 10.05. Do not just a revenue. I'm a lawyer with me as Trinoc Win who is the owner of the property. The proposal is to build a traditional three-family house on a lot that's much longer and narrower than one would hope. The significant violation, the most significant violation, is it's in a 3F-5,000 zone, which requires 5,000 square feet for the first two units and 2,500 square feet for the additional unit. So you really need 7,500 to do this as of right. And we have 66 plus a little. So we're about 900 square feet short. We are providing three off-screen parking spaces because of the narrowness of the lot. One of the violations is probably maneuverability. I have a picture to show you. And as you can see, the lot is sort of almost a banana shape is the problem, which leads in the parking area to be a little narrow. And therefore, you know, a little close on the side. Basically, the side tree is maybe. I'm sorry? Maybe. Oh, of course. Okay. It's really a nice design. I've done a lot of these three decades there on 4,000 square feet and small lots. This is a 6,600. It's actually a pretty nice lot. And the only violation, really, the big one is that you're just about 900 square feet short. Is that an existing curb cut? Sorry? Is that an existing curb cut or a proposed curb cut? That's all I can do. Is that a curb cut? Oh, the curb cut is good. Okay. How would the plan of this design be? Orange or Adam? Any questions from the board? Does anybody here have to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair and members of the board, with George the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, we did complete a community process for this project. And the proposal, and there was no opposition from the Abudders, we'd like to go and recommend support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andrea Campbell's Office, we'd also like to go on record support. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion for approval. VVD. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries or all set? Thank you very much. Thank you. Paul and BO8658, 314, 3-7, Courage Court. This is to combine two vacant lots into a single lot, erect a three-story three-family townhouse dwelling with garage. Violations, Article 50, Section 29. Insufficient additional lot area per dwelling unit. Article 50, Section 29, excessive FAR. Article 50, Section 29, insufficient news of open space. Article 50, insufficient front yard setback. Article 50, insufficient side-dads setback. And Article 50, Section 29. Insufficient rear yard setback. Name and address for the record, please. I'm August Dessolvera in reference to 3-7 Courage Court. You're proposing? Morning Board Members. I'm here today to propose a three-family townhouse on a zone in its three-family 5,000. We only have 3,000 square feet. I have the plot plan, the proposed plot plan, of what the land looks like and also the building attached onto it. I don't know if you want me to put it somewhere or have that available here. How will the access work? The access is actually on private way. There is no parking on the street. It's a very narrow private way. I don't know what's supposed to be parking there. And the three-family that we're proposing, do you want me to show you the pictures? All right. So the three-family that we're proposing needs basically five variants. We don't have, it's a 3,000 square feet, as I said, it has insufficient dwelling, excessive FAR, usable open space, setback, side yards that is needed. That's in front of you today. So when combining the locks, it's 3,000 square feet. That is correct. Total size. Correct. And you're proposing three townhouses. Three townhouses on the lock. So the pay and tell us how the parking is going to work. The parking that we're proposing is actually a garage right on the first floor in the dwelling itself. So as you pull into the private way, you would go right into the garage. The building will be located at the street level. And it also reduces, I know there's some issues right at the moment that people are parking in the private way. That would actually eliminate some of that. And we also, I came in this week, we came and realized that another home was in front of you guys, in front of the board back in 2004-2005, that there was parking that was created on these lots, from allowing them from going from a single family to two family dwelling, which I wasn't aware of the last time that we were here. We got a deferral to further investigate that and found out that in fact they were, the board had made a decision that the owners should park on that unit. Although I don't know why the board granted four parking, the requirement was only a single parking that was needed based on the zone relief that they needed. So the building locked that was converted for one to two, do they have adequate parking on their lot? Once we're done with the building, they will. There will be a tandem parking between the building that we're proposing to do and the next building which the owner actually owns. And also there'll be three parking inside of the building that we're proposing because it has a garage attached to it. We realize that there might be more space that's needed and we're willing to shift the building more towards the opposite street to make even more space in between the two buildings for the parking that would require. That would be incorrect. The owners are adequate but doesn't that put your neighbor's building in violation of open space? In other words, they have a building that has open space because they're parking on your lot. You're taking the parking away from them and now they're parking on their own lot, paving their lot which doesn't count against the open space. And the actual owner owns everything in that area except one building which is the action on the other side. It's not the issue. It's not the issue of who owns it. It's the issue of the park that was approved for the two families. And the way it was approved, you know, I just saw the parking problem was the insularity parking on the adjacent lot. We're not taking that away. It seems to be it but it's them in violation on your count. One is probably parking because you're different from the open space. The parking that was originally assigned to this in the same spot. There's no change as far as where they're going to park. It was tandem parking between the two buildings. We're just going to make it a little bit bigger instead of them parking actually on the lot in question. They can park right on the side. And the requirement for that particular unit was only one parking. And we're proposing that one parking and also proposing additional three parking within the building. And if need be, we can actually because I only found this out like, you know, within last couple weeks. I haven't had the opportunity but with the BRA, if this board approves it, we can shift the building a little bit closer to the other street where we would have more parking space in between the two buildings. The problem is that then you probably increase your violations. When you start shifting around and you want everything set as soon as possible so that you just set financing wise, etc. Looking at it, I would not violate anything because the violation is actually in front of the board which is the side yard. It's already one of the reliefs that was seeking. Yes, but if you're going to increase that violation, then this doesn't cover it. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Greetings, Madam Chair and members of the board. Joshua McFadden and Mary's office neighbor services like the Glory Against Support of this project. We have in the butters meeting and a lot of the butters were in agreement. I know there was one butter who mentioned some concerns with parking as you are mentioning now. Other than that, everything went well. Set the parking situation if we can get that mitigated. As for now, we are supporting. Thank you. Madam Chairman in the board, my name is Luke Stiberos, legislative aid first. I'm here to state the representative support of this project. I'm here to provide the support of the community and the community organizations such as Project Wright and Delis Reef, your neighbor initiative. Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Joe of the P9, I'm a resident of District 7 in which I live not too far away from this project. I mean support of this project. I think this is a great project. It's going online. What the mayor is doing with the city. I'm adding more affordable housing to this community and I'm aware I have long time relationship with this owner of this property as I've known him to be in the neighborhood since I'm migrated here. I migrated to the area, no Mr. Tavares owns this area, this property. And I know that he's going to provide low income housing meaning that he's not going to overcharge for this rental unit. So I am in agreement with that because it's also going to help the residents in the neighborhood. Can you put your address on the record? 59 Elm Hill Avenue. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Good morning, Madam Chair. My name is Ricardo Bryant. I currently am the owner of 20 Judson Street, which is less than a block away from this project. I'm here to support the project because while it adds affordable housing to the area, it also brings the property value of the areas up. The issue of the park has been addressed. I understand it because I live the average driveway in my house. The parking can be an issue. This particular project provides parking spaces for each building. So I don't see whether that would be an issue. I've been in that neighborhood as a resident for over over 40 years as an owner for the last 10 years. Knowing the family that wants this project to go through, they're good people just trying to provide. Just for clarification, you're in favor of this, correct? Yes, sir. You're in favor. Oh, I thought you were speaking opposite. No, no, no, absolutely not. Thank you. Is anybody else to speak in favor? Are you speaking in favor? Yes. Oh, good. Please. Your name and address are the record. I'm Darnella Crossat. I live at 27 Gailan. I'm a long time owner. I've been there 50 years. I know the people very well. And I also agree that it's going to be low income housing. It's going to be better for the neighborhood and that a little value. The parking is the problem. I don't have a parking spot either. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Hi, Lilius. Winston, to cottage court. Opposition only due to the fact of the parking issues that are in question. I am to cottage court. I am the other butter. And I have concerns about being able to have me and my family be able to drive into cottage court. What is a very tight spot? It's about the size of a driveway, the width and about the length of five, five and a half to six cars. I am very concerned that if an additional car is on these townhouses would be blocking the driveway and blocking my family from getting in and out. Thank you. Thank you. Just a clarification from you. This was denied before, right? No, ma'am. No, this was deferred before. This was deferred before. Because we found out of the letter that exists from 2005. And is this a new application then? Yes. How has it changed from the deferred one? It has not changed. We found out the last time that we were here, we found out that there was a letter from 2000. Scheduled for today as a deferral or as a new project? As a deferral. I haven't marked at the original hearing, which was 10th of January, from deferred to 14th of March. But it appears that every butter here is aware of the date today because everybody is aware of your presence here. This was reattentised. I remember this one. This was reattentised. That's why the butter is here. Okay. We just... I think originally it was January 10th. And then something to that hearing, we had a discussion. And we tried to get them on earlier. But the only thing to do that was by reattentising all of that. Okay, so we just need to make sure that we, in the future, close all the appropriate loops. Okay? Okay. Getting here in the testimony may have a motion, please. But a motion forward to approve the project with a BPDD design review. We can continue to work with the neighbors. All those in favour? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Darling, BOA 676-313145 Stotenstreet. This is to change our future in the lodges house with 12 lodges to six apartments with eight parking space and renovate the existing boarding house. Violation is Article 9, Section 2. Ninetconforming use change from lodging house to MFR, a letter of termination is required. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient side yet set back. Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 65, number of allowed stories have been exceeded. Article 65, Section 8. MFR is conditional use. Article 65, Section 39, screening buffering. None is proposed. And Article 65, Section 9, location of main entrance units must face the front-line. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair and Members of the Board. Steve Zuda, 145 Stotenstreet, to access the Massachusetts. Andrew Litchfield, 546 East Broadway. Ryan Aconey, 546 East Broadway. Please tell us what's being proposed. We have currently in the existing structure. We have a 12 room lodges house with a dilapidated barn in the back. We're planning to rehab the existing structure, put it to two condo units in the back, wrecked three condo town homes in the back. Okay, so this will go from a lodging house to five condo units. Five condo units. Five condo units. And that's quite a switch. Have you registered it as a lodging house? Are they still tenants in the building? The building is vacant, but we have not yet deregistered the lodging house. Okay. And tell us, these are a lot of violations. Tell us, if any have gone away since your change of proposal from six apartments to five apartments. Yes. Yes, originally you had a first meeting with the Jones Hill Association. They had some concerns on the density, also on the height, and on the parking as well. So what we did, we went forward and we eliminated one of the units to eliminate a little bit of that density. Also, it would raise the parking ratio as well. We took the existing, the new proposed building in the back from 31-8 of a height, and we dropped that down to 31-4. And right from there we made multiple changes on that for the neighborhood association as well. And these buildings are connected? Yes. Yes, they will be connected. Also, many of the setbacks we will be using the existing footprint of the barn. So the setbacks in terms of the barn to the new structure will not change. And there are roofed decks proposed? No, there is not. There is one in the middle structure that connects both the existing in the new unit, which would be deeded to two units. No. That would be off the second story. And what are the unit sizes, the sizes of the two units? Roughly anywhere from 950 to 1100, then there is one three bedroom in the existing structure that is a duplex. That will be 1600 square feet. Okay. Does Mr. Bazzani have the most recent grants? Yes, he does. Round of 4. Yes, because I am looking at a A-10. Okay, that does show that roof deck. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Drawing your own way. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chairman, members of the board, Flavio DeVega, Mayor's Office, and they would service, like to go on record in support of this project. We completed a community process with both Jones Hill Civic, as well as the Buddies, and we worked out all the differences in support of this project. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeck, and City Council, Frank Baker's Office, would like to go on record in support? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion for approval? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Calling POA, 637-44138, Wighting Street. This is a change from a two family to a three family dwelling. Work has already been done. Violation is Article 50. Section 11, please. There was excessive, Article 50, Section 29, a lot of areas insufficient. Article 50, Section 29, usable open spaces insufficient. And Article 50, Section 43, upstream parking, is insufficient. Name and address for the record, please. Mancer, Dianne, 38, Wighting Street. The police tell us what you're proposing. I would like to request the deferral since I didn't have the community in neighborhood meeting. I have a question for you. Did I understand that this work has already been done? Yes, yes, Madam. So what's a community meeting going to do? This is the process they told me you have to go through. Okay, may I hear from the mayor's office of neighborhood services? Madam Chair, members of the board, we definitely understand that the work has already been done, and we wanted to make sure that the community knew that we supported them as well, and making sure that the applicant actually went back before and re-end our voice to plans again with the community. We just wanted to have that on the record. Okay, thank you. May I have a motion, please? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please? April 25th. Okay, we'll see you then. Thank you, Madam Chair. The following, the OAS 646-4717-779 South Street. Jeff. Jeff, this is the... This is to install a new dormer third floor. Probably that's it. Violation is Article 55 Section 9. In sufficient FAA, the dormer addition will worsen the existing non-conforming FAA. In Article 55 Section 9, in sufficient side-toed setback. The dormer extension is within the allowed side-toed setback. We have a new admin address for the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chairman. This is the board, Cameron Marrow, business address, Marrow and McGeeery, 100 State Street, Suite 200, Boston, Massachusetts, residential address, West Second, South Boston. As you have before you, this is a Mars proposal to add approximately 40 to 45 square feet on the third floor of a condominium unit building in Jamaica Plain, abutted by a parking lot, which will be decided, which the donors will face. Ultimately, this comes down to a modernization of the unit. This is in the kitchen living area where there is a slope-through currently. This will simply expand the area 40 square feet and allow for a higher ceiling in this area to make it more livable for the occupants. The lines are designed. Drawings are underway. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Alexandra Valdes, Mayors, Office of Neighborhood Services. The project went through a whole community process with no opposition. I would like to go on record to support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Andrew Baldizan from the Office of District 6 City Councilor Matt O'Malley. I'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Does anybody here just speak in opposition? Can I have a motion please? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set. Thank you, Madam Chair. No. GOA 672 890 1511-1525 Washington Street. This is a change of occupancy, wireless communications, the office wireless communications, the yoga studio, and renovate the tenant space. The violation is Article 64, Section 18. The viral yoga fitness studios have been named and addressed for the record, please. Good morning, my name is Mike Ross. I'm an attorney at Prince Low Bell. I'm here with my client, Jamie Golden, who is a three-year resident of the South End, and a fitness instructor, entrepreneur, who seeks to open a bar studio at 1511 Washington Street. It would be considered a fitness use, which is forbidden in this area. The applicant has engaged in a full community process, has met with the Blackstone, Franklin, a square neighborhood group on November 15th, had full support, and has met with the Washington and Gateway Main Street's group. Some members are here, actually, to support, and she's just been doing a lot of on-the-ground outreach and is looking forward. How many square feet does this have? This is at 1558 square foot ground floor unit within an existing building that presently contains 33 units of housing, office, and a restaurant. What is this here for placing? It's for placing an office use that's been vacant for three years, and the neighborhood's really interested in seeing something go there. Okay, what are the hours of operations proposed? Approximately 6am to 8pm. Seven days a week? Yes, with some closing throughout the day, but mainly open mornings. I have to get hours. Exactly. Is this in the same building as Phyllis? Yes, no. How are the plans for this design? Dr. Jeradikin. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Sam Chambers, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support. As the applicant has stated, they have the support of the Blackstone Franklin Neighborhood Association and the Washington Gate Week Main Street organization. Residents have been asking now for years that this space next to Stella and next to the Blackstone Communists in the American Latvian Field and was something that they feel would best represent the neighborhood. We have a lot of residents moving into the neighborhood and that already live there that are looking for more physical activity. So they think that this is a perfect space to go into. So we would like to unrecognize the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Gary Webster, behalf of Boston City Council President Michele. We would like to go on record and support. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz, on behalf of City Council, are allowed to micr-flare the lights of one record and support. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, and the board. My name is Matt Fox. I'm a South End resident and a lawyer in the South End. I think I'm appearing in support of the project. What's your address, please? 46th Warren Ev. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Jennifer Adler. I'm a South End resident on Washington Street. I think the neighborhood, especially on Washington Street, could really use an uptake into small businesses to help increase some of the foot traffic in the neighborhood as well. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Sophie Madison. I am a South End resident and local business owner. I'm right on to her Mount Street and I support this project. And what's your address? Home or business? Oh, Bond Street. In the South End? Okay, thank you. Yeah. I see three two more people. Are you both in support? Yes. Okay, so please just put your name and address on the record and just tell us that you're in support. Okay. No speaking, Madam Chair. We know it's you guys are in support. People have kind of said everything that needs to be said. So please put your name and address on the record and tell us. Okay. Thank you. Is anybody here in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with BPDA design review. Passignage? Yes. South End landmarks says jurisdiction over. Okay. So with approval. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good job, Councillor. Thank you. Calling BOA 666656407 Dudley Street. You're looking to change the use of the first floor unit from residential to office use. Violation, tactical 50, section 19. Office uses a conditionally used name and address for the record. Yes. Peter Bechow, architect. We're going to be happy. The owners of 4 or 7 Dudley. All right. So it looks like you're here for clarification. What happened at the last meeting? That is correct. We are here for clarification. We've been through the, of course, the ZBA process here. We went to ISD for permit. Hold on. One minute. What were you proposing the same thing at the last meeting? Exactly. And when was, what, what, what was the, this position of the case and when was that? I do not have the exact dates of our approval, but we went through, we got approved, we went through BRA design approval, we did everything that we needed to do. We went to permit at ISD. And here the issue is that we have a building that has eight units in it. And we are in our submission package to the ZBA. We had eight units, one of which was a commercial. So it's a mixed use building. And that was actually required through our community negotiations, all of those things. And it made sense as a mixed use building. However, in the audio transcript from the hearing, there was no mention of the commercial unit. Nor was there. So the question, what, what zone is this in? It is in the Roxbury neighborhood district. And what's the zoning? What, what, is it a commercial unit? Same Patrick's and it is, it's a mixed use is acceptable. It's a multi-family dwelling. What is the zoning? Is it an MFRLS? Oh, is it a straight MFR? It's neighborhood shopping. Correct, yeah, NS. The commercial use would be an allowed use. Correct. So you'll hear just. For clarification, we were stopped at permitting saying that the commercial unit was not allowed and was not part of the ZBA's approval. And the commercial unit was an office. Correct. That is odd, okay. How are the plans, Mr. Satton? Going to the right, Jeff, why would a commercial unit not be allowed in an neighborhood shopping district? For not to answer that question. That's not up to me to make that. I mean, it's nice. I wasn't there during the review of the case or what I SD looked at. So I don't want to comment on this. I have the same plans that was submitted at the last hearing. Yes. Okay, so this should have come in as board final, Arbiter, but is anybody here to speak in support of this? Madam Chairman, Mr. Boyd, Josh McFadden, Mary's office neighbor services. We are in continue support of this project. Anybody in opposition? May I have a motion please? Board Member. Did you have, you had BRA design review previously? That's correct. Yes. So we will continue that design review. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. So thank you. Madam Chairman, on the board, it's 1030s. I'm going to call the 1030s. Are there any deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? George, address please. Number 12, lowering street. Well, the record calling BOA 668-824-12, lowering street. Name and address. Fill the record please. Good morning, my name is George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. Madam Chair, members of the board, we were prepared to proceed today. I was hired in this matter only within the past few weeks. I noted that the refusal letter, which was in response to a permit application filed on August 6, 2016, correctly cites the zoning district for this property as an H-150 district. Unfortunately, the zoning refusal letter recites violations attributable to Article 68, which was not in effect at the time that the application was made. This project, I believe, understands, enjoys support from a butteries end from the elected officials. But proceeding today would be to proceed under an incorrect zoning citation. Do you want to make sure the records are there? Yes. What I'd like to do is request a deferral and hopefully a short one so that I can secure a corrected and updated zoning refusal letter, but that will have to be re-advertised. So there needs to be at least three weeks to allow for proper notification. We have a motion. Motion for deferral. Second. All those in favor. Hi. Hi. April 11th. April 11th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals with draws for 1030? Ma'am. Okay, is there a address? 277 do adjust the street. For the record calling B-O-A-656-951-277 to 277-A, do adjust the street. There's also a companion case B-O-A-656-950-277-277-A on the building code. Name and address for the record please. So, Robert DePiro. My address? Yes, please. 38th Dertestreet when the request is. We have a deferred this project so we can work out with the community. We have a community meeting already. We did. And. They're in opposition. Okay. Okay. We have a motion, please. That's a good part. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor. Hi. Hi. We have a date of April 25th. Well, excuse me, sir. Will that give you enough time? April 25th? It should, yes. Okay. You're all set. Thank you. Okay. I have the deferrals that withdraw for 1030. I think I have one more to. Okay. Yeah, it's. It's 124 M Street. For the record calling B-O-A-656-955-124 M Street. Name and address for the record please. Robert DePiro. 38th Dertestreet when the request. What are you requesting? Just the deferred this is going to work so we can work out with the community. They're also in opposition. This is a completely different project. Different project. It sounds like an unerilled, good roll. I know. It's open too. Okay. May I have a moment? Most of it in the furl. It's our second. Second. All those in favor. All right. Can you post the date? The same date of April 25th. That'll work. Thank you. That was 124 M Street. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 1030? Nobody's outside and they have a deferral. I'm going to play the first case. Calling BOA 671-592-24-34 at DEMREL Street. This is to allow a food truck to park and serve food from the parking lot associated with the building at 28 DEMREL Street. Violation.8, section 4. Use is not listed. DEMFORITED is of Bidden Use. Name and address for the record please. Yes. Comkin. Your address. Um. Are you here as a translator? I know you're not more business partners, but she is under her name. It's under her name. Why don't you guys both put your name and address on the record? I'm pretty sure it will listen long. You want my residence or one third? Yeah. Okay. One thirty westbound carries for a blind mass. Okay. And. My name is Conquane. My address is 34. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. My name is Conquane. My address is 34. Russell Park Quincy, Massachusetts, 0216. Okay. Let's be proposed. Um. So we're proposing to park our food truck in the parking lot at 34 DEMREL Street. Uh. We are in agreement and have a agreement with a DEMREL properties which owns that parking lot. Um. We're looking to park in this area because it's a growing area. There's a lot of businesses. So. What's on this property? On this property. It is just a parking lot. And what's next to it? Is it industrial? Oh, yeah. Right now it's industrial but they're kind of growing to have more residential areas, shops, and things that I've been researching into. Um, across the way is, uh, uh, uh, Verendale Associates and then they also have Boston food groups across the way they have Lucky River transportation. Okay. So it's industrial slash complex. Yes. Okay. It's not. So it's a complex, but it's a design. So I'm just wrapping it. If you're looking at the building of 28 DEMREL, it's the truck we located in the parking and left of the right. Um, it is right across the street. Oh. But it's on DEMREL Street. So it's also looking at the park overnight there or it's just a small room? Uh, yes. That is our agreement with them. We have, we are in talks with one of the lease or renters in that property. He has a USDA approved kitchen downstairs. Um, we're, so we're going to use that as our, uh, commissary. And an all sale will occur in the parking lot, not on the street. Correct. In the parking lot. You know, moving the food truck anyway, you're going to leave it right now. At the moment, no, we've been working very tirelessly to make sure that this truck is safe to be on the road. Everything inside, kitchen wise, all the, our equipment is very ready and to go. Uh, in terms of our vehicle, I don't trust to drive around the city and park on the streets at the moment. Unfortunately, it's been quite, uh, stressful for us. But if we are able to keep it stable and produce food and serve to our customers, that will be very helpful to us. Okay. Any other questions from the board? You anticipate, were you doing on catering or do you anticipate just, uh, certainly people here? Something that I hope to do in the future because it will definitely bring us a lot of, uh, customers and a lot of happy stomachs. Um, but, uh, that is something that is in the future. I want to make sure we have, uh, clientele first and get our name out there. So you anticipate serving primarily people walking in that area? Yes. There's a lot of people. What kind of food will you serve? Um, this will be sip-twenty food. With a little twist. Okay. Does anybody have to speak and support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors, office of neighborhood services. We would like to unrecord and support of this application. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan, with City Council Bill Lennie, in his office, Wishing Garden, right in support. Thank you. Yes. Does anybody here just speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries? You're all set. Good luck. Good luck. Thank you. Calling BOA 630-482-520-Dorchester Avenue. This is directly new eight-unit residential building we're packing below on combined lots when the existing buildings to be raised. The violation is Article 13, Section 4, Twelings and Anon Residential Zoning District. Article 14, Section 14-1. Lots of s***. Article 14, Section 14-2. Body area required for additional dwelling units is insufficient. Article 15, Section 1. The floor area ratio is excessive. Article 17, Section 1. Usable open space required is insufficient. Article 18, Section 1. Minimum front yard requirement is insufficient. Article 19, Section 1. Minimum side yard requirement is insufficient. Article 24, Section 1. Our street loading requirement is insufficient. Article 16, Section 1. Hight requirement is excessive. Three stores, the maximum is allowed. In Article 16, Section 1, the building height is excessive. Thirty-five feet is maximum. Name and address. Further, acting please. I'm warning madam chair members and the board. My name is George Moranci. I'm the attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway and South Boston. I'm joined by my client in the owner of the property, Kevin Gorm. Madam chair members, the board, the site here is on Gurchester Avenue in the area of the area. The Gurchester Avenue study area that the BRA has been planning for many months now. This application was originally filed in June of 2016. As the planning for the Gurchester grog zone began to take shape, we quickly became impacted by what's going to be a requirement on Gurchester Avenue for widening of the public sidewalks. So we had a couple of delays in this project in terms of getting final BRA design approval for the project, which we did ultimately secure. The design is currently proposed. Does in fact have a 10 foot front yard set back, which serves to widen the width of the public sidewalk on Gurchester Avenue. At the time, this was filed. The relevant zoning district was, and actually still is L1 slash H150. The default is the H154 residential building in an L1 district. The lot size is just over 4,500 square feet. This building is the second half, essentially, of a concrete block commercial building, a low-rise building across the street from Andrew's station. Between Woodwood Street and Gurchester Street. About mid block, this building starts again. It's a low-rise commercial block, commercial concrete block building that runs down to Woodwood Street. This board in December 13, 2015 approved a very similar project at 518, 518 Gurchester Avenue, which is essentially the other half of this commercial building under ownership of a different owner. Kevin Gorum owns this half of the building, which would be demolished. So this entire existing commercial building would be gone. The proposal is for eight units in a building that would rise to a height of approximately 51 feet. The FAR would be 2.89. There is an easement and passageway in the rear that would allow for vehicular access into an eight car ground level parking garage. There is no commercial space associated with this building. This was approved by a unanimous vote of the Andrew's Pacific Association. I want to be sure to go on record with something that was promised during that meeting, which is that if approved, we would work diligently with the Boston Transportation Department, and with the architect in order to try to, as best as can be done, to maximize the size of the currently four compact parking spaces in the garage, two of which are seven feet wide. There is probably an architectural solution to widening those parking spaces a bit, and we didn't say that we would commit to that. There are eight parking spaces, as I say, under the relevant zoning for eight units, the Austrian parking requirement is 7.2 or seven parking spaces, and we do, in fact, have an excess space. There would be eight two bedroom units. The units are sized between 1,200, eight two bedroom units. They are essentially identical units on the left and right side of the core. 1,250 to 1,300 foot units. There would be two roof decks that are dedicated use of the forward most top two units. There would be forward roof decks, I should say, or the other two roof decks that are at the right side of the building. There would be 12 feet by 12 feet. What's the health of forward roof decks? Two roof decks, I'm sorry, two roof decks, if I misspoke, two roof decks for two of the top floor units. And there are these two real passageways that show on the front. There is a rear passageway that I believe should be on the site, but it's a passageway of record. When you said there was a potentially an architectural solution to expanding in parking spaces, I'm looking at eight, the actual 1.1. You don't know where we're going to get the actual. Well, I think the lobby area would likely have to be reduced. There were obviously building code requirements for stairwits, but I think the lobby could be reduced a bit. A standard compact space, I think, is, I think we can at least probably make two standard sized compact spaces. You got to throw out there, leave it in the lobby, I don't know how much. I hope you can find a few issues. Yeah, I would hate to remove one of the parking spaces that could be done in widen the others, because our roster requirement is seven, but I'm not sure that that's the perfect solution either. And this is the last one, can you park it for unit identification? Yes, they could in fact be, some of them could be tandem spaces. How would the plans of the design be? Drawing is all right. Any questions from the board? Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison Mayer's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to unrankered in support. This project has been through a pretty extensive community process. We held in a butter's meeting. We did communicate with the BPDA to ensure it complies with the .av planning initiative, and it did receive a unanimous vote of support from the end risk-wrestling of the association. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan with City Council of Neighborhood Services. I would like to echo the comments made by the Mayor's Office of the Law and Record and Support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz. On behalf of City Council of Laryd's Michael Flarey, we'd like to go unranked in support. Anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design review and continued efforts to work on those parking spots. I'll start. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Or else, I could go. Thank you. Calling BOA661573, 11 May, who's treating? Yes. Is it an addition of approximately 2,750 square feet, multi-purpose common space in the Rare of An Existence School Building? Violations article 9, section 1. The proposed addition will be an extension of an existing non-conforming use. Article 65, section 41. The increase in the area due to the new addition will require additional parking spaces. Article 65, section 9. The new addition increases the existing non-conforming, excessive FAR. An article 65, section nine, the new addition increases the violation of existing nonconforming radio setback. Name and address, fill the record please. My name is Bob Baldwin. I'm at 74 Willow Road in the Haunt, Massachusetts. And I have with me Jan Saglio. I'm Chris. My home address. 95 Fair Oaks Avenue in Newton. Tell us what's being proposed. Thank you, Madam Chairman. This will be an expansion of an existing building. The Boston Collegiate Charter School has been in this location for about 10 years. It's a renovation of a of a of a Confent and a school building. About 46,000 square feet and about 500 students on campus. This is going to be an infill addition of a single story, cafeteria, and we call it the existing building has no assembly space and really no place for the kids to eat. So we're adding about 3,000, a little less than 3,000 square feet in between where the two buildings exist. There's a connection as it is and we're sort of filling in around the back. And what's the use? What is the current use of that space where the fill in will occur? Yeah, the current use that space is really an asphalt courtyard. It's not used as exterior recreational space. There is a small recreational space behind the old convent building, which will remain as open space and recreational. And in addition, there is a parking lot and this new construction does not take any parking spaces from the existing use. And it doesn't add any students or staff. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support at this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, Mayors Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to unrecord in strong support. We did hold in a butters meeting. The project was very well received and this should be a great addition to the community. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Joe McGeckeren, City Council, Frank Baker's office, relates to going to reckoning support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz, I'm going to be on the City Council, our large Michael Flaherty, we'd like to unrecord in support. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Mayors, represent in the Carpenters Union. We'd like to go and record in support of this project. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? We have a motion, please. Motion for approval was the big BDA design. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed motion carries are outside. Thank you. Calling VOA66102322 Rose Clare Street. This is a change arch from two units to three units and add full height, third story. Add living space into the basement. Violation is Article 65 section 8. The three family is forbidden in a two-f sub district. Article 65 section 9, insufficient side yard. Article 65 section 9. Number of stories has been exceeded. Article 65 section 9, the Florida air ratio is excessive. Article 65 section 9, usable open space is insufficient. May I have just for the record, please? Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Patrick Mahoney. I'm Adam Zinn Morancy, the business address of 350 West Broadway. I'm joined by my clients and owners of the property, Dan Rubin to my right, and Ray her talk to the far right. Please tell us what's being proposed. Madam Chair, we have an existing two family and we're expanding the top floor half story to be a full story three family. There is no dimensional change to the front sides or rear yard with the exception of the force of the half story will be a full story and thereby going into the side yard which would be represent the side yard violation. The additional violations would be floor area ratio and again, the building, there's living space in the basement already. So the eavespace from the half story going to the full story is the full extent of the floor area ratio violation. There is an open space violation cited although this area is 2F 5000 and it's neither a single nor two family detached building. Accordingly there is no open space requirement in the Article 65, 2F 5000 area. There is an existing two car garage with an access point which could be made and will be made with this proposal to be a three car garage and through an exhaustive community process we've had received a positive vote at the McCormick Community Pacific Association and had a successful onsite about us meeting to address community concerns. I mean I know you're here for that third floor but is that a legal basement use? It was an existing living space and I couldn't, I didn't check to see if there was a building permit for that because we're coming to the board for this but it's a by-level unit that's being proposed. It's a by-level unit today. There are three bedrooms in that unit and it's 1,400 square feet. The intent of course would be condos here. Can you tell us about the sizes of the other two units? Approximately 1,000 square feet each, two beds, two baths. The first unit would be, there's a concern in the area for families staying in the neighborhood and so we kept the by-level unit the way it is in terms of size to ensure that that would be a possibility. Councillor, I do have a question. I'm looking at drawing a 0-1 home and it shows the basement as an existing condition which is simply storage. 8-1-0-1, is that what you said, Mr. Pazani? The finished storage space and part of the utility storage space as it's labeled when I saw it, Mr. Pazani, I didn't draw the plans but it was a living room and part of the first floor unit. I do see the discrepancy in the plans. That's right, I raised the question because it says the drawing was done in October of 2016. So the question comes about how did they go? I can't answer that unfortunately but in any case what I'm here today to propose is that we have a question whether or not it should be cited. It is, the FAR violation would encompass, there is no new violation as a result of letting space to the basement because we have an excessive flow area ratio violation. I've been cited as an extension of use not only into the basement but into the floor, the proposed floor. So it should have been two elements in this. It would be one violation, Madam Chair, the extension of flow area ratio and the use violation from a 2-2-3 would encompass making the two families a three family. So in another way of saying whether or not the basement is actually built legally at the time, the relief would be the same that I'd be seeking. An extension of flow area ratio and a 2-2-3 family. There isn't an additional violation. So you're confirming that the use of the basement that you on site visit did in fact show that there is a bedroom down there that there's living space down there and that the rear access is, the rear space is for storage, mechanicals, etc. Yes, I'm confirming there's living space in the basement. I'm confirming it's currently a by-level unit. I don't recall if there's a bedroom down there but what I am proposing is that there will be a configuration of the space to provide for utilities and there is storage down there currently. And that bedroom in the basement, what is the access would be by the common stairwell? Is there another means of egress? There's one within the unit as well as the second means of egress required and also a window well egress out into the side. So the top right corner of the bed for all of the floors, so is that where you're referring to be? Yes, exactly. So the emergency egress would be through the window well of the basement. No, I don't understand. But there's no direct connection between the first floor you're going to have in the basement. Oh, there is the stair on the other side of the bed. It goes up to the first floor. It isn't an additional unit. And if that was the concern, that would be an additional violation. But that's not what's happening here. Well, what do you 101? I was looking at it all. Yes, it's a conclusion. Mr. Bazzani had to. Oh, I apologize for that. Any other questions from the board? How long has the applicants owned the building? We don't own the building yet. It's contingent on the zoning of the building entitled because they have a purchase in sales. Anybody had to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, officer, neighborhood services. We'd like to go in record and support. We did hold an on-site of butters meeting and the project was well received. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, John McGertran, City Councilor Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go in record and support. Madam Chair, members of the board, Ryan Spitz, I'll be on the City Councilor on large Michael Flare, who would like to go in record and support. Thank you. Does anybody have to speak in opposition? Do you have a motion, please? Motion to approve with continued BPDA design review. Second. All motion favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your all set. Thank you. Calling VOA674997, 416-1448-West Broadway. This is a change to actually reflect a fitness center on the second floor of SW202, no work to be done. The violation of Article 68, Section 7, a fitness center is for the bid and use in the zoning subject. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney Joe Hanley, McDermott, Quilty Miller, 28 State Street in Boston. With me to my right is Jody Merrill, who is the owner proprietor of the B-tone fitness and the applicant for this case. Yes, I have for the record letters support from the St. Vincent Lower and Neighborhood Association for this proposal. Background on the site, 416-West Broadway. This is an existing commercial building at the intersection of Broadway and F Street. Once had a rent center build business on the lower level. The space that we're looking to change the occupancies on the second level, it's about 1800 square feet. It was most recently akin to a fitness use, it was a martial arts studio. And so what Miss Merrill would like to do is open her third health and fitness business at this site in the city of Boston. She has one in the North End and one in the back bay. It is for Pilates and cardio classes in the like. All by booking classes only. They open around 5.30 in the morning. Periodically through the day, have classes and then close when there aren't classes and operate till about 8.30 at night. Again, we think this is a great location. The BRBPDA had undergone an examination of the zoning in this district and I think they're also planning to revisit whether a fitness use on the second level on Broadway should be allowed and not forbidden. But in any case, unique to this site is the fact that it's a commercial building, it's a space that had essentially a fitness use in the past and it won't be detrimental to the neighborhood in that we've had positive outreach with the neighborhood group. We held a butters meeting. No opposition, full support and you have an applicant who has experienced running this type of operation in the city of Boston without incident. And there is a residential use above? Is this building? No, no, ma'am. It's a restaurant occupancy proposed for the ground floor which is separate. She's obviously just a tenant and then I think there's other commercial uses throughout the building. Dentists. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? Drone is around. Any questions from the board? There's other two locations. Do you need zoning relief for that also? No. She just met us. Any other questions from the board? Does anybody here just speak and support in this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Allison, mayors, office of neighborhood services. We'd like to unrecord in strong support. The proponent did present to the St. Vincent's neighborhood association and there was a lot of support at that point and we also held a very successful on site aboutters meeting. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, James Chan, with City Council Bill in the hands office, wish come, and recommend support. You're going to pass? No, I'm going to pass. Okay, anybody here in opposition? Members of the board, I'd just like to highlight the varying degrees of support and opposition with Article 68 here. As you can see, is the Article 68 variance requested and I just hope that the board remains independent, depending on who the applicant is and the wavering decision that they will act at official stake. Can I have, excuse me, can you come back? Brendan Binkoski. Any other address? Three Bay State Place, South Boston. Thank you. Anybody else to speak in opposition? I just would like to clarify. No, it's okay. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody else in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion from the board. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. Calling BOA669-093-37B. Thank you. This is a combined unit 62, 63, and 64 to change Arxwood from 35 apartments to 33 apartments. Unit 62 and 63 previous combined with a use of change permit for 63 and 64. Go to the New Headhouse, stay in roof deck for this one, newly combined unit number 62. Violation article 15, 615-1, the Flirty Air Ratio is excessive. Name an address for the record, please. Unrobbed coffin, I'm the owner of 37B Constreet and I have with me the contractor, Oliver Boucher and the architect, Joss. So it looks like essentially what's triggered this violation is the new headhouse, stay in roof deck. That's correct. So tell us about the details about that. Okay, so the project as you'll see in the first sheet is to add a new deck. The first sheet shows the pre-existing deck. The next sheet shows the plan for a new deck and associated headhouse. So the violation relates to the expanded floor area ratio caused by the headhouse. The total size of the headhouse is 250 square feet, including the stairwell hole, 150 square feet without the stairwell hole, which increases the size of the floor area of the building, 0.4%, and adds to the floor area ratio, taking up from 3.08 to 3.09 without the stairwell hole. And if you include the stairwell hole, takes it to 3.10. So obviously the requested have a variance for that increased, very small amount of increased floor area ratio. If one moves the next couple of sheets, it shows what the headhouse will look like, and the key points are it's very unobtrusive from anywhere which you can see in any public space. So you can go through the next couple of sheets and show it's pretty small. It's actually an additional headhouse, an addition to two current headhouses, one for the elevator, and one for the common staircase up to the common roof deck. If one looks at the next couple of sheets, you'll see that there's plenty of precedent for such additions. There's a couple highlighted, these are very close to the building in those colour photographs. If one then next that moves to the next sheet, one sees where it is most visible from any public place, which is on the common, and the photograph is only taken from a long way away, because that's where you can see it from, if you're closer up the perspective stops you've been able to see it. And as you can see it's very modest and is clearly lower in height and relatively small as compared to the rest of the building. If you move to the next sheet we have done pretty extensive neighbourhood outreach in regard to the project. We have first of all got the approval of the building, including the residents and the condo trust. We held an all building meeting. We have the non-opposition of the Beacon Hill Civic Association having presented to that group twice. The non-opposition letter, while it was agreed some months ago, was actually only sent into you this morning. So you will have that added to the files, but the Beacon Hill Civic Association is not opposed. We have done a lot of additional outreach to neighbours, reaching out to all the butters that we can see, sending the packages of information with no oppositions received. And the Mayor's office also did and had the butters meeting where no following which no oppositions were received. So in summary on the last sheet really that just sets out the project as a whole which we think is a very modest increase in floor area ratio of 0.01. And we hope therefore that you will be minded to think it's reasonable. How are the plans Mr. Pizani? Drugs are out of it. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, just so Guerrero with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services, we'd like to go on record and support. Anybody here to speak in opposition? Yes, my name is Renee Nylens and I live at 35 Beacon Street and I'd like to speak in opposition. I believe that they said that there was outreach to neighbours. There was no outreach to our particular building and there's five unit holders. And I have spent the past 20 years in Beacon Hill between living at 35 and 36 Beacon Street. I understand that there is an existing roof deck on 37 Beacon because I've been up there many times. The existing roof deck is very substantial in size and my concern, both from a budding neighbour as well as looking from the park on to the residential properties there on Beacon Street, is that the head house will be able to be seen. I saw the photographs of it at a subsequent Beacon Hill Civic Association and depending on the angle of the photos, personally I didn't find it out of troops. Thank you. I have no objections though to any other items in the matter. Yes, is anybody else here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve with continued BP. No design review on this? Beacon Hill. Beacon Hill. So motion to approve with continued work with Beacon Hill. Is there a second? All those in favour? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries, you're all set. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm going to put it on. I'm going to put it on. You can't hold the wire. Just keep it in. Hold it. Hold it right. Am I ready for that? The board will go into recess and we'll return back at 1130. Anybody who's here to request a deferral or withdrawal for 10th, for 1130, should be prepared to speak immediately when we reopen the hearing. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The board of appeal is back in session. Any withdrawals or deferrals? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is an article 80 project here to ask for a deferral. Hopefully in the final stages now working with BRA staff and neighborhood representatives to finalize the dimensions of the building. I expect the BRA board in April. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The residential district is a conditional use and insufficient setback from the roof edge. Section 780 CMR 1027 exists. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. The proposed fence and equipment cabinet reduced egressed by two feet which is not allowed. There is an existing staircase on the side of the building with supports that come down. As you can see, this is looking down the alleyway. This is looking west from the border street part of the building. This is an existing building. These are the existing supports for the staircase. This is the existing area, closet basically, outside closet where the current owner of the building puts his recycling to the restaurant and stores other things. The building code issue is not something that that Verizon Wireless is creating. It's actually a pretty existing issue. So please tell us what's the proposal? The proposal is to, let's say, I'm going to do a zero by one thing like that. We are adding this next piece, basically a second closet going back down the alleyway. However, the issue with egress is created by this poll. And we're not moving that poll. There's actually room there to go through. And we actually tailored our plans after meeting with the butters who live in this building, 50-plitch street. I had some email changes back and forth. We met with them in the butters meeting. We also met with one or two of the residents of that building on site to discuss what we could do here. We pulled that width of the closet back so that there was more room on either side of this poll. So there's a distance between the side of that building and the front of your cabin. It puts the distance. There I have a deferred to. There's a letter from the very engineering who was a site engineer. Yes, sir. It's currently three foot nine inches. To the poll from the corner. Yes, three foot nine inches. And the cabinets open out. They don't slide. Correct. They open out. But they only, there will be a rising wireless technicians visiting the cabinets. Perhaps once a month. So the doors will may close, except during those visits. And it's really just that you know, an hour visit to the site to make sure that everything is functioning as required. So what's happening when the restaurants recycle? They read just to kind of scrunch their their views in space so that we can finish there as well. Well, they're still behind the horizon. No, they're stuck. We'll just move forward and our stuff will fit into this space. So it was sort of a space sharing agreement plus we're taking a little bit more space. But we're not extending or narrowing the existing. So they'll have to have access. So the rising technician only can once a month. That's not going to be going to be regularly. Right. And that's their cabin. They use that now as far as I know. But from the same access, same doors in the front. So for doors, their doors are here. And then our doors, they're that that jar. Presence is there. And then our hours is this one. So those will be the questioners. You may change that the existing bill has the building profile. I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I have. So then the next question is, has the existing building been cited for that building profile? No, not the other way around. So they have to look at the building profile. It was based only on what was being done for your project. No, the existing building profile. The example that was called out by ISD is, is would be there whether we were moving out equipment at the property or the existing building profile. And then the whole violation is as a violation of the post. And it holds up that. I know the ISD letter and the planned examiners specifically sites. Yes. You are a project. I want to make a motion to deny the building code belief. You can always go to the state and see if they'll grant it to you. But it is in the north end. It is a very tight to begin with. And then the next question is if those buildings would, would, would, and is the life safety, it should as far as I can say. And whether it falls on you, or you build the owner is another issue. But I don't think this boy should be in the position of exacerbating known building code violations. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? All right. Just a quick question on that. Is that wood or is that steel? It is wood. And it does say here that the proposed fence and cabinet, equipment cabinet, reduced the egress by two feet, which is not allowed. Two two feet. I mean, two two feet, right. Okay. So let's get on to the, to the core request, which is the wireless communication. So please tell us what's being proposed. We're proposing to put eight antennas on the roof of the building along with supporting equipment that would be in two sets of four. They'll be camouflaged behind fiberglass chimney, basically fiberglass shielding that's painted to look like a chimney. I've got pictures of that as well if you wish to see those. This is a front shot of the restaurant as it currently exists. And this is what Verizon Wireless is proposing. There are antennas that will go will be basically enclosed within those fiberglass code chimneys. There will also be, uh, antennas will be on a new steel ballast frame. And you can see pieces of that coming down there, but it'll be painted so that it blends in with the side of the building. You know, your new to our board, we've seen these before and we're not big fans. We have in the past for the regular consultants who do come. Really look for ways to minimize the visual impact of all these, all these miscellaneous attachments to buildings. How are the plans, besides? Well, the plan is a generic and adequate. But again, the issue is that the notion of doing fiberglass enclosures that are painted, I mean, the problem with that isn't just doesn't stand out. More of the proposals come back and in fact using fold brick or whatever. So that you have the pieced surface that can sustain the weather. You know, basically, you're across the street from the ocean. If I may, the purpose of the fiberglass is that it's our friendly fiberglass, it allows me to enhance the action. I am sent. But it's a full brick. I just asked, is this the best location you could find for your antenna? This is where we would like it to be. Yes, it's just based on our, I mean, I brought my RF export. You can testify to the coverage provided if the board wasn't here. That that's why it was not at the highest point. I mean, you should correct it. It doesn't necessarily need to be at the highest point here. Based on where the antennas are situated, it covers what Verizon Wireless needs to be covered. No, no, no, I think you missed the point. It may not, it may be perfectly functional from Verizon's point of view. It's higher and less visible. And I'm concerned about the visual impact. No, I certainly understand that. And we're proposing what Verizon needs to spot to fulfill its coverage needs to meet its requirements and some of the federal telecommunications act in 1996, which is for the biosynthesis of our region. No, again, I think the chair was asking if maybe it was a better spot. You may have done what you need to do with that spot, then maybe it was a better spot in terms of visual impact on the community. We have basically done what, this is what we have done to mitigate these new impacts about the proposal. Thank you. Any other question? Any other questions? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Maria Lance of Mass Office and Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. The applicant has completed a full community process and has the support of the Northern Waterfront Neighborhood Council, as well as working with the Abudders before and after that. Thank you. The applicant has been assigned the necessary service since the community is supporting this project, this Council wants to go on record and support, as well. Anybody here to speak in opposition? Can I have a motion, please? I will reluctantly make a motion. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I'm opposed. I'm opposed too, so it's been denied. We totally understand the need, but we take this a better location for this, and you remain as a company need to do better due diligence on finding a location that's more, that will have less visual impacts. Thank you. Calling an XK, calling BOA 64229147 Joy Street. This is the removal of an upper-level existing roof deck to remain frame and install in Udorma. The violation is Article 64, Section 34, restricted roof structure regulations, name and address for the record. Beth McDougall, Portugal Architects, Chelsea. We are proposing to take the existing mansard roof and basically tilt it up to make a dormer. There are neighbors on not adjacent, but one over. They have done the same thing. How much square footage does that bring you? Two feet by 16, 32. 32 square feet. And the existing roof deck is to remain. Yes. How many miles from Mr. Pazani? Drone or adequate? Is anybody any question similar to the order? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? Sam? Yes. Please. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Sam Chambers, Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go on record and support the applicant has completed the community process. And I do want to thank them for continuing to speak with their neighbors about this project. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion, please? No, please. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. This is 616373-5 Quincy Court. There's also a building code, BOA6616403-5 Quincy Court. This is expansion of a living space into the basement area. Constructed one-story 10-foot-high vertical addition onto the existing building. The space will add 329 square feet of living space to each of the two existing third-floor units. And currently 578 square feet each. The addition will be a type of reconstruction. Firewall will be maintained. Violations, Article 54, Section 12. Dwelling units and basement is forbidden. Article 54, Section 13, Afflutty, Aratio is excessive. Article 54, Section 13, Radio out is insufficient. Article 54, Section 18, Roost Structure, Restriction. For building code, Section 7-A-D-C-M-R, 7-05.85, Open it in a exterior wall. Window openings are not permitted within three feet of the property line. Name and address for the record, please. Good morning. William Ferrell with Thermal Quilty Emiller at 28 State Street. To my left is the owner of the property, Richard Treble-Yoni. To my right is out to choose the architect. I will point out first because it will address the building code issue. There's been an amended plan filed, which I believe is here today in front of the board. We have additional copies with us. The building code issue had to do with a rooftop vertical addition that has been removed from the amended plan. So the building code is violations no longer applicable. We have a motion. I have a motion. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Mr. Bazzani, have the most recent plans? Mr. Bazzani, I believe you do have the most recent plans. One of their revision dates, I'll find. Ten. Ten. Ten, seven, sixteen. Okay. So please go ahead. At this point to explain, this property is a three-story building with six units. The original proposal was to add living space in the basement so that we could doplex the basement with the first floor. That is still part of the revised plan. The second half of it was to add a rooftop vertical addition to the third floor. That has been removed. So therefore in removing that, two of the violations that you see before you, which is the roof structure, violation no longer applies as well, because we will not be adding to the roof. We would ask that that be left on because in fact there are HVAC condenses going on the roof, but it doesn't apply any longer to a structure. And in this district, the ISD has in fact requested 5418 relief for condenses on the roof. So we are asking that be left in limited to the condensers. And the re- It's the violation that's been reduced or limited to the roof. The violation that no longer applies is 5418, I'm sorry, strike that, is 5413 re-yahed insufficient because the roofed-off addition was at the rear of the building. Okay, so tell us what's being proposed today. The key to proposed today is that we be allowed to place living area approximately 450 square foot per unit in the basement so that we can duplex that with the smaller area on the first floor, making a duplex apartment on two sides of the building a first floor embassment. So that's the limitation now. So it will be the total unit size then. Each of those duplexes. 450 in the basement and the first floor is, I believe, blessed in that because of these staircase. Not the architect, give you 900 square feet. 900 square feet, okay? And it still remains as a six family. So it's just the extension in the basement. The number of units does not change. It's just the extension of the first floor use of the basement. And what will be in the basement? The basement has a family room and laundry and a bathroom. Family bathroom, pardon? It's a walk out. It has a full walk out at the rear. Okay. And the rear has, it's not an enclosed rear. There is access outside. Let's treat or something. There's a courtyard in the back. The access in the front is semi below grade, meaning we, hopefully, we just gave you some photographs of the prior condition of the building. What you can see is that that basement has windows in it that are approximately three quarter size as opposed to full size. So it's not fully below. So even though you can access the rear, the rear is a courtyard that does not get to the street. The drawings are adequate. I do have one question. After there's a bedroom that is six foot ten wide. And a little more point to work on. The question is that I always thought that the minimum dimension for habitable wrong, especially if that was eight foot. So the question is how is that really into that? That would be a good question. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Maria Lanz, and Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We'd like to go on record and support. We're looking at work with the abutters as well as going to the North and Waterfront Neighborhood Council. And at this time, we would like to support based on the work and the changes that they've made with the abutters. Thank you. Thank you. Since the applicant did make changes on their plans, at the request of the neighbors, the council would just be recording this for the proposal. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? I want to make a motion to grant the relief requested with a proposal to provide with one of BPA design review. And the second proposal is that no room should be less, have less dimension than the code of the lawyers. I'm sorry, could you just repeat that for the bill room? No, habitable room should have less dimension than the code requires. And that is in particular attention to a six foot ten wide. So, please leave the code requirements. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Those are provided. Following BOA 66420411 Austin Street. This is a replaced existing rear decks and egress stands with a nine by ten deck and spiral staircase. Installer roof deck, frame and finish two bedrooms, and three quarter bath and an existing basement space approximately 640 square feet. The violation is Article 62, Section 8, usable open spaces and sufficient, Article 62, Section 62-8, Rheat is insufficient, and Article 62, Section 8, the Flood Air Ratio exceeds the allowed area. Name and address for the record please. I'm Richard Newell, Nine Duck Line Road, Eastbound with Massachusetts. And my family is a current owner of the property. And just put in perspective, this was my childhood home. I lived in the building from time I was three until I was 17 and left to go on the United States Army for eight years. My mother lived in the building for 54 years after that, and we've been taking care of the building. And our objective is to make some improvements interior and exterior that will allow the building to be passed on to my children and grandchildren. So I said, did you do it in my name and address on the record? Yes I did. Okay. And Chris, if you do it in my architect, we'll talk to students talking to last person. Please anybody who's speaking, would you name and address on the record? Thank you Madam Chair, I'm Mr. Bored. My name is Christopher Dunin, Dunin Architects, the architect for the project. So we're looking to increase the interior living space by finishing the basement, adding two bedrooms and a three quarter bathroom. One of those bedrooms would be replacing an existing first floor bedroom, that first floor bedroom, which has become expanded living space at first floor. So we would be making the basement code compliant by, we want to excavate down. So we have proper ceiling height for habitable space. We have proper egress windows and areaways to get out of there. And just as I said, two bedrooms, three quarter bath, egress stair to get down to the basement and out of the basement. So your total addition to the property is 640 square feet. Correct. And that impacts your rear yard violation, but that's an existing rear yard violation. Is that the portion of what we're applying for does not impact the rear yard. We are looking to add a roof deck at the top of the two story piece in the back. That roof deck would be access to the third level. And we're going to replace an existing egress stair from the third floor and second floor down into that rear yard. That egress stair is noncode compliant. It's in a state of disrepair. It's approximately 120 square feet in footprint. It's tight to the rear yard line and the side property line. So we want to replace that with a code compliant spiral staircase which reduces the amount of non conformity. Any further comments on the moment? Third three. This is a three family and this spiral staircase would function as a second beam to be pressed. For the third and second level script. How are the plans for this design? The drawings are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, John Ellison, mayors, office of neighborhood services. On behalf of Chris Green, we'd like to unrecord and support. It's my understanding there wasn't a butters meeting that was held with the majority of people in support with just some concerns around the size of the roof deck. Thank you. I would just like to add. No, I don't want to. I'll go ahead. Judy. Go ahead. I attended the aboutters meeting. There was significant support for this application except for one direct about it who had a problem with the size of the deck. He did reduce the size of the deck so the approach we wish to go on recognition support as well. Thank you. Is anybody here still in support? Excellent. My name is Jim McHugh. I live at 64 Pearl Street immediately and back. The builder has been very forthcoming about what he plans to do. The main concern is noise from the expanded roof deck. They've agreed to put in at least the limitation on six people at a time on that roof deck which is perfectly adequate. But I'd invite the board to consider making that a condition of the allowance. Obviously that good faith promise doesn't carry forward legally if the property sold. But whether or not you do that I'm in support of the front. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? Oh, I should go for a roll. Can I give you a design? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? You're all set with that provides a good luck. Probably meal A668392, 1A to 1B Curtis Street. This is an erected addition and changed actually to include two offices in six dwelling units. The violation of Article 53, Section 56, there is insufficient Austrian parking for the proposed residential use. Article 53, Section 56, there is insufficient Austrian parking for the proposed office use. Article 53, Section 9, the proposed construction has an excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, the proposed construction has an excessive number of stories. Article 53, Section 9, there is an insufficient side yard setback. Article 53, Section 9, there is an insufficient rear yard setback. Article 53, Section 8, office use is a forbidden use and a 2F 2000 sub district. And Article 53, Section 8, multi-family residential is a forbidden use and a 2F 2000 sub district. Name an address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair members of the board. I'm Richard Lins, 1216. Bennington Street on behalf of the petitioner with me is Julius Socle, who is the principal of the entity that owns this property. Presently Madam Chair of this property involves a single story commercial structure that occupies half the lot. This is a corner lot located in the Gorient Heights section of East Boston. Our proposal is to create a mixed use building that would have smaller residential units, studio size units above, with two professional offices located at the grade level. We had undergone an extensive community process with the neighborhood. This project started out a little bit different and based upon a lot of the input that we heard, it's one of the reasons why we're proposing all studios, as well as no parking believe it or not in East Boston. One of the issues, believe it or not, with respect to the parking question was how many curb cuts we would have to add to the site. This site is directly across the street from a series of garages that already have a pretty wide curb cut and on street parking becomes very limited as a result of that. The neighbors specifically requested that we consider a proposal that did not have parking and one of the reasons why we reduced this down to studio units. The location of this building is within a blocking distance of Wood Island train station and this would certainly offer an opportunity for that type of market who's not necessarily looking for a very large unit, something a little bit more affordable with close proximity to public transportation. Mr. Sogel is a real estate professional as well as an attorney. His office is presently located at the site and would continue at that location and the additional space would be used at grade level for the professional office use. I can run through the zoning relief which runs the board for the particular site. This is a 2,000 district. It's correct. So commercial use is not allowed. Tell us why this should be an exception. Did you say professional use? Not a lot? Professional office? Yes. It's one of your violations at site. Yeah. So the existing use that's there today, actually the history of that, has been a garage use as well as an office and warehouse type use. So we would be continuing with the pre-existing non-conforming use just using a larger portion of the lot for that use. Directly across the street is commercial use. There is retail as well as retail directly across Bendington street and there's manufacturing located there as well. So there is, even though this is a 2F 2000 district, there are a number of other uses which would suggest that commercial activity is something that's not uncommon for that location as well as multi-family. And is that office use that's been existing? Was that a legal office use or was it something that happened over the years? My understanding is that the office use was accessory to the garage use and parking lot use that existed on the site historically. And that's just continued only as office use. The garage use would arguably be abandoned at that location. So this is 60 units. How many square feet is that blocked? The lot is 2500 square feet. The total amount of square footage that we're proposing with the commercial and residential is 4800. 2000 would be roughly 2000 for the commercial and about 1800 for the residential portion. One of the requests that the neighborhood had made is taking the building and pulling it back from the abutting property on Bendington street to give a little bit more of a buffer. We agreed to make that modification. In addition, the elimination of a roof deck was also requested by the neighborhood something that we agreed to comply with as well. So tell us about the unit sizes. So each of the units are roughly anywhere from 450 to 590 square feet depending upon the unit. I understand that 450 square feet is the minimum recommended size by the BPDA for Metro units. So in the close proximity to public transportation, we believe would qualify for that limitation. The structures that's on the property now will remain. Yeah, we intend and has some good bones. So we intend to reuse that existing structure and provide it meets all the. I'm just curious from the design point of view. It's not so much the zoning, why not take it down and have a whole system of that. We could. I think that the idea was to try to rework what was there. There is a slab that's presently existing for that provided it meets the integrity requirements. We can certainly reuse a portion of that building. How the plans are designed? Any questions for the board? Is there anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? I'm sure members of the board of the board of the committee from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We would like to go and record and support this proposal. They went through an extensive community process. So they presented to the Arihide Civic Association, which was already in favor during the Abadhas meetings. They talked about the parking and yes, most of the abadhas were okay. We know how in parking as a matter of fact, they're the ones who suggested it. So there were not there were not carcades. Also, this proposal is right around the corner from the wood island to stop. Thank you. Oh no. Anybody here just speak in opposition? Good afternoon Madam Chairman. I am a resident of East Boston. I live around the corner. And I'm going to speak in opposition that it's a proposal because of the density and the closeness to other structures. Thank you. So will you put your name and address on the record please? Excuse me? Can you please put your name and address on the record? Yes. My name is Anthony Geosa. I'm at 653 Saratoga Street. Thank you. Is anybody else here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion please? I have a motion please. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? In your desire will you? Make sure those grates come down. Calling BOA 666-3767 Hane Street. There are three companion cases. BOA 666-3789 Hane Street. BOA 666-379-11 Hane Street. BOA 666-381-13 Hane Street. This is for seven Hane Street. Directly single family, row house on the newly created 1100 square foot lot. The violation of Article 25, Section 5. No code complaint information was provided. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient area, setback. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, maximum allowed height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. This is for 11 Hane's, I'm sorry, 9 Hane. This is direct a single family row house on the newly created 950 square foot lot. The violation of Article 25, Section 5. No code complaint information has been provided. And an AE flood has its own. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 53, insufficient lot width. Article 53, insufficient lot frontage. Article 53, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, maximum allowed height has been exceeded. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient area, setback. This is for 11 Hane's Street. This is to erect a single family row house on the newly created 950 square foot lot. The violation of Article 25, Section 5. No code complaint information has been provided. Article 53, insufficient lot size. Article 53, insufficient lot frontage width. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient area, setback. Article 53, Section 9, excessive floor to area ratio. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. Article 53, Section 9, maximum allowed height has been exceeded. And Article 53, Section 9, insufficient side-doud setback. And this is for 13 Hane's Street. This is a combined parcels and subdivide to create four separate lots containing 875 square feet. 950 square feet, 950 square feet, and 1100 square feet. The violation of the Article 53, Section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 53, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 53, Section 9, insufficient open space. Article 53, Section 56, archery parking is insufficient. None has been proposed. Article 53, Section 9, lot frontages insufficient. And Article 53, Section 9, lot width is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Richard Lins, 1216, Bennington Street on behalf of the petitioner. With me is Wyatt Comeran, who is the principal of the entity that owns the property. He has also worked with the architect on the design of this project. Notwithstanding the lengthy list of violations that have been cited by the secretary, I believe this proposal is a little bit more or a little less complicated than what is presented to the Board. By way of just brief overview, our clients purchased a total of four lots, beginning with 13 Haines Street, 13 Haines Street, existing nonconforming single family dwelling. The three lots located to the right of that are each 1,000 square feet. And each of those lots in their own right would be buildable under Article 53 of the zoning code. This is a 3 F 2000 district, which provides that a minimum 1,000 square feet is required for single family dwelling. And therefore, each of these would be in compliance with the provisions of Article 53. However, in order to address a number of issues that came up during the community process, it was essential to assemble and redevide the lots into different sizes in order to accommodate a setback on the right side for the building furthest to the right of the property. Nevertheless, each property will accommodate a single family row house style dwelling, which is very consistent with the remaining buildings along Haines Street. One of the issues that was raised during the community process was the parking. Each of these will all be capable of at least one parking space, if not two, based upon the design that we're proposing. The neighborhood in this instance actually requested that we consider doing no parking for this project. We did not believe that was essential or at least not necessary, based upon the fact that we have adequate space located at that level. And also its proximity to the floodplain, which would eliminate or restrict severely the amount of habitable space that could be put at that level. In addition, we were asked to consider a number of mitigation measures for the surrounding kind of minimum association to the rear of this property as well as to the right. We've worked very closely with them very early on in this process. We've come to an agreement with them where we've memorialized that, when they've expressed their support to the mayor's office, that we've addressed a number of their concerns including landscaping, tree planting, and other measures that will certainly assist with softening the impacts from this project. We think it's a very modest proposal considering that many of these projects would likely see a multifamily type proposal for the site that was the specific request of the neighborhood that we consider doing single-family roadhouses. And this is the design that the neighborhood supported. We did have an opportunity to present this to the Jeffery's Point Neighbor Association. On multiple occasions, they voted overwhelmingly to support this proposal, and I provided a letter to the board relative to that. I'm happy to answer any questions on the design issues or the zoning relief that's necessary. What is happening at 13 Haynes? That is, well, how many square foot feet is that currently, as a lot size? So, seven Haynes is 13? 13 Haynes. Oh, 13 Haynes. Yes, that looks like it's an existing structure. So that's an icon forming roughly around 900 square feet or so, 859 square feet. So the subdivision includes it's taking land property, a land from 13 and redistributing it further to the other parcels. I think we've essentially taken all four lots and redistributed to make the width of the proposed townhouses or roadhouses. Consistent in size and then the provided three foot setback on the furthest, most right property. So there is a redistributed of all the lot lines, but it's form over substance at this point based upon our proposal for single families and each of the lots. How are the plans with the zoning? The drives are adequate. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support this proposal? Madam Chairman, this is the board of the athletic career from the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. We would like to go and record and support this application. They went through an extensive community process. They presented to the Jeffries Point neighborhood association, also their planning and zoning subcommittee. In addition, they made with the abouters numerous times during which they made design changes. And they have been working very closely with their direct abouters which is the land full condo association. And we only have to continue to work in regards to a landscape in and by frame. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There's anybody here to speak in opposition? They have a motion. Motion for approval with the big, big design review for all three addresses. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Thank you. My name is James. It's calling B-O-A-6470. 5161 late in three. Local contingent case. B-O-A-6470. 823163 late in three. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, this is the board by firm. We didn't work on this project years ago. No relationship. Thank you. This is directed fully sprinkled. This is directed fully sprinkled. New six unit residential building on a combined lot. For a new three family to be directed on the same lot, both buildings to share driveway and parking of 13 total spaces. Violation is article 53, section 57. Full board dwelling units on the same lot. Article 53, section 8. Use of regulations is forbidden. Article 53, section 9. Excessive FAR. Article 53, section 9. Number of stories allowed have been exceeded. Article 53, section 9. Instruction side yard. And Article 53, section 54. Screening and buffering. This is for 163 late in directed fully sprinkled. New three family house on a combined lot. New six unit residential building. We created on the same lot, both buildings to share driveway and parking. Violation, article 53, section 57. Toolmore dwelling units on the same lot. Article 53, section 8. Use of regulations is forbidden. Article 53, section 9. Excessive FAR. Article 53, section 9. Number of stories allowed have been exceeded. And Article 53, section 54. Screening and buffering. Even that, just for the record please. Morning Madam Chair, members of the board. Richard Lins, 1216, Beddington Street, East Boston. On behalf of the position, it was me, Tony Daly, a daily property who is the principal of the owner entity. Madam Chair, by way of brief history, this was before this board. Sometime back, which this board had approved. The same number of units on the same, pretty much the same setup. That variance had lapsed and there was no renewal ever requested. Mr. Daly is the new owner of this property and is essentially proceeding with the same concept that was the same. The same concept that was originally approved by this board. With the exception of adding additional parking, the original proposal proposed nine parking space. This proposal shows 13. This is located in the 2F 4000 district where the minimum lot size is 4000 square feet. As the board can see, there's a total of 12,000 square feet here. The idea is to combine those lots to create one single lot. For 12,000 square feet, proposed the nine units that are that are shown on the plan. The relief that's necessary, obviously, be based on a 2F 4000 would involve not only the use as multi-family, but multiple structures on a lot. But the Florida area ratio would be exceeded. In this case, the maximum was 0.8, we're at 0.876 based upon the square, the portage we're proposing, which is very consistent with a surrounding neighborhood. It points out that the, that side of the Leyden street is home to a number of multi-family dwellings, the architecture that we're proposing, and the style and design is very consistent with what exists on Leyden street present. In addition, the parking, although would require 15, almost 16 parking spaces, our proposal is to include 13. We did hear from the neighborhood that they'd actually asked us to consider reducing that if we could. We're happy to work with the neighborhood on doing that. We did take an opportunity to have, again, extensive community outreach with the RN Heights neighborhood, as well as direct debutters in this case, the direct debutters who are located at a lower grade along Ashley street, there are two specific properties involved. On our site plan, you can see a setback of about 15 feet. That is where the retaining wall will be located. One of the properties along Ashley street actually has their home setback very close to their rear property line. We've worked on an arrangement. We will provide them an easement to allow them exclusive use of that area. That essentially becomes their backyard that doesn't exist. We will provide the landscaping, seating, and drainage so that they will have the availability of some open space for their own property. We only require access to maintenance for the retaining wall and have agreed to certain concessions, including the type of fencing and landscaping that we would do around the property. This did go before the RN Heights Neighbor Council on three occasions. At their voting meeting, I believe back in October and November, they voted to support this proposal based upon the commitments that we've made to the abutters, as well as the design that we've agreed to. It's a spare footage of the entire law. 12,000. It's 12,000. It's a six-manly. Total spare footage of the units is 10,521, which comes out to about a .876 on the FAR. It's slightly above what the report will be allowed to. Break down and spare footage. Sure. On the six unit, each of those are two bedrooms, all around 1112,200 square feet. And then on the three unit, the range is from 1,000 to about 1,200 square feet. Again, all two bedrooms. And how is this different from the original proposal? Design-wise, it's the same. It's a six- and a three with a driveway separated in between the two buildings. The difference would be that the amount of parking space actually increased under this proposal. We're proposing only nine parking spaces originally. We're only proposing nine parking spaces originally. One per unit. This is now 13. How are the plans Mr. Ollock? I was drawing for it. Any questions from the board? Anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chairman, this is the board of credit career from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go and record and support this application. They were closely with the Orrin Heights Civic Association, and also with the Abodders. We ask that they continue to work with the rear of the Abodders on Ashley Street. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? So this, the BRA recommendations as Jeff had suggested earlier, our advice reached to this board as it has not gone to the full board review of the BRA board approval process. However, this recommendation is consistent with what was approved prior that parking be allowed for nine vehicles, that would be most appropriate, and would increase the potential for open space. Also, the recommendation is that the clients be submitted to design review and there will be no building code. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve the theory of design review. Second. And is that with no code building code relief and also for nine spaces? Yes. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries with those provisos. Thank you very much. Calling BOA667111-151-Liberpool Street. This is a raise in existing structure and build a new six-story residential dwelling. It will be 26 residential units with 36 parking spaces. The basement garage will be accessed access from a vehicle elevator. On the ground floor will be an additional garage parking and a portable dwelling unit floors 2 to 6 will be all residential. There will be a headhouse structure with a amenity gym in which will access a common roof to a level. The violation is Article 53, Section 12. Floor A ratio is excessive. Article 53, Section 12. The building height is excessive. Article 53, Section 12. The yard is insufficient. And Article 53, Section 56, our street parking is insufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Good afternoon, Madam Chair and Mr. Secretary, members of the board. My name is Tony LeChacy. I'm an attorney with the law firm of Rudolph Friedman, 92 State Street in Boston. Representing the petitioner with me to my right is my partner, law partner, John Rogers. To his right is James Christopher of the architectural firm, RCA. And to his right is John Hansen, John Hansen Landscape Architecture. This matter involves a project change with respect to the proposed redevelopment of the existing commercial building at 151 Liverpool Street in East Boston. Prior decision of the board granted relief, zoning relief to permit the construction rehabilitation of the existing building. And the construction of a three-story addition to the building, resulting in a five-story building with a height of 58 feet at roof level, containing 24 rental units with parking spaces on the first floor, including stock parking. The applicant acquired the property in March of 2016, investigated the prospects of constructing the project as originally approved due to structural and financial and related conditions. The petitioner determined that it was not commercially reasonable to construct a multi-story addition on that structure. And therefore, we proposed to demolish the existing building and construct a new building with a newly excavated basement for an additional parking level to levels of parking. And if I might correct the record, Mr. Secretary, it's 36 units, so I think you may say 26. No, it's a 37. Okay, sorry. So to account for the additional construction costs, the redevelopment would be with 12 additional units and one additional floor. But by constructing a new building, there is an opportunity to reduce some floor to ceiling height from the original proposal. So despite the additional floor, the height of the new building at the main roof level is down to 55 feet. And then there is an additional rooftop structure which gets us to the 64 feet height for that portion of the building. So can you please tell us what the, this has been for an article 80 process. That is correct. So please tell us what the bedroom, how many, how many ones, how many two, how many trees, what the average square foot is per unit per number of bedrooms. Sure. Are we referring to Mr. Christopher for that information? We have about six one bedroom units which range from 477 square feet to 605 square feet. Sorry, full 77 to 605. Correct. We have 28 two bedroom units which range from 627 square feet to 1200 and 7 square feet. And then we have two three bedroom units which, which both are 1,227 square feet. Okay. And how many affordables? We five affordables. Two of which will be accessible units as well. Accessible units. Okay. Now tell me why parking cannot be accommodated to meet the parking requirement. These are full parking spaces on the two levels which would allow for one parking space per unit because of the redesign of the entrance way. There will actually be, we're only having one curb cut instead of two. So we're reducing that which will provide some additional off street parking. But the floor area itself would allow for the 36 spaces, 18 per space. We're accessing them with an elevator so they won't be rampant. That maximizes the available parking. So what's your part on the zoning plan? We're the size of this building to two parking spaces per unit. Thank you for providing one. Righties and one. Plus no parking for the gym. The gym would just be an amenity for the residents and men's gym. Correct. Originally the building included stackable parking lips and with the redesign and raising the building, we're able to include the one elevator so that each parking space is a single space per unit. And with the elevator we're able to maximize the parking. We don't use any spaces for the ramp or to accommodate the travel. My concern is that, you know, this is a big building as a future development occurs. We're going to have a neighborhood with parking issues because it's, you know, because it's all cumulative. And so that is my basic concern is when you develop and comes through with that adequate parking. Tell us about the roof deck. The roof deck structure will be the gym facility with some rest room and storage facilities. It would also have a roof deck as well as a running track that goes around the roof. John, do you want to speak to that? Simply, I think we have some renderings. That just tapes, so speak up, please. Okay. John Henson, Lensky, architect on the project. The roof deck will consist of a variety of features. As Tony mentioned, there will be a jogging walking track around the perimeter, which we hope to have enclosed. That enclosure will be transparent. We have a seating closet area, which is flanked by planters, in which we have both shrub and tree material. And then between the closet area and the track, you've seen rendering a lighter green, that will be a grass-set area. So we've got seating, planting grass-setch, and running jogging track at the roof level. We're exploring the use of solar panels on the headhouses as well, the supplement power supply and built-in. But at this junky view, I'm not proposing you to close in that track. We are looking at having protection from the elements. But does that mean? But it wouldn't be an opaque enclosure. It would be transparent. It could have a right. In this proposal, it's not an open track at this point. Yeah, Mr. Pazani. In the future, if we were able to pursue it. Right, because that adds another flow. It adds high correct, right? It could potentially be done, but not above the headhouse level. How are the plans, Mr. Pazani? The rise of it. And the unit sizes, the blind bedrooms range from 470-605, 2 from 627 to 1207 and the three bedrooms. The sizes are adequate. How far is it from public transportation? It's close to blue line as well as plus lines. It's within one block of Maverick's square station. So, qualifies as transportation. Right, yes. So, when minimum would be 454-studio? Any questions from the board? Just on the design. The only access to the parking is the garage door to the right of the main entrance. Correct. And that's it. One entrance, one caracot. That's correct. Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm so glad I career from the mayor's office of neighborhood services. We're lucky we're recording support of this application. They went through a large community process in which they address the height by reducing ceiling height in some of the units. Also, the design. In addition, this proposal is within less than 10 minutes. Walk from the T-stop. It's also less than 15 minutes from the airport. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to be recorded in the support of this project. Thank you. Chair, members of the board of minor affairs representative, Carpenters. Any more light upon records of what are the spray? John Rock. I'm the business manager at East Boston Social Centers. Sixty-eightcentral square. We're a community center right across the street. We've been there since 1918. The developers have been talking to us every step of the way. They've been very helpful in addressing our concerns. And they've had a number of forms at our site. So we think they would be good neighbors and speak in support of it. Of the project. Thank you. Does anybody here to speak in opposition? We have a motion, please. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. With that proviso, you're all set. Thank you. I can imagine. Before we start on the 1130 cases, the rediscussions, we're going to take a five minute break and then we use this. What is you? Come on, come on. Come on. The board of appeal is back in session. We are not going to hear the rediscussions. We have the deferrals or withdrawals for the 1130 cases. Address, please. 188 Harvest Street, door chest and mass. Full of the record calling, BOA 651736188 Harvest Street. Name and address for the record, please. Lucia Mendez. What are you requesting? It's a wall that was too high. You're requesting a deferral for what purposes? I don't have all the documents needed. We asked the deferrals to make sure we didn't involve the direct press. Yeah, the chances of the cut. I just felt clarification. This was at the subcommittee meeting. It was consensus of the subcommittee that this should come to the full board. There are second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. There's a question for Flavian. What do you think you'd have that meeting? The agenda for the Thursday and the second. Okay. We can do March 28th. We can do March 28th. Okay. So we'll see you March 28th at 1130 here. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Andress, please. 61 Braintree Street. For the record calling, BOA 539624, 61 Braintree Street. Name and address for the record. Mike Marallo, Cleach and a love door, 89 Mabel Street, Stono Mass. And what are you requesting? I'm seeking a deferral to have more time to meet with the BAAIA. Have you met with them already? Yes. Okay. We have a motion. Motion to granted deferral. It's all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? The date, please. It won't be till April 11th. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals in with Dr. Aros? They're in number. I'm going to go call the first case. Calling BOA 566677296 North Beacon Street. This is replaced in an existing 24x64 two-sided billboard with a 14x48x2-sided electronic digital billboard. Violation Article 11, Section 7. Electronic signs. Article 51, Section 55. Signed regulations. Section 51 to 55. Bill Boards are forbidden. Namely, I'd just fill the record, please. Mike Morello, Cleach and a love door. 89 Mabel Street, Stono Mass. Will you be speaking? Madam Chair, member of the board. We're here seeking approval to convert an existing 20x60 double-sided static billboard to a 14x48 digital billboard. Now, is this the billboarder? Is it assigned to your business? Bill Board for outdoor advertising use? And this is going to be double-sided, and will there be public service messages on this, etc.? Yes. How are the plans, Mr. Bazzani? Dr. Aros. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Madam Chair, members of the board, Office of Neighborhood Services. We would like to go in record and support if they're entering into the BPDA license agreement. And what is the BPDA license agreement? Terrifying. So under Article 11 of the Zoning Code, Madam Chair, conditional use is only granted by the Court of Appeal. If the signed company enters into a license agreement with the BPDA, we'd like that to be carried forward because this has forbidden use. We'd like that to be one of the provisos on the condition of this approval as well. And thank you. Good afternoon. It's a requirement of the sale. It's your requirements will obtain a conditional use permit. As a forbidden use, there is no requirement for that. So we would like to attach this as a proviso if this board decides to approve this bill board. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Daniel Polanko, behalf of Councillor Mark Cielo, I would like to echo the mayor's office's remarks with the license agreement in place with the BPDA. I'd also like to say when we work in the provisos with the applicant. Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the board, Annabelle Gomes, and the Brighton Austin Improvement Association. We'd like to go and record and support as long as there is a licensing agreement with the BPDA. And I'd also like to express one other issue that I think that they've cleared up, but I was asked to mention it. It was that there be no advertisement of alcohol cigarettes or marijuana, which Claire Channell clearly said that. As long as there's a church, a school, or youth, or a park that within 500 feet there, there wouldn't be, which there is. So we're looking that there will be no advertisement of such. Annabelle, this is a process from those residential uses, right? No, so this is where electric avas and stars putting their puts. So actually, there isn't really any houses being affected by that right there. So it's actually probably the only location that's okay. Thank you. Is anybody here to speak in opposition? May I have a motion? Are you prepared to follow the policy that she may have? Yes. I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso that no alcohol, no tobacco, and no marijuana. Also, the proviso that says that you guys will enter an agreement with BPDA. A license agreement with them. Is there a second? All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. You're all set. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. This is billed in a 24x24 square foot, two car garage attached to the house in the main entrance overhead at 12x8 foot, with an exit door. This is garage has already been built. This is to legalize extended living space into the basement. Violation is Article 9, Section 1. Garage for a three family located in a two-have sub district, Article 9, Section 1. Extension of a 19 forming used to extend living space into the basement in a two-have sub district, Article 65, Section 9, insufficient front yard setback, Article 65, Section 9, insufficient side yard setback, the garage, Article 65, Section 9, insufficient open space, and Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAR, and basement. Amen, Adios, for the record, please. The notice does a very 9.31 street. This is a request for a 20x20 foot single garage. Yes, it is. Okay. And also extended living space into the basement. Okay, so hold on one minute. Okay, so I have to read a couple of cases into the record, because this was a project that seemed familiar to us. So, VCC, number 32, 365, was before this board until every 26, 2013. This was a request to extend living space into the basement and erect a garage. That time it was denied without prejudice. VCC, number 3, hold on. Without prejudice. Okay, and then VCC, number 33, 635. This case was heard on August, August, I can't read the writing. It looks like August 5th, 2014, which was a request to erect a 20x20 foot single garage. And that was, and that was denied, straight denial. So I just wanted to read that into the record, just so that it's clear. Okay, so please go ahead, tell us what's being proposed and tell us what's happened since the deferral. This time we're back. The first denial I was not involved. So please just tell us about this proposal. So, we're proposing to erect a garage and also do an extension to the basement. All of these have existed for many, many years. And the garage and the front that I'll address first, 91 has also the same exact garage and the front. So it's pretty much in harmony with the community. We've been through many, many processes through the community, the community did support it. Last time though, I did not go because it's been deferred twice. First to get that file to into the record. So I did not, but they, I believe this time they still resonate the same thing that they've said in many other community meetings that they do support the project. And they want to see the garage done as soon as possible. And the garage is not already constructed. Yes, ma'am. It's not constructed. It is constructed. It is constructed. Do you have a reduced copy of the photo of the garage? Yes, ma'am. They should be a plan they would look at the garage. I have a garage, but I don't have any photos. If I recall, is this a garage built right here? The same office that I have here. It's this. That's it. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. And I see one which is the next door has the same exact garage in front of it. That's getting it for many, many years. We don't know if that's legal, so we just vote pay attention to this proposal. Okay. So tell us about the extension of use into the basement. How many families is this? This is three families here and the only lives in the first unit. And the construction that's in the basement right at the moment is legal. Because the premises that they had used, what I SD, they had laundry. And basically storage room down in the basement. The storage rooms that are there is basically divided like a bedroom, prior to the owner buying the equipment. So he assumed that and he already had those permits there. So today he has it all day because section attendance that every time they go there, they have to see that. So he says his family has been growing. He has four kids and they want to be able to utilize that basement as further. The height of the basement meets the requirement. The size of the windows, the means of the grids, all those has been looked over and they all meet the requirement of... So is this a conversion from a three family to a four family? No, it is. No, just an extension from the first floor to the basement, extended living space. Okay, what will be in the basement? There will be two bedrooms, the fine two bedrooms. The boiler room is existing in the bathroom. Those are already all existing. So there will be no work that will be done in the basement. It's already done. And so where does this laundry and storage go? The laundry and storage will be exclusively just for the first floor and it is on the plan. So as you go down to the risk, from the risk is into the basement you walk in right into the laundry. And the second and third unit, what? So how many bedrooms in the first unit? The first unit is three bedrooms. Second unit. Three bedrooms also. Three bedrooms also. Okay, so already there are nine bedrooms in this building and then you're adding two more in the basement. Yes, me. How are the plans for this design? Memories to say at least, it looks as if the stair to the basement is the common stair of the building. It does not have the look or feel of a dedicated stair from the internal workings of the first floor unit. Is that correct? That unit does not submit any first floor plans. So I'm inferring that's what it has also. You have the boiler room for the total building within that unit. The boiler room is a common feature and cannot be contained within any individual. It has access to all the units as a unit. So I'm going to make a motion for denial. There's inadequate information that is presented to us to carry forth. And based on the history of this board having denied in the past and the owner is going ahead and building. I don't know why we denied. So I see that there's nothing that has changed in this for a waste of our time. Second, I'll take it. All right. On the next case, it's calling BOA577-85853 Sturbridge Street. There's a companion case, BOA577-851-55 Sturbridge Street. For 53 Sturbridge Street, this is directly three family dwelling on existing lot of 3,022 square feet as part of a subdivision with 55 Sturbridge Street and combined parking. In violations, Article 65, Section 8. Three family in a 2F6000 is forbidden. Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Lot Area. Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Lot Width. Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Lot Frontage. Article 65, Section 9, Access to Flood Air Ratio. Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Side Yad. And Article 65, Section 42.7. Narrow Side Yad for driveway. This is for 55 Sturbridge, subdivide and existing 6,624 square foot lot with lot into two lots, lot eight with an existing 2.5 story, three family basement storage, living area for a second and third floor. The lot area to have 3,600 square foot, lot A2 will be 3,022 square feet and will have a proposed three family parking for both lots. In violation, Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Lot Area. Article 65, Insufficient Lot Width. Article 65, Access to Flood Air Ratio. Article 65, Insufficient Lot Frontage. Article 65, Section 9, Insufficient Side Yad. And Article 65, Section 42.7. A Narrow Side Yad for driveway. Name and address for the record. Patrick Foley, 308 Victory Road, Quincy. So you're taking one lot, subdividing and creating two substantive lots, is that what it is? Yes. I'm joined here by Jacob Simmons from City Realty, and Arthur Chu from Chuak, architects. What we're here today is to subdivide the existing lot on 55 Sturbridge Street. Currently on 55 Sturbridge, this is the 2,805 square foot, 2.5 story, three family. The actual land is 6,644 square feet. After a lengthy community process for this project, we've had two of butters meetings, three community meetings, two meetings with the board, change in the drawings. We changed the original project from a three family to a two family to dedicate to conform with the existing neighborhood. The two family is 2,944 square feet. That's actually smaller than a two family at 47 Sturbridge Street, which is three. What's happening at 53 Sturbridge Street? 53 Sturbridge Street. We're looking to erect a two family home. So this is at 53, and what's the proposed square footage? The square footage of the two family home is 2,944 square feet. And the lot is still 3,022? Correct. Okay. What's happening at 55? 55 currently sits a three family. The three family is 2,805 square feet, and they're going to be subdividing the lot. So the three families are going to stay there. Okay. Now, and what is required by zoning as far as the lot size? What's the zoning district? It's a 2F6000 square foot zoning district, but down the street there's a six family already that's 6,249 square feet. We don't necessarily look at precedent. We look at the proposal before us. Okay. So please meet the case to us on this particular project. Okay. So this is a subdivision. So by right, this 6,000 square foot lock should only have a two family dwelling and they're proposing to have fighting that's on this lock. Correct. With two substandard locks with a lot of violations. Okay. Which we eliminated. We eliminated a few of them by changing the project from a three family to a two family. For instance, the three F is out with the now that it's a two family. We just the... Okay. Tell us about the side yard and the driveway. We'll provide the adequate parking use of the shared driveway down the middle. Okay. And how many parking spaces? Five total. And the staff that's required by zoning? Yes. How are the plans, Mr. Bessani? I'm not going to drive you radically. So this... So we're looking at... So on the existing building, how much... What will the side yard be on the existing building? Oh, sorry. Well, it's a combined line with the width of the... ...hold lot in the narrow side is one foot on the left side and 42 foot nine on the right side. So it's one foot between on the side yard and what's the zoning? And what's the zoning required? Ten feet. So it's one foot and this is through the subdivision? No, that's existing. Okay. Okay. The proposal. The proposal for 53 side yard is five foot one and one and one and half inch. Right. Okay. And you're quite there, can I? Yes. So basically you're taking a lot, cutting it in half, and then creating a shared driveway to double the density, basically, is the bottom line. Okay. Does anybody here to speak in support of this proposal? Is anybody here to speak in opposition? Madam Chairman, members of the Board with George Limer's Office of Neighborhood Services, a 20 folies correct, we did host a series of our butters meetings and civic meetings with Lower Mill Civic Association and the River Street Civic Association, and are in opposition of this proposed project. They will not grant zoning relief due to the density, the size of the project. In addition, there are concerns with the street already being a one way, being incredibly congested with traffic, though they did give options within the project for parking on the property residents are very much still concerned with the current project and all of the butters are opposing it's our office would like to go on record in opposition of this project. Thank you. Madam Chairman, members of the Board, Sean Cheedham, Councillor Andrea Campbell's office, we'd also like to go on record in opposition. Chairman is the board, Jessica, I guess it can't start large any site with George Slappes and she would also like to go on record in opposition. Good afternoon, my name is Ray Catchings and I'm a resident at 18 Sturbridge Street. I'd like to go on record in opposition, all of the butters that we represent for the River Street Civic Association opposed this project plain and simple. They are trying to build another house on what is a driveway and yard and that is not the fabric of our community. Hi, good morning, Madam Chairman, I'm the board, my name is Winfield Clark, I'm the media of butter, my property is 474 Sturbridge Street and I'm 100% against this project first because it's not a big enough, it's a part of a small piece of parking lot being used right now as 10th part and this project would be a bad idea for my neighborhood because we already have a huge problem of parking. I have a lot of people rocking my drive so thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. We may have a motion please. Motion with an eye on the straightener. Third. Second. All those in favor? Aye. This is Holy Bed and Life next time. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Paul DeCier calling BLA 618656607 E Second Street. The petitioner seeks determination and inspection service department and an initial permit. The permit was issued as an allowed use. Name it address for the record please. Can both parties do you speak the name and address in the record? Gene Kelly, 605 E Second Street. Adam Burns, 3305 E Street. Patrick Mahoney, Adam Torancy, and Sanders of 350 West Broadway. George Burns, and Attorney, and the business address of 350 West Broadway, so I'm lost. David Pascarolo, Pascarolo, 585 Demencharis Street, Boston. Okay so this case was here because the petitioner was seeking a determination that I asked the owner issuing a permit for ERT 560651 and the permit was issued as an allowed use. As a usual procedure we send the case to the law department seeking their opinion and the justification for their recommendation. This is subject to attorney Klein privilege. Based on that, the MMO and our analysis of this, the reasoning behind it, the determine that the inspection services department did not earn its issuance of it as a right permit for the construction of a single family row house at 607 E Second Street. So may I have a motion to that effect? I think the motion can carry on with the recommendation. May I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, we have one case that's pending. He's on his way. It's the last case of the small committee meeting for Sim Street. Oh yes. So I will read into the record for the hearing recommendations that we had on. I can go as slow as I can. On February 16th for the subcommittee. The first one. Case BOA 665-283-Hessner Street was a denial without prejudice. They withdrew. Case BOA 665-759-145-145-8 East Berkeley Street was deferred to the small board on 323. Case BOA 655-855-1500-Revest Street was a proposed exterior deck of 9 foot by 3 foot 6. Wood deck and a 3 foot 6 high railing iron fence escape and 580 square ballastres was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 658-675-1500-1500-H Street was a obtained a curb cut for an existing parking for two parking spaces. It was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 649-750-6700 Street was construction a new rear second floor addition and new roof deck over an existing first floor plan. In a single family dwelling was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 668-776-14-Hipock Avenue was to change occupancy to include a drive school use. There was no work to be done. It was traded out approval. Case BOA 647-41330 Brookfield Street was a first floor kitchen extension, a 12 by 5 second floor bathroom and addition of 16 by 5. Was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 669-263-11-Eleven Street was an expanded footprint and roof line was approved with BPDA. Case BOA 667-189-111-Eleven-Addington Road was a coport canopy on the side of a garage. It was referred to the full board on March 28th. BOA 649-732-219-Mantle on Road was a small 10 by 12 by 6 addition to an existing single family home and remodeling the existing master bath and bedroom was straight out approval. Case BOA 6267-2001-388-Pock Street was a 2 wood frame attached garage on the east side and the right side of the house facing the house. One story in the height of 24 by 24 with a flat roof was approved with BPDA. In the last case we're just waiting on the gentleman to show up so. Let's make a motion and all the previous cases that you've read. I make a motion to carry with the recommendation of the second figure right off. Second. All those in favor. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Yes. You're here. I know for 188 Harvard Street. The applicant is here requesting a deferral to get the information and the in place so it's been referred to March 28th. Okay. So we'll see you then because I know you have an interest in this. Okay. Now with some street we deferred this to today at 1130. It is now at the applicant's request specific request. It is now 115. It's by the same that he was confused when where he was supposed to appear. I can't really speak to that. I thought it was pretty clear but I see the end of there. He is on the way and has been quite some time. Stephanie called him and spoke to him about half an hour ago. Do we have the most recent plans? We do. We've helped introduce a lot of the laws. Mr. Bazzani, have you looked at the plans? No, I haven't. That's the updated refusal of the revised plans with the plan examers. Okay. Okay. The meantime we will break for 10 minutes and we will resume at 125. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We were awaiting the presence of the applicant for Kingston Street. Thank you. Thank you.