 you you you you miss Good morning, the City of Boston's owning Board of Appeal hearing for September 10, 2024 is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the Board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until March 2025. This hearing of the Board is being held remotely via the Zoom webinar event platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the Board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on the public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively un-muted when asked to comment. Other members' applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Panelists are strongly encouraged to keep their video on while presenting. As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments and opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Elected officials, representatives of elected officials, and members of the public. The chairman limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints required. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project that is those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen and the Zoom webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself, select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star 9 to raise and lower your hand. You must press star 6 to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state their name and address first and then provide your comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Sembridge reads their address into the record. Do not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting post will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Mr. Sembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Lanzia. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Langham. Good morning, Madam Chair. Pleasant. Good morning, Madam Chair. Pleasant. Good morning, Madam Chair. Pleasant. Good morning, Ms. Wewell. Good morning, Madam Chair. Pleasant. Good morning, Ms. Bedapuraza. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Collins. Good morning, Madam Chair. Pleasant. Good morning. Sorry, Caroline and I are waiting for Mr. Bedapuraza over. Did I? You should not put your speed. I'm checking on that right now for you. OK, thank you. I'm sure I don't think so because Stephanie asked me to fill in as well. Okay. Architecture. Thank you. So we are a six member board. With that, I will turn it over to Mr. Stembridge. Thank you, Madam Chair. We will begin with the approval of hearing minutes. These are four August 13th, August 22nd, and August 27th of this year. May we have a motion? I make a motion to prove the minutes that was right. May I have a second? Okay. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Lawrence, yes. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. That's the local one to get extension scheduled from 9.30 a.m. I'll be a moving all the extensions to the record. And then we will take the vote unless anyone has any questions. They can bring them all power. When I finish, first we have case B.O.A. 992 109. But the address is 24, and the street. And now that we have case B.O.A. 992. We have case B.O.A. 1352386. The address is 72, Park, hell. Any questions from the board? May I have a motion to grant the extensions as requested? Make a motion to grant the extensions as requested. Have a second. Second. Mr. Stepper. Yes. Mr. Lawrence, yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wiewel. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes, the motion carries. Next, we have a round wave. Round wave of conservation over with the case B.O.A. 992. This case B.O.A. 162, 72, 74, with the address of 344 Newbury Street. The applicant, they have to do with their representative. Are present. They're pleased to explain the case of the board. Yes. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board of 20 Ryan Gostor from the Democratic Wilti Miller, 28 State of Street, sweet 802, Boston S. On behalf of the appellate, with me this morning on the call as well as been Norton on behalf of the ownership in Richard Latini, who is the project engineer. This is an appeal, see from G.C. Relief in connection with installation of a new groundwater recharge system at the property located at 344 Newbury Street. The applicant has submitted the required no harm letter and the Boston Water and Silver Letter indicating that the new recharge system will have no negative impact upon groundwater levels in the area and is compliant with the city's requirements. We're certainly happy to answer any questions that you all might have this morning. Thank you. Is there some money on? Yes, Madam Chair. Good morning. Members of the board, Christian Seminelli, Boston, groundwater Trust, and we have goals to keep our letters from the applicant. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have a motion? I make a motion for the board. There's second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wu-Wao. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Move on to the hearing schedule for 9.30 a.m. Start. We have two companion cases. Case B.O.A. 160.0076. What's the other? One atom street along with that. We have case B.O.A. 160.008. Seven. Also what's the address of one atom street along with that? We have case B.O.A. 160.008. Seven. Also what's the address of one atom street? Yes. Mr. Altencant, what's the address of one atom street? Yes. Madam Mr. Timidishan, I'm the architect for the project. One atom street is a four-story single-family structure. What we would like to do is put a roof deck on. The build is currently 49 feet in change high. We have a height violation by adding to that with the roof deck. We're also within the Charlestown restricted roof district. That's why we need zoning relief. The building code issue comes from because it's a four-story structure. We're not allowed to put a hatch in, but the zoning won't allow our pantal. That's an automatic building code issue that always comes up on these. We've had a lately attended neighborhood meeting. We've been working with the neighbors all the way through the project. I believe we have six letters of support. And with that, I'll leave it to you in questions. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Here in the non-mayor public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, Siggy Johnson, Office of Neighborhood Services. This proponent has completed the OMS community process. Our office posted a no-butters meeting on the 18th of June, at which no concerns were raised. Our office has additionally received a letter of support signed by eight no-butters. We have a background we defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no way to stand at the moment. Will that be an out-of-the-motion? Madam Chair, I'll make a motion over approval with a provisor that the plan is submitted for a designer view with attention to ensuring that roof deck is not visible from the public right away, and including a reduction in overall roof deck size and further step back from the roof edge if necessary. Is there a second? A second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Ms. Wu-Woe. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes, yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Next, we have two more campaigning cases. First, this case be obeyed 160-4223 with the address of 13R North Avenue, along with that we have case be obeyed 160-224 with the address of 13R North Avenue. If the applicant can or the representative or president, would they please explain to the board? Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Mike Chopper, I'm the architect and representative of the owner of some own battle. The project ahead is another garage conversion, a detached garage conversion into an ADU. So I brought several of these for the board in the past, and it's still Matt Henson, the only neighborhood that allows for these types of conversions as a fright. This one's in Roxbury, and therefore we need to go to the zoning process. So this ADU would be a studio sized living space that's at the end of the driveway. It would include a small kitchen, bathroom, and no living and sleeping area. The garage footprint will remain the same. Aside from the exterior stare that we're adding on to the back that will allow access up to the roof, as well as a closet for the 13D sprinkler system to meet the Boston Fire Code compliance for detached ADUs that they released back in December. The utility will be all directly connected to the existing house. There will be no work done under the sidewalk or the streets as normal news. It's always been connected out to the streets where it will be designed and behaved as a detached ADU. The proposed project has gone through the community process. The owner has received six letters of support, which was sent over to the OMS rep. And so the providers and neighbors aren't supported the project as they've gone through the process. I'll pause there for any questions or comments. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none, may I have public testimony? Madam Chair, members of the board, the owner and the mayor's office of the neighborhood services. This time the mayor's office had to defer to the judgment of this board. As you're from the applicant's representation, there were six letters of support sent in from a butters. Our office had conducted a butters meeting on June 26th. There were no questions or concerns raised about meeting. From where I understand the applicant went on to meet with the Dudley Square neighborhood initiative on July 25th. The board had said that the association had no objections to the proposal. I run away from any concerns at that time and without the first of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Much I have no way to see it at the moment. Okay. Would that be a motion? I think I'm most sure for everyone we the providers that have not been called granted. No protocol relief. Thank you. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Rolanzia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Mr. Rolanz. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you, everybody. Next we have case B.O.A. 155-2298. With the address of 27 Dudley Street. If the applicant can handle what their representative present with it, please explain to the board. I'm Cameron Donkey. I just made him a panelist that might take him a second. Can you can you unmute yourself? I can't really talk about that. I'm sorry. I just took a little bit to activate my screen. Cameron Merrill 100 State Street Boston, Massachusetts on behalf of the applicant. I'll try to keep my remarks brief. Also, President Mark Lepler who can discuss the plans with you. This is a building that was allowed to be converted to a six unit building maybe two or three years ago. Since that time due to the unique nature of that kind of north rectangle or built unit there in yellow, they thought that that could better be separated into two different units one on each floor as opposed to an awkwardly shaped one unit that spanned both floors. In conjunction with the city's goals to add housing, we thought this was a great opportunity to do so. It will be one studio and one one bedroom resulting in seven units total. There's no exterior work required for this. It is all interior so those other violations which you see on the denial letter actually span from the first floor. Actually span from the original project of which the relief was already granted. They were just really issued because there is an alteration to the structure. The only active if you will violation is that we are going from six to seven units. There was a public process which you hear about. There was support with the proviso that if the unit is rented, the grant not exceed 80% AMI, which we will agree to as a proviso. Other than that, I will leave it to the board for questions if you may have any. Thank you. Any questions from the board? I have a question. Did you review the BPDA recommendation for this? I was not made aware that there was a plan for the department recommendation. There are some inconsistencies in the plan. If you go back to the floor plan, the proposed it looks like quite a few areas are designated as unit two. Those three kind of slate blue color that is all unit two. They actually recommended a deferral so that the plans could be reviewed adequately. Mr. Hampton, I see your hand is raised. Or is that Mr. Hampton? Yes, yes. Thank you Madam Chairman. This is board Jeff Hampton, City Boston Planning Department. You are exactly right, Mr. Mewel. We found the plans to be pretty confusing and we know that there is a basement area. There were no elevations sent in to show us any sort of ceiling items with a net basement even though it may be existing. We still didn't see any. So we would just ask for a short deferral so that we can get clarifying plans for this. No problem. Okay. What about? Caroline, do we have any dates? Yeah, we could do October 8th. Is that sufficient from Mr. Mewel and Mr. Hampton? Yes. Yeah, that's fine. Thank you, Madam Chair. Okay. Would that be an ammo motion? Motion to defer to October 8th. Is there a second? That's okay. Mr. Semberidge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes, ma'am. This way well. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair Moots, yes. Motion carries. See you then. Thank you very much. Next, we have case B.O.A. 159, 7959. What the address is 3336 Washington Street? Is the applicant and what their representative are present? Would they please explain to the board? Yes. Good morning. Thank you. My name is Lee Goodman. I'm here representing Steve Sullivan, the owner. I land by courte Tradungangol,ข Are you our part of the interest? Alma and Santa LLC. But the property is 336. Washington Street. It was a former Exodus bagels and Jamaican Plane on the corridor of Glen Road. Washington Street. The plan is to restore the existing storefront and build eight residential units above and around it. condominiums and the five smaller units in the front will be rental units. We went through a fairly extensive community process and Jamaica Plain multiple meetings held with ONS. We got a strong letter of support from the neighborhood association as well as a unanimous vote of support that you make a Plain neighborhood council zoning committee. Overall I think it was a pretty well attended and well received community process and project. You know I'm happy to answer any questions for the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Questions from the board? Hearing none, Mayor of Public testimony. Yes Madam Chair members of the board, Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office had referred to the judge from this board as you heard from the applicants. There were several excuse me two of others means that were held by ONS with some members of the public vocalizing their support. In others just having questions regarding the number of parking spaces, the construction time frame as well as potential shadows. The applicant was able to answer those questions. They went on to meet with the local neighborhood association and then also secure support from the Jamaica Plain neighborhood council without referring to the board at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Timian, Madam Chair, I have no way of standing at the moment. Okay. Any other questions from the board? Would that Mayor have a motion? I'd like to make a motion forward. I could do well with BBVA, have you? We planning the part of your. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langon. Yes. As we will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. The motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Next we have case B O A, one five eighties, two two four five, with the address of 50 to 52 towns and street. If the applicant and or the record then the president will explain to the board. Okay. Okay. I see. The hand is raised. I'm going to make you a panelist. You once again. Can you press accept when you see the panelist designation of hand on your screen and then you can unmute yourself. I need to start video. Hello. Yes, sir. We can hear you. Can you? Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yes. My name is Arja Shuse. As you can call me, share your like. I'm the owner of a three unit apartment building at 50 towns and street and a three unit apartment building at 52 towns and street rock slope. I see that before you today to request the mission to add a three bedroom unit at a backyard level basement space at 50 towns and street and a three bedroom unit apartment space at a backyard level. A basement space, I should say at 52 towns and street. As required by the city, we have contact notified our brothers, our platform at 85 of them and with no oppositions and we've also met with the community organization, gathered, passed and traveled the April Association, community communicated to them about our ambition and upon certain requests made by the board, we received their letter of support we should you should have in your own, your path is there. So I'm here to request the mission to continue working with the building apartment to bring this project to fruition. This is it for my presentation. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you. Just to confirm the work is all interior? Yes, ma'am. No, I'm actually wanting to know that the basement level will be expanded by four feet. Any questions from the board? Hearing none, ma'am, public testimony? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, we're honored to be with the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. It's time that the Mayor's Office would defer to the judgment of this board, ONS Hosts and the butters meeting May 6th. I was lightly attended. The applicant was able to address questions from one resident regarding if this would be for affordable housing. We did later receive one letter and an opposition to expressing concerns about proposed density and the potential competition for parking on the street. And as you heard from the applicant, they reached out on contact and met with the Garrison Trotter Name of the Association. With that, we'll defer to the board at this time. Thank you. And I'll try having no bruising hands. Okay, thank you. What's that? May I have a motion? I'll make a motion to approve no building code relief. May I have a second? Second. Mr. Stembridge? Yes. Mr. Valencia? Yes. Mr. Langham? Yes. Yes. Ms. We will. Yes. Mr. Collins? Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you very much. Next, we have case BOA 163 2317 with the address of 61 Lenten Street. If the applicant or the representative, will they please, by the case, report? I am. Hello, Madam Chair, Madam Speaker. This is Mike Ross returning for the applicant. We're going to request a deferral today. I received this relatively recently and we believe that we can make some minor modifications to the plan to reduce a couple of the violations. So we'd like to do that. Come back to the board. Okay. Cal, Cal and you have a date. We get you off to rate. It works. That. The patient? Yes, it is not true. Okay. May I have a motion? I make a motion to defer to defer to our activity. Okay. Okay. This is not rich. Yes. Mr. Lawrence. Yes. Mr. Lano. Yes. As we roll. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. Motion carries. See you then. Next. Next. Next. We have case. Be away. 157 6 0 0 157 5 6 0 0. The address of 214 more wells street. It's the applicant and or the representative. Well, they're pleased to explain the case. Thank you, Mr. Stembridge. Good morning, Madam Chair. Mr. Stembridge, Justin Burns on behalf of the applicant. We're actually going to request eight deferral today. We are currently speaking with the mayor's office of housing. We're writing the affordability component of this project as it is a yard sale property. We just need a little bit more time to get things wrapped up with them before we can bring this to the board. Okay. Caroline, we can do October 8th. Okay. You got a lot of October 8th, Caroline. And motion. Motion. What do you go? Motion to defer to October 8th. Now the second. Second. Mr. Stembridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langham. Yes. Miss. We will. Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes. Yes. Motion. Parents. See you then. Thank you very much. Next. We have case. Be away. 158 9 8 1 9 with the address of 133 to 135. Windfield Street. If the applicant and the windfield representative of the project will they please explain the case. Yes. Thank you. This is a diagram of the applicant and joint image orange mouse key architect. This is a three four property unit that is deeded as a two unit building. The proposal is to convert the third floor into the third unit. With that, we would put a fire escape off the back of the building for the third unit. That would be a one bedroom, one bathroom unit with the goal of adding additional rented property in the Torchister area. We met with the abutters as well as the neighborhood on this property. And so we're asking for zoning relief on this. Thank you. Thank you. Are there questions from the board? Hearing none. May I follow the testimony? Yes. The Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the mayors, office of neighborhood services. This is how the mayors offered to defer to the judgment of this board. When I said hosting a butters meeting on May 29th, a butters in attendance just had some questions regarding the potential length of the construction period as well as the resident requesting to work with the applicant in person. As you heard from my out of presentation, they went on to meet with the west of Washington neighborhood association in July. Unaware of any further concerns. This time with that will defer to the board. Thank you. The morning Madam Chair, members of the board, my name is Abdullah Baggett with office of city council via War El district four. In regards to one, uh, 3335 Wichfield Street, I have received letters of support from the west of Washington, Polish and would like to go on record. The council are willing to go on record and support of this project. Thank you. Thank you. And like no way seems like the moment. Okay, with that, may I have a motion? I can. Make a motion. Go through. May I have a second? I can. Mr. Stambridge. Yes. Mr. Valencia. Yes. Mr. Langmer. Yes. Is we well? Yes. Mr. Collins. Yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. And it looks like we are on break until the 11th year of parents. Wow. We do. We're going to take a shift. See you then.