 Good morning. The city of Boston zoning mode of appeal hearing for March 8th is now in session. This hearing is being conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the open meeting law, including the updated provisions enacted by the legislature last year. The new law allows the board to continue its practice of holding virtual hearings until July 15th, 2022. The hearing of this board is being held remotely via the Zoom Revenue Event Platform. This hearing is also being live streamed. In order to ensure this hearing of the board is open to the public, members of the public may access this hearing through telephone and video conferencing. The information for connecting to this hearing is listed on today's hearing agenda, which is posted on public notices page of the city's website, Boston.gov. Members of the public will enter the virtual hearing as attendees, which means you will not see yourself on the screen and you will be muted throughout unless administratively unmuted when asked to comment. Board members, applicants and their attorneys or representatives will participate in the hearing as panelists and they will appear alongside the presentation materials when speaking. Members are strongly encouraged to keep video on while presenting to the board. Can I have the next slide please? As with our in-person meetings, comments and support will be followed by comments in opposition. The order of comments is as follows. Members of the public, members of the public, the chair may limit the number of people called upon to offer comment and the time for commenting is time constraints required. For that reason, the board prefers to hear from members of the public who are most impacted by a project. That is, those individuals who live closest to the project. If you wish to comment on an appeal, please click the raise hand button along the bottom of your screen in the Zoom Webinar platform. Click it again and your hand should go down. When the host sees your hand, you will receive a request to unmute yourself. Select yes and you should be able to talk. If you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. You must press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Again, if you are connected to the hearing by telephone, please press star nine to raise and lower your hand. Press star six to unmute yourself after you receive the request from the host. Those called upon to comment will be asked to state your names and addresses first before they provide their comment. In the interest of time and to ensure that you have enough time to do so, please raise your hand as soon as Mr. Fortune reads the address into the record. If not raise your hand before the relevant address is called or the meeting host will not know to call on you at the appropriate time. Once you've put your name and address and stated your concerns or support of a project, please lower your hand immediately so that we can then move on to the next person. These instructions will be repeated throughout the hearing. So let me take a roll call. Let me make sure everybody's here. Mr. Fortune. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. O'Halley. I'm here. Good morning. Good morning. Ms. Dawn. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Rijiro. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning. Mr. Lageris. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Robinson. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Hampton from the BPDA. Good morning, Madam Chair. Don't sound so excited, Jeff. And I, before we start, I'd like to congratulate Ms. Ambassador Jessica on her acknowledgement. So, good job, Mr. Miller. So let us proceed with the agenda. May I hear from Mr. On the adoption of the electronic signature provision, please? Madam Chair, I want to call it into the record first, and then Mr. Brunel will speak on if anybody has any questions. This is the first order of business, the vote of the adoption of the electronic signature provisions of Mass General Laws Chapter 110G. Board will vote on whether to adopt provisions of Mass General Laws Chapter 110G, as required by landlord to allow those who receive relief from the board to register the board's decisions with the Suffolk County Registered deeds. Mr. Brunel, is there any questions? Does anybody have them? Yes, Mr. Brunel. Can you tell us how operationally this will be done and will it be done for all projects or is it optional? Yes, Madam Chair, that's what we've done for all projects. So, someone from the land court reached out to our office and basically said once we take this vote, I will write a big decision that you will assign a basically verifying or has adopted these provisions and it does have permission to do or have a regular practice is using electronic signatures for its decisions. That document will be reported with the land court and then all the citizens of the people who are registering will reference that document so that they don't be electronic signatures or valid. Okay, so I had a couple of questions because when we make a decision, our decisions are based on reviews of plans and consistency with plans. With these decisions, is there any way that we need to be more precise with our decisions? For example, if somebody has a roof deck of violation because they're proposing a roof deck and then through the process decide to eliminate that roof deck, do we need to go very specifically on record to say that that need for that that violation has been denied? Yes, Madam Chair, that's certainly helpful. We can always include a proviso saying that the decision doesn't grant a particular variance or additional use permit that it may find. So, but we do need to have that as part of the motion so that it is included in the decision. Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. Any other questions on the board? Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion motion motion motion. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Next start of the business of April. The hearing minutes of February 8, 2022. In February 15, the 2022, we need a motion. Motion approved. Madam Chair, motion approved. Second, all those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Okay, on the extension of the, I'm going to read after I ask. I'm going to read into the record and then read what it is in regards to the purpose. And then I'll ask for the applicant from the name of their address. Vice versa. The first extension is BOA 92819262 to 64 backstreet. Name an address for the record please. Morning, Madam Chair, members. George Morancy. I'm an attorney with the business address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Thank you, Mr. Morancy. Regarding 62 64 backstreet, the board originally granted this relief on February 7, 2020. So this is the applicant's first request for extension. Tolling applies to this relief with tolling the new expiration date for this relief is May 15, 2023. I recommend that the board confirm that they relief the main valve so that date for the record. Motion, please. The more, the more chair motion to confirm the relief remains valid with all applicable tolling through May 15, 2020. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? No. Following your next two cases for extension calling BOA 917588345 to 345 V Baker Street. Whereas companion case BOA 917579349 to 349A Baker Street. Name an address for the record please. George Morancy, I'm an attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. I give Mr. Morancy regards to 345, 345 V in 349, 349, a Baker Street. The board originally granted relief for these matters on February 26, 2019. And it granted the first extension of relief until March 15, 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary with tolling the originally relief remains valid until June 3, 2022. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that the relief remains valid until that date. The applicant now also request an additional extension until March 15, 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension if it determines that it is appropriate under the circumstances. Taken into account this would only be the applicant first necessary extension. Madam Chair, motion to confirm the relief remains valid through June 3, 2020. Second with all applicable tolling and further moved that relief be extended through March 15, 2023, which of course would include all applicable to. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Following the next extension calling B.O.A. 906-535-261 Bolton Street. Name and address for the record please. George Horansey, I'm in attorney with the business address of 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Thank you, Mr. Morancy regarding 261 Bolton Street. The board originally granted relief for these matters on February 26, 2019. And it granted its first extension of that relief until March 15, 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary. With tolling the original relief remains valid until June 3, 2022. I recommend that the board confirm for the record that the relief remains valid until that date. The applicant now also request an additional extension until March 15, 2023. I recommend that the board grant that additional extension if it determines that it is appropriate under the circumstances. Taken into account this would only be the applicant's first necessary extension. Motion to confirm the relief remains valid until June 3, 2022. And further moved to extend relief through March 15, 2023, including any and all applicable told. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Following the next case, following the OA10334704, Brain Tree Street. Name and address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, attorney, Matt Eckle, Greg O. At the Scana with the business address of a one-and-beacon street. Mr. Secretary, just so you know this case as well with the next five are all companion cases. I don't know if you want to read them into the record together. Yes, thank you, Mr. Eckle. We're going to ask that question, but it didn't show it being a companion. I'm sorry, I just wanted to double check with you. So the next five all the way to not great 92 maple. I'm sorry. Not including 92 maple. Right, that's being withdrawn. Correct. Okay, let me call all those in for the record then. Thank you very much for clarifying. The next case, companion cases, BOA1033345, 334 to 362 Cambridge Street. BOA103334741 Highgate Street. Case BOA103346816 Highgate Street. And case BOA103472, 8 to 12 Wilton Street. And BOA103346920 Brain Tree Street. So just bear with me because I'm going to call all these in for the record. Each one. Okay. We got in for Brain Tree Street. The board originally granted to relief on March 13, 2020. Tolling does not apply because this relief was not valid prior to the COVID-19 state of emergency. It began on March 12, 2020. This relief expires on March 13, 2020. The applicant now requests their first extension. I recommend that the board grant the additional extension if it determines the appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Ackel, just hold on a few seconds. They just want to make sure that these are all the same. And I believe they are. Direct me if I'm wrong. And the dates are all the same. They should all be the same. They were granted as one article. March 9, if the pleasure is for me to just, you got we accept that the purpose is the same for all of those addresses that were called into the record. Let's let's get emotion going. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Motion for one air extension. Mr. Giario, that would be my skirt. They did. We thought it would expire as a my skirt. In 2022. So you're. My. Yeah. I think we should evolve all 12. I mean, probably doesn't apply. All those in favor. All right. Any opposed? I'm voting carries. Madam chair, the next case of Maple Street is being withdrawn. So I'm going to call it to the record case. Be away. 826. 857. 92 Maple Street is being withdrawn. So I'll make a motion to deny it without prejudice. Second, Ligris. All those in favor. All right. Any opposed? Motion carries. Is Mr. Linson? I am attorney Lawrence. The. Lauren is Maverick Street and Geneva Street companion cases. I'm not companion cases. Okay. Thank you, Lauren. The next case calling. B.O.A. 10134-67555 Maverick Street. Name and address to the record, please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board of attorney, Lawrence, the Tino from Richard Linson's office. 245 Sumner Street and East Boston. Thank you. Regarding 255 Maverick Street, the board originally granted its relief on March 13th. 2020. Tolling does not apply because this relief was not valid prior to the COVID-19 state of emergency that began on March 10th of 2020. The relief expires on March 13th, 2022. The applicant now requests for their first extension. I recommend that the board grant the additional extension if it determines its appropriate under the circumstances. Any address to extend? Motion to extend. For one year from the date of expiration of relief through March 2nd, 2020. Is there a second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Regarding the next case, next case B.O.A. 10134-67510 Geneva Street. Name and address to the record, please. Attorney, Lawrence, the Tino from Richard Linson's office. 245 Sumner Street and East Boston. Thank you, Miss. I would like to make a quick answer. And I would like to reiterate, as I have just mentioned, the report has been released. The report has been released on March 13th, 2020. Tolling does not apply because this relief was not valid prior to the COVID-19 state of emergency that began on March 10th of 2020. This relief expires on March 13th of 2022. The applicant now requests their first extension. I recommend that the board grant the additional extension if it determines its appropriate for the data of expiration of relief through March 13th, 2020-3. Second. All those in favour? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. Calling the next case. Call the B.O.A. 982-435-198 Woodrow Avenue. Amen. Address to the record please. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Board of Attorney Derek Small and I'm a business-adjuster of 51-Dops and Road. Thank you, Mr. Small, regarding 198 Woodrow Avenue. The Board originally granted this relief on January 31st, 2020, so this is the applicant's first request for an extension. Tolling applies to this relief. With tolling, the new expiration date for this relief is May 8th of 2023. I recommend that the Board confirm for the relief that remains valid until they date for the record. There's too much to to confirm. Motion to confirm the relief remains valid through May 8th, 2023, with any and all applicable tolling. Oh, those in favour? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Calling the next case. Calling the B.O.A. 101-9011-22-24 Woodbuying Street. Name and address for the record, please. Again, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of Board of Attorney Derek Small. Business-adjuster of 51-Dops and Road. Thank you, Mr. Small, regarding 22-24 Woodbuying Street. The Board originally granted this relief on January 31st, 2020, so this is the applicant's first request for extension. Tolling applies to this relief. With tolling, the new expiration date for this relief is May 8th, 2023. I recommend that the Board confirm that relief remains valid until that date for the record. I'm sure motion to confirm the relief remains valid through May 8th, 2023, with any and all applicable to. Good. All those in favour? Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Call the last case for extensions. Calling the B.O.A. 853-78568-4 is street. Please. Is Miss Williams on? If we have a minute, can I ask a clarifying question from Mr. Grom? Oh, sorry. Is Miss Williams on? Is somebody here for this? Yes. Yes. Okay. Name an ad just to the record, please. Sixth-eighth. Sixth-eighth. Sixth-eighth. I have a board eight. Do you name? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Uniswaly. I'm sorry. The speaker is not that loud, so. That's okay. I got a voice through radio. Hopefully you can hand me okay. So this regarding 68 forestry. The Board originally granted relief for this matter on March 1st of 2019. And granted the first extension of relief until March 1st of 2022. However, that extension was unnecessary. With tolling, the original relief remains valid until June 6th of 2022. I recommend that the Board concurrent for the record the relief remains valid until that date. The applicant now also requests an additional extension until March 1st of 2023. I recommend that the Board grant that additional extension if it determines that it's appropriate under the circumstances. Yes. Taking into account that this would only be the applicant's first necessary extension. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Hold on. May I have a motion? Motion to confirm the relief from the main valid with many and all applicable tolling through June 6th 2022. And so further moved the relief shall remain valid for an additional period through March 1st, 2023. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay. Thank you. Yes. So please make sure that your project starts moving soon. Okay. Yes, thank you. Madam Chair, did you have a question from Mr. Brow? No, it's okay. Thank you. Okay. Following the next case. My board final, Abitur. Calling VOA 10160297773 to 75 pause wait street. The applicant seeks to continue the use premises for an open-air public parking lot for a fee. the capacity of two handicap parking spaces beyond the expiration date of December 31st of 2021. In conjunction with 1921 Lancaster Street and 3139 Lancaster Street, the violations Article six, section 03A, additional conditions in restricted parking district. Name and address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney David Gottlieb with a business address of 309, Washington Street and Brighton. It's the last before the board regarding the commercial parking lot on August 10th, 2021. And there was a notice of decision entered September 17th, granting two handicap parking spaces in one regular parking space. However, the issue with the plans and zoning division was that the advertisement only advertised for two handicap spaces. So they wanted me to come back before the board to make sure that there was an appropriate advertisement. Thank you. Has anybody seen the plans for this or anybody remember this? I'd like to just emphasize that before something it's put on the agenda is board final arbiter. We need to understand it beforehand. So pre-work is done already. So that we can just make sure it moves expeditiously. OK, so which is the specific spot that we are talking about? So Madam Chair, if you just look up at the plan, it's right there where it says 7375 Causeway Street clearly says two handicap in one regular. But it was only advertised on a two handicap spaces. OK, and did this include screening and buffering? And was there anything related to sign a John this one? I can't remember. No, everything was approved. Actually, if you look at the notice of decision which was entered, it was a straight approval for two years until December 31, 2023. That's all we're asking for here. But we just need to come back before you so that the plans and zoning division can issue us the appropriate permit with the correct capacity. Can we have a motion, please? Was there? I honestly cannot remember. Was there an issue with the angle? Was there a quest that? The issue was that you wanted a new plan with the appropriate numbering of the parking spaces, which we completed. And the plan was completed by the professional land surveyor and the architect at the board actually, Hansi, better Baraza, approved this plan. If you can look down at the plan, I don't know if you can go down the plan. Just let me just ask you, it looks like those two handicap spots as tandem is that true? Correct, with the required little spacing as required under the architectural access board. And the architect Tim Burke is here to speak on that. Honestly, for board final arbiter, just to make sure, Councillor, because you've been coming back and forth with board final arbiter a few times, we need to get the homework done before ahead of time, okay? So as far as Mr. Gosley is concerned, this is a note to stop that we should make sure that all work is done ahead of time. Okay, do we have any recommendation from BTD? Honestly, are they seeing this? Yes. So, BTD is that this plan is approved by BTD? Yes. Okay, may I have a motion? Oppositional approval. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you, Madam Chair. Calling an ex case for rediscussion. Calling B-O-A-128-094836 to 46 main street. This is a change of oxygen, a dry cleaner, ice-beam parking, takeout with four apartments and beauty pilots, the four apartments, beauty pilots and small retail shop with retail wine license. The violation of that equals 62, section 13. Lickestore is conditional use and an NS sub-discord. Aiman Addo for the record, please. Matthew DeLyle for 364-6 main street. I live at 50 Main Street. Scott Holmes is also on the call if you can be unmuted. I can't even go ahead and tell us what's being proposed. So, we have already begun a small retail pasta shop, which we've gone through the process with the health department and the building department to open that. And then now we are trying, we've went to the ABC Board to obtain the license and did our community outreach. So, you are proposing to add a liquor license to this address, right? A liquor store. Yes. So, give us details on that liquor store. Yes, it's just retail wine beer only. And it's just a small local shop that we're just selling. It's extremely small. Four or five hundred square feet or only selling beer in one. So, this is a part of a pasta store. Yes, so we have a small retail space for making home and pastas. And then we have a small area where selling sauces. So, this is really accessory to that main use of a pasta store. Correct. Okay. Do you have... Okay. How are the clients Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. No question. Very... What's quite small and straightforward. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak in support or in opposition of this proposal? Yes, good morning. Members of the board. I'm Kate Unsafe from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The proof is that he's on in our office to community meeting for this proposal. And the applicant where to the neighborhood throughout the process sends the board's deferral on this proposal. The city issued a temporary address permit for the applicant to sell beer and wine in the community has been supportive. But at this time, we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. We have a full meeting with the minister. We're going to go on work with the board. Madam Chair, I have no phrase hand at the moment. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have a few letters of support. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second? All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. I'm going to call the night 30 hands for deferrals or withdrawals. If you can give me the address first, please. I have 66. Thank you. Fuller, I call the V.O.A.127-939-0566. Third street. Name an address for the record. Turning my vote crown in with Dr. Dugong-Desgarle, Dean, the business address of 11 Beacon Street. And why are you requesting a deferral? We have resumitted plans with changes and they have yet to be re-reviewed by the special services department. Okay. May I have a motion, please? Motion to defer. May I ask board members, can you, can I just hear your voices in support or in deferral or in opposition of these motions, please? Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Fortune. Go ahead. Thank you, Madam Chair. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 930? 930 only. Hearing none, I'll go to the first case. Following B.O.A.128-657373 Webster Street. This is seeking to erect a one-story addition in Reddak and Renovate. The structure will remain a three-family dwelling and no change of occupancy. The violations, Article 27G, this is in the East Boston iPod. Article 53 Section 9 of the Holiday Ratio is excessive. Article 53 Section 9 of the Side Diadins is insufficient. Article 53 Section 52, Roost Recture Restriction. Article 53 Section 9 of the Bill of Hyde's Incessive and Stories. Article 53 Section 9 of the Bill of Hyde's Incessive and Feet. Article 53 Section 9 of the Use of Lovers Basics is insufficient. And Article 53 Section 9 of Ray Yad is insufficient. May I just further recognize it, please? Good morning. Once again, Madam Chair, members of the Board, Attorney Maddacle with Drigo and Tuscano, the business address of 11 Beacon Street in Boston. On behalf of Jessica Roberts and Erkond Barron, who own and reside at 73 Webster Street, they are also on this call. We also have Adam Glassman, the project architect on this call. As mentioned, we are seeking to erect a one-story addition with the rear deck, also to install a sprinkler system and fire alarm system. Just to go quickly through the floor plans. Currently, Unit 1 is a Bio-eval unit in the basement and the first floor. We are not proposing any changes to this unit. It will remain a one-bedroom two-bath unit. Moving up to the second floor is an existing two-bedroom, one-bath unit. We are proposing to rearrange kind of the functionality of this floor. It will remain a two-bedroom, but right now there's currently two bedrooms with essentially just a kitchen. What we are doing is renovating it to allow for two separate distinct bedrooms of the more of an open area kitchen living room to provide more living space. Moving up to the third and fourth floor, that will be proposed Unit 3. Unit 3 is already existing, but currently it just exists on the third floor. We are proposing to erect a one-story addition, which you can see there on the far right of your screen. This would allow for a open area living dining kitchen area and three bedrooms on floor three. We are also proposing a rear deck, which you can see again on the far right of your screen to provide some usable open living space up on that level. In terms of the violations that were read into the record, Deaking relief for FAR allowed is 1.0, we are proposing 2.8. Hight, you are allowed three stories and 35 feet. We are proposing that fourth story in approximately 39 feet. Side yard, we were cited even though we are attached. We are going to remain attached where we are and then go straight up. So we won't be extending the footprint at all. Same with the rear yard, we are not proposing any changes to the building footprint. So we are not altering the rear yard, and that rear addition is actually pulled in as you can see there with the deck. So we have a 26 foot rear setback. And then finally we were cited for open space, even though we are not changing the occupancy. And we are actually adding, as I mentioned, 165 square feet with that proposed rear deck. We were also cited for iPod and Roof Structure Restriction. So that all pause and take any questions or comments from the board. Yes, please tell us about the basement unit or the occupancy in the basement. Of course, Madam Chair. So we are not proposing any changes to that level right now. There is a one bedroom, one bath and a laundry area in the basement. With an interior stairway that goes up to the first floor, which provides the kitchen and living space for that unit. There is a full walkout, as you can see at the pop left of your screen, into a patio and backyard area. But again, we are not proposing any other changes. This is already existing and we are making the same. God, how are the plans for Sir Robinson? Plans are good. Correct. There is a walkout and the rooftop addition is consistent. There is other four-story building in there, and it is pulled back. No questions on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak and support of this proposal? Yes, good morning, Madam Chair. Members of board, Natalia, the needs of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. This project has had a positive feedback media buyers who will support it by the Jecker's point of hesitation. And they were happy that a family is able to stay in the neighborhood. At this time, our office would like to look for a judgment report. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of board, you may hear from City Councilor Liddy Edwards office. We would like to go on record and support this project. I have no way to answer the question. I will make a motion to a speech. Sorry, Mr. Chair, we do have a few letters to support. We are trying to get them. I will make a motion to support, to approve if you be a designer here. I will second here. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion, Erie. You are all set. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following the next case, calling VOA122795383-89, Devon Chia Street. This is a change of views to retail cannabis. Various types of cannabis are being utilized as handsomely as well as belongs to it. dialysis item eightes section five. varying of 670 demand based on haz弁ை services. Vibrance payments and found places forestreирован États staff. Exist cost� Health emissionрыta SD ad Moinn Street Austin. I am here to speak with the applicants, Kobe Evans, Kevin Hart, and their security consultant, Dan Lins. So let me clarify, this is not within 500 feet from the school, but you are within 2,640 feet from another cannabis establishment. That is correct. Okay, so tell us which which establishment that is. It is a quarter of a mile from 21 milliliters. Okay, and so tell us about the what is proposed for this site and how it's going to be operated. Sure. The site is approximately 7,000 square feet. It's based on two and a half levels. That will allow for the providing of an indoor waiting area. So there would be no queuing on the sidewalk. Retail operations and the indoor waiting room would be on the first floor. The other levels would just be used for administrative and staff only uses. It is currently a vacant commercial space. It's been vacant for a long time. The hours of operation, be 9 AM to 8 PM, and the applicant has been working for several months with the downtown bid to discuss lighting, camera uses, and operational procedures. So it's 9 to 8 how many days a week? Seven days a week. Seven days, okay. And I think we've had these applicants before this board so they should be more detailed on how queuing is supposed to occur, what the online activity is, and so we need to understand that. Perfect. Kobe, are you here to discuss that? Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. My name is Kobe Evans. We came before this board. Roughly two years ago when we opened our first location in Dorchester, Pure Waces, I know that the city is sensitive towards queuing on the sidewalk, especially in such a densely populated neighborhood. We chose this space because it had an abundance of area inside working with our architects. We've designed it in a way where we won't have any queuing issues with the external of the building. We will have more than enough space to queue people in line, coupled with online ordering. We don't anticipate any issues with any of our patrons being queued on the sidewalk. Again, this is 7,000 square feet, well more within the footprint of what we normally operate. But in the downtown area, it's very hard to find a landlord who's willing to rent to a cannabis operator. But based on that history, they're willing to take a chance with us. But with the excessive space, it does allow us for, to have people inside in an area that is climate controlled and also where they're not going to encumber any of the pedestrians on the sidewalk. Thank you. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I guess I had one question. I just couldn't quite figure out where loading and drop off was going to occur when I was reviewing this. You could just give me that question. Yes. So loading and drop off, there's a, so in the main door to the office building, right now there are two options. They could either come in through our main entry, which is on the corner of water and Devonshire or right on Devonshire. There's a main entrance into the building. And that hasn't an auxiliary door that would go into our space and right down into, right into our inventory room. So again, in the main entrance on Devonshire, Devonshire Street into the main building. That's where we would take deliveries off hours. Off hours means. So again, we're probably not going to open until after 10 o'clock. And so before 10 o'clock, when our staff is on site, we usually have staff that comes in at eight o'clock. So between eight of five and 10 o'clock, we would take deliveries. And I believe that building does have a security concierge, which we wanted to leverage, you know, for the purpose of taking deliveries as well. And I'm assuming you're saying this is eight a.m. to 10 a.m. That we would have staff there, but we would not be in operation. Okay, because I think it was represented that your hours of operation are nine to eight, seven days a week. So from what I understand in working with the State Cannabis Commission, hours of operation, I guess they define that in terms of when you are seeing customers versus when you can actually have people in the building. I'm not sure that there are any necessary restrictions on the state level of when you could be in the building, taking care of product and making sure that they're safe. So what we are asking is when will customers be allowed? Is that 10 o'clock to 8 p.m. then? Correct. Okay. Tell further questions on the plans. There does seem to be quite a bit of extra space for queuing off the street as well. Any questions from the board? Given that the policy around the half mile buffer on this curious why the opponents chose to select a site that was within that half mile, I guess you could say that the site chose us because of the downtown is actually not as big as we would like it to be and there is is a from where we understand this is a sober school on temple place. So when you look at the buffer for the sober school, it takes the vast majority of downtown out of play. And we really didn't want to try and you know of all things we'd rather try and be closer to another distance versus being closer to a sober high school. I understand the rationale. Just this keeps coming up again and again we have some conditions that have been imposed by the city and then we have some perfectly good reasons to ignore those conditions but that's what this involves is ignoring set of policies that was voted on and acted. If I may this is different than the other areas in that downtown crossing sees approximately 230,000 pedestrians each day. The other site that's within a quarter of a mile is about 900 square feet. There is no indoor waiting area. It may be started off as a medical site. No, we're very familiar with that and we're familiar with the one that's further on. I don't know if it's a friend street, it's closer to the garden was the first one we saw. So we are familiar with with the spots downtown. But you know going back to Mr. Ulrich's question is you know why here? Well why here is because this was available space that was not within the school. It provided for indoor queuing the downtown has an exponentially higher amount of foot traffic than a neighborhood. This wouldn't be clustered in a neighborhood nor is it near any vulnerable populations. In any community meeting or discussion we've had there has been no opposition. It's nearly impossible to find available space that is not your son form of a vulnerable population or face immunity opposition. So it's been a difficult but respectful balance that we have tried to maintain here. Additionally, when 21 military was approved the administration provided that they would not be shutting down the downtown to equity applicants. So please we we understand that but our our we we that we still have to get an answer and we still need to be comfortable with the answer as to why here and why within X number of feet from an existing existing space. Madam Chair, Madam Chair, if I might. Yes Mr. I think all the rationale that the applicants have before makes sense and I think these applicants are qualified applicants. The problem is that there is a city policy that that has a buffer zone and we either we either choose to ignore it or we abide by it and and it may be that it's a faulty policy very well made. But the problem is we keep getting presented with situations where there's a policy to exist and then and then there's a proposal to ignore it. I you know I have repeatedly said that this is a really I'm put us in a very unsatisfactory situation. But I do think it allows us to take it on a case by case basis because in in a certain way we are the only ones qualified to look at the big picture of what's happening around that with other kinds of fields we've seen not just cannabis related but other appeals. Mr. Rishiro did you have a comment? Yeah I think just real quickly on I mean the density of downtown is it's very different than a neighborhood so the buffer zone thing the applicants explanation doesn't make a lot of sense to me. My one question was about those windows on that beautiful facade there. Is there anything is there anything in the regulations that are going to affect those windows or are they going to remain like that? It's going to be that beautiful facade there. I just would hate to see them cover it up because of some regulation and just a question really. Yeah we spent a lot of times with our architect and as you can imagine you know this building is pre-war it's a very beautiful building we don't have to do much in terms of you know putting it into operations and so I think what in this picture here you'll see the have these these polycarbonate panels you're going to see if we can use the polycarbonate panels in front of the windows to obfuscate the view so you still get the light but you're you're you're retaining the architectural integrity and but at the same time you're meeting the CCC's requirement of people not being able to see the operations from the outside and so we're just trying to find the right mix that will satisfy the architecture as well as the CCC. Yeah that's on for us. So from the street you would just see blackout windows. The CCC regulations are pretty clear the state regulations you really you know that there's some wiggle room and they have deferred to the local municipality in terms of what they would like to see but you know in in in doorchester we we've made the windows opaque with a film and we're trying to find a happy medium between you know celebrating the architecture of the site but still adhering to the state's regulation. So is the regulation entire windows or at eye level coverage at eye level? So in in doorchester we have the windows at eye level are covered so if you're walking down the street but the wind there's another smaller window above that that we've done nothing too and so the the CCC will act we ask to local authority in terms of how the finished product is or how it's finally represented so there are exclusions to their own rules but we are trying to you know try and find some way to to not drastically change the look and feel of a building and we'll continue to work towards that as well. Any other questions? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Hi good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Chair and members of the Board. My name is Trulant Wong from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. We had done a community meeting for this applicant here on October 20 2021. We received letters of support for the applicants proposal along with letters of non-opposition. At this time we would like to defer to the judgment of the Board. Good morning, Madam Audition, members of the Board. I'm Akal Dera from Council President Ed's Lins office. Please join the councilor's centre of the letter of non-opposition to the cannabis board previously and to the Sony board this morning. The councilor has met the owner of this dispensary and understands that proponents have conduct a community process and make with neighbors and physical organizations. It should be noted that proponents, the proposed location is within the Hashma and Boxer's Stone of the X-16 dispensary. Here Oasis has another location on Gru-Hee Lab and was the first dispensary open in Boston. So the operators have experienced in the cannabis industry. Moreover, this is an echo with candidate which we advanced the city's goal in expanding equity and diversity in our cannabis industry. Thank you. I try to have no first hands at the morning. Madam Chair Secretary here. Sorry about that, Jessica. We do have letters that support as well. May I have a motion? Madam Chair, I agree. I agree, Mr. Earlic. I move to deny. I'm not compelled by this argument of this location has found itself. Is there a second? There is second to that motion. May I have another motion please? I'd like to make a motion to approve with the following providers for this applicant only. And BBDA designer view for those windows to try to keep them as transparent as possible, whether that includes building an interior wall to create a buffer or anything to not have those windows blacked out. I think that would be a real shame. I'll second that. All those in favour? Any opposed? I opposed. And I opposed not so much because I think it's a good proposal. I think I'm hoping that the City Council will reconsider the guidelines. Because we, as I said, it puts us in a difficult situation. So I'll oppose. I vote in support to the motion carries. I'm with you, Mark. I'm with you, Costa. But I do think that there are sudden circumstances in this, in the downtown that might meet this a workable opportunity. Well, in that case, the City Council should make an exception for on its buffer zone, which I would agree. Got it. Following the next case, calling DOA 128-0780-132-S9-3, this is directing a new four-story three-family with two parking spaces. The violation of the Article 25 Section 5, blood hazard district, Article 68, Section 33, Osprey Parkine loading, Article 68, Section 8, the political area ratio is excessive. Article 68, Section 8, the bill has assessment fee. Article 68, Section 8, the usable open spaces in sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, front yards in sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, side yards in sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the rail yard in sufficient. Article 68, Section 8, the additional lot area is in sufficient. Name an address for the record, please. Morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. Attorney Ryan Spitz of Council to Adams of Aranthes with the business address of 350 West Broadway, South Boston. With me today is Donnie Garrity, the architect from Osalvin Architectural, and then also with me today is the owner, Ryan McWire. As stated, this proposal is to erect a four-story three-family dwelling with two ground-level parking spaces. Each unit sizes will range from approximately 1183 square feet to 1247 square feet, and will consist of a two-bed, two-bath open floor plan kitchen, along with a dense lash-office nook and a small balcony for outdoor space. The height of the building will be 44 feet in height. As you can see from page 4 of the drawings, the roof line is consistent with that of the neighborhood in the street. As you can see there from the little brown sessions there, it actually will be lower than the three properties to the right of it. FAR here is being proposed at a 2.35 front yard is a three-foot setback, but which is consistent along with the property lines on this street as well. Side yard from the left of the property is one foot, and on the right of the property is a three-foot setback, and then the rear yard is an 11-foot setback. At this time, I'll open it up for any questions. And so, is there any roof deck proposed? No, there originally was a roof deck madam chair on there, but going through the community process, we removed the actual roof deck from the proposal and the plans. It's notated with the nest set of drawings that you do have. And I'm assuming that there is no occupancy in the lower level because of the flood house at this strength? Correct. So that is there. That's just going to be for the two-year, the two-car parking on that first ground level as well as mechanicals and as well as some trash recycling storage area. And tell us about the parking? So there's two parking spaces on this ground level, eight foot by 18 feet. And those are indoor? Outdoor, what are they? Indoor parking, madam chair. Okay. Okay. How's the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plants are good. No more questions. I do think it does extend further into the rear lot than some of the adjacent buildings, but I think the high end is consistent with the adjacent building as outlined by the proponent. No real questions about the proposal. Thanks. Any questions from the board? Mr. Spitz, how far is it talking about the rear yard? How far is the proposed building from the rear or a butter? From the rear or butter? I'm not quite sure. Maybe Donnie Gary, the architect who was logged online, he can give us a little bit more information. I know there's an 11 foot set back from the property lobby. We just want to know that the butter does not feel cramped. We've reached out, we've worked together with all the butter during the process. We have on record, we do have 14 letters of support from the butter's as well. Okay. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak, either in support or in opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm up to the board. Haley-Dalen-Miers office neighborhood services, like their attorney, who has been said to the do have letters of support. We've received no letters of opposition, but we would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Chair. Good morning, Madam Chair. I'm on the board and I call it on from Council President Flynn's office. The council would like to go on record in support based on feedback from neighbors and the city's sign-able association due to a good community process and compromises on both sides. Please come from the included. This compromises include a removal of roof decks to address quality of life concerns from the neighbors and civic groups which aim city sites to forward. We respectfully ask that the component continue to work closely with neighbors on an equality of life issues due to the construction phase. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. Madam Chair, sorry secretary here. We do have letters of support and we also have four letters of opposition. And what's the opposition based on? A size higher than the project, parking. Okay. May I have a motion please? Make a motion to approve of BPDA design or view. Sorry I can't take it. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you. On the next case, following B O A 127 9045 181 D screen. This is constructing new three-story single unit residential structure with first level garage. When I put print the 510 square feet, the violation is Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Launch Size, Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Launch Width, Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Launch Width, Frontage, Article 68, Section 8, S, Successive FAR, Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Open Space, Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Side Jet, Setback, Article 68, Section 8, Institutional Ray, Setback. Any of an address for the record? Hi Beth, A UI. Hi, yeah, follow me. Definitely Google on the Arctic for the project. So what we're proposing is a single family home on the lot. The owner lives next door at 177 P Street. And we have we're proposing one clock parking below. So the first floor is parking and canable stairs to upper floors. Second floor would have a kitchen with open space for living and then the stairs would go up to a third floor and the third floor would have two bedrooms with two bathrooms and a like a laundry closet. And what's the size of the occupancy, the occupancy of the two floors? Two floors, the total is 1258 square feet. And is it true this lot is 510 square feet? The lot is 715 square feet. And it's a separately plotted lot from anything else, right? Yes, this is an individual lot, yes. And so it's 715 square feet and it's been in existence so was it recently subdivided? No, it's been in existence. Okay, and this parking is proposed for the unit. Yes. Okay, any roof deck proposed or what's the open space? We did not propose a roof deck, I mean we could. The open space would be a small backyard, but we did not propose a roof deck. Okay, how would the plans Mr. Robinson? The plans are fine in terms of the proposal, no real issue with the scope, but I don't understand exactly how it's fitting in the site. The adjacent abutting property has a series of windows on it as well as it appears to be the second means of egress that dumps out right against this building. So I'm just not sure if there I understand exactly how it's all going to work together. Feels like we're really sliced, putting something in the very small space and I guess I just need to make sure I understand that relationship a little bit better. Mr. Maduke, Maduke will go ahead. Okay, so on the egress for the building next door, we have the same owner. Hold on one second, can you tell us which plan we should be looking at so we understand what page we should be looking at so we understand what's going on? You go up to the site plan. That one, the second sheet. That one, you can zoom in there, we're dread. Okay, so there is an easement which is on both pieces of property partially on 177 and partially on our property here 181. And what it is is the three foot passageway which is required for egress. So the door on the existing building that opens will go through that passageway. We are not encroaching on that three foot passageway, we are holding back from that. So that would be the egress for that property. And what was the other question, I'm sorry. Well, you don't show a curb cut in any of your plans or what's the street parking situation? We would be applying for a curb cut. Is there parking on the side of the street, on street parking? Yes, there is. Okay, and just clarification. So the total width of that easement is three feet. Yes. From wall to wall. Yes. Okay, wait, three feet on each property or three feet total. We have, we are holding our building off three feet. From the, so we are, if you look at the site plan there, we are I'm going to find the number here. Actually, we are one foot nine off the property line, our footprint. And then the rest of the three foot easement is on 177. It's a shared easement. If you look at the deeds, the easement is shared. And it's a three foot passageway which would allow the existing building to have its egress. So, okay, so on the ground floor, there's three feet, but on the upper floor, you're actually canna lever and even closer to those adjacent windows and that building. Yes, we are proposing to canna lever over a foot and 11 inches. I don't know the answer to this. So how does that affect there? Those windows, some of those, the windows are, I mean, the windows can remain. Our building has to be rated. So all that wall that's next to them would be end up being a two hour fire and wall. And some of those windows are within a stairwell. Okay. Excuse me, and that canna levered area. There's ultimately one foot total between the two buildings, correct? No, there's a total of, let me just get my camera clear on. Let's see. There's a total of three foot and then you would have one foot 11. Yeah, it's a foot and a half. So our building, they have on their side. So the passageway is three feet on our property sits 1.9. So they have 1.1 of passageway on their property. Okay. And then so 1.1 they have and then even with the canna lever, we're a half, half of a foot off of the property line. So they have a foot and a half from their building to our building. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions from the one? What is your audience saying? Is that a problem both in terms of code or not necessarily code violation, but just I mean, I don't, again, I'm not the architect of record for this. I think there is some issues here and I guess I just don't understand the resolution of it. From the state of point of what the proponent is offering. Well, let's get to the morning and in the meantime, if you could look at the BPD is recommendation. Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I would like to turn the board for this. Thank you. Good morning, Madame of the Sheriff's Office. I'm going on a call that comes from press, drags, blinks office. The councilor would like to go on record is support based on good community process and feedback from neighbors from the addition of this single family proposal to the community. They mean when well and the proponent has received a number of support letters, we respectfully ask that they continue to work closely with neighbors during the construction phase on inequality of life. Thank you. Madam Chair, the secretary here. We do have letters of support but we also have letters of opposition. Madam Chair, I do have a few right hands. I'll start with Kathy. You've been requested to be unmuted. Can you stage a name and address the record please? Hi Kathy. Yes, good morning Madame Chair and members of the board. I am. Can you say to name and address the letter, Kathy? Yes, Kathleen Maldowney. 183. 185 in the street. In a backyard which is 164 West 9, which is the back of this post building. So tell us, are you in support or are you in opposition? I'm very concerned. No, David, I have been in the neighbors for maybe 35 years. What he's building, a lot of the adults building on, I have the same lot on my side. So they have been open spaces and I have lived in my home 53 years. So I do have concerns. I didn't, I didn't call the architect asking for a call to explain the things like the exhaust system or where the drain into is going to go. Where things going to be put into my yard. This building is a small building which is why Mr. Davis has seven variances that he's asking for. I am concerned that the building is going to affect my property. Especially where Mr. Davis wants to come right up to both of my property lines. The side yard and the rear yard. Okay, thank you. Thank you. May I have the next person, Ms. Ambassador? Sorry, Bob Ryan, you've been on the other. Can you say to name and address for the marketplace? I'll go to the back. Madam Shelley, members of the board, Bob's and me go, Bob's and Trent, vacation department. And basically I'd like to be a policy of the parking design because there's only one parking space and it's parking on this side and it would require a curb cut which results in a private parking space and we never approved that. So we'd crush the night with the parking. Thank you. Okay, and Ryan, go ahead. Are you looking to get testimony here? Yep, good morning. Ryan, long one car history. I just want to go on wreck and support the project. It's a very reasonable proposal given the neighborhood. If anyone went on site and saw the neighborhood, this is a very low-key development compared to what's going on down there. And I, there's been an outstanding neighborhood to myself and a lot of people you know that's why he has a lot of letters of support. And I think it's important to note that the property next door, I don't know, it might be just a rumor but I heard it might be off the sale so there's something to note. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary here, I have to clarify it. Unfortunately, I looked at the wrong file. There was no no letters of support or opposition on this particular case. Excuse me. There's this 14 letters of support for this case. Hi, I'm sorry. This is Kelly Davis at 177 E Street apartment. Grace, I'm Bill Davis's daughter. We actually have no hold on, hold on. Mr. Ambassador, can you mute everybody because we are in a process of having a discussion with board members here? Okay, Mr. Hampton, please. Is there a BPDA recommendation? Thank you, Madam Chair. Jeff Hampton, senior zoning planner for BPDA. We recommend it to not without prejudice. A couple of issues. Bought to me, go already spoken to a couple of points where the entire front yard would now have to be a curb cut. We're not really sure whether or not the light pole would have to be moved. It's right close to the property line. We're not really sure if that has to be moved or not. We feel that the project is too dense and again touching on what Bob had mentioned. Now you're privatizing two one street parking spots to put a curb cut right there for only one car. So we're on the record is denial without prejudice. Thank you. Okay, given all of us all the information that we received, may I have a motion, please? Yeah, I'd like to make a motion for denial without prejudice. I agree with the BPDA analysis both in parking and the density of the building. Is there a second? Can't tell where you're going. I'll second that here. Oh, all those in favor. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. You guys just throw up 30. You're hearing. Excuse me. 49 units and you're going to deny this. You guys are a bunch of shampoos. Excuse me. Hi. This is Kelly Davis. Bill Davis's daughter. We didn't have an opportunity to speak to her. We please have a moment to speak. No, there's a motion. It's carried. We're done. May I have the next project? Please, Mr. Master very, very just for stock. Falling. I need to go into the tent that's now 1043. So I'm going to go to the 1030 hearings or any deferral. The RELTS, but 1030. You can get the secretary. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, I met Madam Chair. I, I opposed that motion. I wasn't able to, I wasn't able to speak in light of the noise. Okay, thank you. So for, for, to clarify for 181 East, East Street, there were six members. It's the port of the motion of denial without practice and one in opposition. Correct. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Mr., Mr. Fortune, please. 1030 cases. Yes, I called the 1030 hearings for any deferrals that withdraws. Any of the address first, please. Is, uh, Cantibary Street on 510 Cantibary Street? Well, they are requesting a deferral, Madam Chair. So I'll wait to see if they're here and then we'll go from that point. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to call the next case tonight. 30 calling BOA 121-0235-1111-1113 Washington Street. This is a change of art for two family and 16 lodges to two family dwelling in 18 lodges. The violation is Article 65, Section 41. Entrepreneur Parking is insufficient. In Article 9, Section 1, extension of an onconforming use. The amendment address will directly please. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Mark LaCasse, LaCasse Law, 75 Arlington Street in Boston, attorney for the property owner and the applicant. And with me is Brad Chambers, one of the principals of the owner. This is a proposal to expand the nonconforming use of this rooming house, this lodging house, which has been a lodging house since 1978. So it has a 44 year history at this address. Change the occupancy from a two family and 16 lodgers to a two family and 18 lodgers. So the net effect is that with some reconfiguration of the existing space in the interior of the building, we're adding two additional single room occupancies to increase the lodging occupancy from 16 to 18. The two bedroom apartments will remain at the ground floor on each side of the building. These are the floor plans. Hold on, I'm a still a pass. How long, so the 16 lodgers have been in place since 1978? Was there any intermediate requests for change from occupancy? No, the occupancy established as two family and 16 lodgers has been in place since 1978. 78. Okay, so tell us how it's proposed to accommodate the two additional lodgers. Yep, so again, some slight reconfiguration of existing rooms, but as shown on the plans, the basement level, which is a full walk-up condition on one side and large windows on all the other sides, there are six single room occupancies in the basement, two baths, a kitchen, and an activity room. On the ground level of the building are the two bedroom apartments and a small office for the on-site property manager and no single room occupancy on the ground floor. On the second floor of the building, there are eight rooms, two kitchens and two baths, and then on the third floor, there are four rooms, one kitchen, and one bath. So that brings the total to 18 rooms and the two two bedroom apartments of ground floor. This elevation is a good understanding of how essentially it looks like it's you know, two family, it reads as such what's left is right, so on the ground floor, the left hand side is a mirror image of the right hand side and that's where the two two bedroom apartments are. What are the sizes of the units? The two bedrooms? The two bedrooms are, Brad, do you have that? They're approximately 500 square feet each. Yeah. What's the bedroom sizes of the, of the, of the, the single occupancies? Yeah, a couple of yes oros. So the average is about 150, some are slightly smaller and some are larger than that. In terms of the zoning relief that is sought, one is a conditionally used permit for extension of the non-conforming use of the lodging house as a non-conforming use in the sub district, so we seek a conditionally used permit for that. We were cited for insufficient parking, however, the site plan does show that we have at least 11 parking spaces. Hold on to the cast, you know, we are really concerned about health welfare, etc. for residents. So tell us again how and where those two additional rooms are being proposed. Yep, Brad, could you chime in on that? Yes, I do. Thank you for here. Seeing us today. The 18 living rooms exist to date and that would be changed. We don't particularly know why it was so. Does a two families six in living rooms? We are not doing any movement of any walls to recreate the rooms they already exist as is today. What did happen? Okay, so you're looking to legalize it. Okay, thank you. Okay, hold on a minute. Mr. Robinson, are you comfortable or maybe I should ask you technically? The rooms and the basement, tell us about those. Yeah, so I did. I was a little nervous about that as well. Not super familiar with this location, but I did go by and you know the site is stepped down and the windows do appear to be full high windows. I'm obviously can't tell exactly the silter high condition, but you know, I think it's a well maintained property and it looks like, you know, so they're not really changing any configuration in terms of the smaller units. I didn't see any sort of cause for concern with this. Okay. And both, all second means, all means of egresses are not through units, right? Yes, Madam Chair, and we do have our current certificate of inspection from ISD as well as our current lodging house license from the licensing board and both are in place for the 16 lodgers in the two family units. Those are in place. Yeah, because we have seen second means of egresses through people's bedrooms. Okay, any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak? Either it's a board or in our position of this proposal. Yes, hello, all the dancing people here in the mayor's office and neighborhood services. This proposal went through an extensive community process. The brothers meeting was held by the mayor's office and neighborhood services. On November 8th, the applicant then met with the River Street Civic Association on January 13th, then also met with the the the River Street, the views me. Lower Mill Civic, Dante. The vote that I apologize. The Lower Mill Civic on February 15th, 2022 was a vote was shown by the butters and the associations. All questions concerned for addressed a no major opposition was our voice, the community process. I'm also there should be a support letter from the Lower Mill Civic Association. At the time, we would like to refer to the board for your judgment. Thank you so much. Morning Madam Chair, it's the board. Dustin Gardner, I'm perhaps to sit down with the Brown Whirl. We would like to own a recorded support. Madam Chair, secondary here we do have the letters that the mayor's office spoke of and a couple of other support letters. And Madam Chair, I have no raised hands at the moment. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? All those may work. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you so much. Following your next case, calling BLA126A3289 Falkwashgreet. This is a demolition of an existing deck and stays in the Rheade, constructing new three level deck and stays. The violation of Article 67, Section 9, side-dads and sufficient and Article 67, Section 9, the Rheade is in sufficient. May I address for the record please? Alison and Longstone Ellis, like our first three Rosalindale Mass. So please tell us what you're proposing? We're proposing that just basically more living space. So in the summertime we can enjoy some of the weather out there. We live on the second and the third floor so we're looking for three levels. Again, you know, we live on the second and the third floor so we're hoping to want to build a deck so we can enjoy some of the, yeah, this is. Oh, tell us is this a two family building? It's a two family building for sure. Okay, and tell us about the second and the third. Got it. Tell us about the dimensions of the decks. They go some 24.3 feet to 12 feet wide, 12 feet deep. So that's what it is. Both the neighbors on the side, the splines and the neighbors in the back. Longstone. I think I've got that. Tell us about the distance from the post in the rear to your property line. Oh, that's about seven feet from the, I think I think it's, I think it could be seven feet. I'm not sure on that one that's what's holding it upon that side and then on the side is three feet out of it. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. Actually, for the survey, it says the decks are 28 feet back from the rear property. Okay, but I was looking for the garage. I just thought. Oh, yeah. That's your garage. What you're looking at. You know what I'm saying? But we have the feet. Okay, hold on, hold on, sir. So Mr. Robinson, it's 28 feet from the rear property line. Correct. Yep. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Morning. Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Luizio Noji. I am the Rosindalee's on the Miners office. Allison Jackson, Ellis completed the community process. Yes, they had one letter of support from a direct butter and one letter of support from the closest neighbor association, which is the Longstone neighborhood association. And we would like to defer a different to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have that one letter from a neighbor. We don't have that other letter from on to them. Yeah, I think it came by email. Anybody else? Let's have a raise hands at the moment. May I have a motion? Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, column the last case. The 930, calling DOA 118 3174 103 to 105, hooker street. This is erecting new three family house, Red Decks, existing house three raised, a violation of Article 51, Section 56, R3 Fakins and sufficient, Article 51, Section 57.2, conformity with an existing building alignment, Article 51, Section 8, the use of the bid, Article 51, Section 9, the Florida Ratio is excessive, and Article 51, Section 9, the Bill of the United's excessive in store. May I have your address, Bill of the United Committee? Yes, please. So good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board, Attorney John Fogini, ten fourths room, Grinchon, on behalf of the applicant. I'll just run through briefly. 103 105, hooker street, Nostrad, the zoning in this tablehood is 2F 5000. The lot size is 5,650 square feet. The proposal is to build the new three family in the place when existing three families was destroyed by fire in August to 2,000, total money. We will provide full fire protection and then we will have four off-feet parking spaces located to the rear of the building through an existing curb tire. Touch on the violations, use, and amendment. Mr. Paul, Mr. Poo, Janie, so this building was destroyed by fire. How has it changed from the original building because that should have been allowed to be reconstructed as a right? Well, it's a great question. So the original building that was assessed as a three family by the city for, I think, about 20 years had a basement unit, Madam Chair. And as you all know, you know, here and before you guys all the time, you know, basement units now looked on fondly on by this ward. And as a result, they raised it to have three units in above grade. Okay, and tell us about those three units. The bed and the amount of size. Yes, unit one is three beds. They're all the same. They're all unit one, two, and three are all three beds, 1220 square feet. The basement's unfinished will have a half-bath and mobsink and mechanical is located in it. And although this does not affect zoning, we heard through the community process that the Davis were somewhat concerned about having a three-bed three bath type units. So we agreed to amend that to make it a two, but even again, it doesn't affect zoning, but there'll be two baths. We would suggest that that would be a proviso from this ward. And we're also signing a agreement not to rent out to undergraduates. Okay, I mean, that's an interesting thing because we have been seeing a huge number of baths going with these units. Okay, so there's no roof being proposed. And is it one of those units accessible? Yes, it is. And tell us about those decks, the rear decks. The rear decks are 12 by 6, so that's the back of the house. And tell us about the parking. So the parking is going to go to an existing curb cut in that of chair. Previously, there were three tandem spaces associated with the previous three family. So this will provide four parking spaces that will be in the rear of the building. Okay, how are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are fine. I think it does meet the cellular answer back. I think at first glance, it's a little different because it's a flat roof style in the rest of the street. It's a pitch-street, which was the existing building. So I think it feels a little bit bigger, but I think in terms of the proposed, I think it'll work with the street. So no real questions on the proposal. Any questions from the board? Is anything? Yeah, yeah, I just, I got a question. I just curious, why didn't the architect go with like a pitch-root for dormant to try to keep it somewhat the same? Because it is very different. Then the rest of the house is on the street. Yeah, Mr. J, that's a good question. I mean, we're at 31 feet, so through design review, we could possibly correct that. And this will be seven to two feet. Yeah, I was, I was going to ask the same question. And this goes through here. The, the footprint is, is identical? I'm no as bigger. It's a little, the building is pushed back. The previous building was closer to the street, and it's pushed back a little bit on the rear side of it. But again, we have no very eye violation. Anything like that? We were marginal FAR violations, so it's a bit difficult. It was also a three-file incident. Okay. I want to agree with Mr, with Mr. Regieros, Colin. Is anybody here to speak either and support our opposition of this proposal? Madam Chair, I'm Mr. the board, Fauna Newman with the Mayor's Office and the Board of Services. This time, the Mayor's Office selected for a judgment to the board. Back on information on the community process, Mayor's Office held a butter's meeting on June 2nd. Since then, we were steeped. A 27-letter support, the majority of which are from the immediate north-Aulston neighborhood, as well as the island letters and opposition, citing concerns about the density on the dead end portion of poker, as well as concerns about the architectural features not fitting in with the existing characteristics of other homes on the street. They also went to the All-Synchic Association, and through that process, made reductions in the proposed bathroom count, and also pledged to not ramps to undergraduate students. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have those letters that Mr. Newman spoke of in the Mayor's Office. Support in opposition. Thank you. And, Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands here. I'll start with Mary. You've been unmuted. Can you stick to me? I'll put it in the lower hand. Is that, oh, Mary, can you, we look at a good testimony here? Second. Sorry. I just am muted. Yeah, my name is Maryano Loclan. I live at 106 108 Hocus-Tree, where I'm the owner. I'm exactly opposite the property that is developed for which the development is being proposed. I oppose this proposal because there's really no reason to have any variants, as I believe, to replace or rebuild a perfectly profitable building in the place of the one that was there. And, oh, my biggest concern, which I share with the other people from the street, is actually the traffic. We have a lovely little park at the end of the street. It's a dead end street. We have many children that come up and down the street to enjoy the park. We already have residential parking, which is full on the street. So, adding all of these cars, which is potentially with the nine bedrooms, nine more cars or even 18 more cars, this presents the danger for the neighborhood. And, again, for the aesthetics, it seems a shame to put up a building that is completely incompatible with the architecture of the street. There are only five, it's sorry, nine buildings on the street. All the rest of them are pitch roofs with porches. Thank you. Can I ask the other people who have raised hands, we're going to give testimony to please give us new information? Either in support or in opposition, please go ahead. Okay, Anthony, sorry, go ahead. Yes, good morning Madam Chair and members of the Board. Tony Dizador representing the Austin Civic Association. In terms of our membership, the proponents were very responsive to the concerns raised early on in the community review process. They have pretty much done everything that was asked of them. Yes, the architectural issue was raised about how the new building would assimilate into the existing neighborhood, but basically on balance the ACA's in support of this project. Thank you. You have a panelist. John, are you looking to give testimony here? I see your hand is raised. Yes, I think that's me. Okay, yep. Okay, so what else that I have no additional raise things. Let's see, Mr. Hampton. Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Would you recommend approval with design review? Okay, thank you. Yes, we did. Sorry about that. No worries. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion to approve what heavy BP data's on review on the roof and try and make this a pitch roof to look like the rest of the street. Is there a second? Okay, I can't really group this. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you very much. Madam Chair, would you like me to go right to the 1030? Oh, let's see, it's 1105. Let's take a 10 minute break and we can be in at 1115. Very well. Thank you. Recording stopped. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to call this for anybody who wasn't on the call. 1030, any deferrals that would grow to the 1030 cases? Give me the address first, please. Let's see, Mr. Green has put a number of notes in the... Is this 510, Canterbury? Madam Chair. It looks like it has...yes. Yes, he has what he's requesting under for. Okay, so I'm going to call it for the Recate. Call in case BOA 1215510510, Canterbury Street. May I have a motion for deferral? I'll make a motion in the parole. Is there a second? I can...all those in favor? Hi. Are any opposed? The date, please? They'll have...he has the last date on April 5th at 1130. We're now into... I'm sorry, tail end of April and then into May. So, April 5th at 1130. I'm assuming that's enough time, but let's...yes, let's do that. Okay. Okay. I take it, there are no other withdrawals or deferrals for the 1030. I'll go right to the first two cases, calling BOA 12825714 Holyoke Street. There is a companion case for building code, case BOA 1282563414 Holyoke Street. This is to add two 10-ampotting spaces at a deck, balcony, at the rear of the third floor and roof deck, and related access hatch. The violation of Article 64, Section 36, Office of Pre-Focusing and Loading. Article 64, Section 9.4, Tom Houss, Roadhouse, Extension. And this is for the building code. This is the 9th edition 780 CMR 1011 Staleway, 1011.12.2 roof access. We're a Staleway that's provided to a roof. Access to that roof shall be provided through a 10-tell's complaint with Section 1510.2 point. Madam Chair, I do have a letter here from Boston Water and Sewer, but it's not a violation, so I don't know if Christian was on, maybe you could clarify for us. But naming address for the record please. Mr. Hassan on. What's up with you guys, Phil Holio? Don't see the note once I hear the hand raised. Is it Pedro Lucas? One second. Hi, Pedro Lucas, are you here for this proposal? Yes, I am. Okay, go ahead. Good morning, Madam Chair, members of the board. My name is Pedro Lucas. From Zephyr Architects, address 315A Street. We are sorry, let me just join you. You must. Mr. Lucas, the first thing we usually do is address the building code violation. So can you please speak to that? How is access proposed to be provided to the roof? Mr. Lucas, are you still on? Yes, sorry. Sorry, I had some technical difficulties there. Let me start over. So we are here requesting a zoning variance for the rear deck and a building code variance for a refaxes hatch. The rear deck will project six feet from the building and follows the shape of the rear base. You might not have heard me, but usually we look at the building code violation first. Okay. Are you confirming for the record that you are proposing access to the roof deck through a hatch? Yes. Okay. May I have a motion, please? I'll make a motion to approve. Is there a second? A second. All those in favor? Any opposed? Motion carries. Okay. So let's go to the tandem parking and the balconies. Please tell us about what's being proposed. Thank you Madam Chair. So we are proposing a rear deck that will project six feet from the building. It follows the shape of the rear bay. It will be accessible to unit two off of the partner level kitchen. Additionally, as you've mentioned, we've been cited with a design and maneuverability of the pilot due to the two tandem parking spots. Through our discussions with the neighborhood, we will not be requesting or requiring a variance for the two additional tandem spots. We are proposing to replace those with additional green space for unit one. Okay. So the tandem parking is off. Okay. And then tell us about the roof deck. What is the dimension of the roof deck and is it visible from the street? The roof deck is not visible from the street. Let me pull the dimensions of that right now. Okay. The roof deck is 350 square feet. Okay. And tell us how the balconies will be attached to the building. We will be attaching those with the ledger on. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plants are good. The balcony is bracket attached. And there is an updated set of plans that do show the removal of the tandem parking and the introduction of a landscape area of popper between the sort of lower level patio space and that first set of parking spots. But no questions for me. Any other questions from the board? Yes. I'm good morning, Madam Chair and members of the board. I can presale from the Mayor's Office of the Public Health Services. Our office holds the button's meeting where support was shown by the others. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, we do have a few letters of support. What? No, I don't have a little hand. What a can. You've been unmuted. Can you say to name an address for the record? Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Hello. Good morning. A board. Thank you very much. I appreciate your holding these hearings by Zoom because it's possible for some of us to attend. It might otherwise have a hard time doing so. And I think that we're trying to, the neighbors are trying to learn how to manipulate your system so that we can actually report and I appreciate the fact that you're doing that. Madam, may you get a better, had number 12 Holyoke Street. I've lived there for 56 years. I have found the developer to be quite cooperative and thoughtful about the work that you've explored in me. So I want to mention appreciation for that. The support is conditional upon the removal of the application for the extra two spaces. And so since he has clearly stated that, that's included in the plans and the way you will be approving the roof deck and the balcony. I give full support to the proposal that you receive without the two. And can you put your name and address on the record place? Yeah. I'm just kind of a crook of myer. Now it's also news number 12 Holyoke Street plus the Massachusetts. Thank you. Okay. Okay. May I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with the proviso that there is only two parking space that provided in the tandem parking violation will be denied. Okay. Is there a second? Yes. I can. All those in favor? Hi. Hi. Any opposed? Motion carries. You were all set. Good luck. Thank you. Following the next two cases calling B O A 1290222 7 City Point Court. There's a companion case B O A 1290228 9 City Point Court. This is for 7 City Point Court. You're acting new attached for story 4 residential building on a subdivided lot. Violation Article 68 Section 33 Austrian parking climate. Article 68 Section 34.1 conformer with an existing building alignment. Article 68 Section 8. A fluide erasure was excessive. Article 68 Section 8 used open spaces in sufficient. Article 68 Section 8 to side gathers in sufficient. Article 68 Section 8 to radiates in sufficient. And Article 68 Section 8, the additional lot period is in sufficient. This is for 9 City Point Court. Combine 9 City Point Court with 7 City Point Court. And resub-divide proposed 9 City Point Court to contain 1,181 square feet. And 7 City Point Court to contain 2,382 square feet. 0.5 square feet. To change use from three family to a two family. Violations Article 68 Section 35. 9 conforming with dimensional regulations. Article 68 Section 8 to ploy erasure was excessive. Article 68 Section 8 to usable open spaces in sufficient. Article 68 Section 8 to side gathers in sufficient. Article 68 Section 8 to a lot of areas in sufficient. And Article 68 Section 8, the additional lot period is in sufficient. Name an address for the record please. Good morning Madam Chair and Members of the Board. My name is George Moranse. I'm an attorney with the Business Address 350 West Broadway in South Boston. Madam Chair and Members, I represent Peter and Kelly Liden of the Owners of the Property who also reside at 11 City Point Court. What is being proposed here is to take down a small connected colonial style building with two units at 7-9 City Point Court and replace it with a new four-story four-family building. For net increase two units over existing. With the subdivision and reconsolidation, the lot size here would be 2,382 square feet. No off-street parking would be provided only to site conditions and the desire to keep the building at a zoning compliant 40-foot height. FAR would be 3.37. The building would consist of four floor-through units. Unit one would be a two-bedroom unit and units two, three, and four would each be three-bedroom units. All units would be approximately 1100 square feet. Unit one would have a family room space in the basement but no bedrooms, but it would still include two window well egress points, as well as a lift to provide family room access for anyone with the disability living in that unit. There's no roof deck or decks private or otherwise. A headhouse is shown on the plans for roof access, but as I say the roof would be unoccupied and I of course understand this board's position on headhouses. Would that I'll stop and take any questions that any members may have? So I'm still trying to understand so at seven, so how many units at seven and not? Is it a total of four plus two or is it a total of four units? It's a little bit confusing. I admit the way that the refusal letters are written. The best way to understand it is there's an existing four-story building where my clients lived. I was two units in it at 11 city point court. That building is connected to seven and nine, specifically it's connected to nine city point court. And because it's connected and sitting on a single loss, that building has a legal occupancy of three units. Two in the building there are in on the right, two units in that, two by level units where my clients lived, and then the blue building which is connected to it, is one two side by side units. So the new building is actually legally combined with the blue unit on its right. That whole blue building will be demolished. So that occupancy of three units includes one unit in the building to be demolished. So that three family, legal three family, it comes to two family because it has only two units. Then the smaller blue building, the colonial style with the picture roof, that is to be demolished. There's a sub-privileged reconsolidation of the lots so that the existing building will sit on its own lot. The new building which would replace these two side by side units would be a four-unit building. So if you were to think of it, it's simply knocking down the two units in the blue building. That becomes a four-story four-family. Nothing changes to the building in the background, which is a four-unit, sorry, a four-story two family. I'm still confused. So I see two blue buildings. So yeah, so this is blue here, I guess. And I see a truck in there. So basically, what's happening to the space where the truck is? Is that going? No, that is remaining. So there are two if we go back up to that view down to the point court. I'll try to explain a little bit better. There are two blue buildings. Each one of them has two units. Okay, who is running the slides today? Can you please, yes, please back up to this. Right. Excellent. There's a two-story building in the immediate foreground to the right. Nothing is changing there. Nothing is changing in that area where the truck is parked, which is parking for somebody else. In the back, there is basically an identical blue building. That is actually two units. That is to be demolished and in its place and on that footprint is to be erected and do four unit building. So basically, those two units at two stories go to four unit building at four stories, which will match the building in the background, which is where my clients currently live. And that small side projection that decked that is projecting off the right side of that building would of course be removed because the building is going up, you know, connected to the building on the left. So again, the building in the rear, two units, four stories, the new building, four units, four stories on the seven in nine city point court law, plus a little bit of the 11 city point court law where it's connected. So the lot size here becomes 2,382 square feet. So the beige building in the background will be connected to the building that's supposed to be demolished for a total of combined total of four units. Four units where the blue building currently stands. The only thing that's happening in the beige building in the rear where my clients live is they will be, you know, losing some of the, you know, their walk out deck on the side that will be taken off to allow for the new structure to go up. Occupancy in that building is remaining as is as two families. So the only building that's changing is the blue building in the background. Okay. And then what is the distance between the proposed blue building and the beige building? They'll be connected. So wall openings would be closed because they are connected. They are basically connected now because that is the title of the claim that the unit on the left of that blue building is actually legally part of the beige building, which is why one of the refusal that it says change our activity from a tree to a two. Once that blue building is demolished then that existing two unit buildings just get the legal occupancy as a two F and, you know, the balcony has to be closed in those windows closed. And again, that's where my clients live so they're fully aware of that impact. So for all the tents and purposes then the bulk of the issue, the project that we're looking at then is seven city point court for four units. And this is- Correct five dash seven. Sorry to interrupt five dash seven. Okay. And the zoning district is an MFR so the use is permitted. Correct. And then I'm assuming that everything calls out conforming with building code with modal. How is useable open space going to be provided? There's no roof deck for, you know, reasons I think are clear to the board. Not something that's particularly popular. This in self-locking this location, this is the old East first street. So one block up is key street and then is marine park. So there's a abundant open space between marine park and castle island with an easy walking distance as well as green belt roadway of a day boulevard. And in terms of height and matching the proposed building is consistent in size, matching in set packs with 11 city point court as I mentioned, which was approved by this board in September 2013. In fact, it's more consistent with this MFR zoning sub district than the existing structure to be replaced. There's a slightly greater front yard setback than at 11 city point court. There's the same rear yard setback with a zoning compliant tree foot setback on the right side of the building. And as I say, a net increase of two units essentially by means of vertical growth within the maximum island at under zoning. Okay. How are the plans Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I appreciate that it was confusing at first pass. I think my only real concern is the rear yard relationship between the proposed new vats and the rear yards of O street in terms of there's just quite tight proximity. But I assume we'll hear about the abutters in that relationship. But no other questions. And 11, or maybe I got it wrong, 9 and 11, they are reconfiguring to take care of any building code issues on a shared property line at that point. So it's complicated but no other questions are signed to rear yard setback in my mom. Thank you. Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? I'm Adam Chairman of the Board, Elyte Villan-Meyer. Here's Abs and Elyte Services. We've received nothing but over 30 letters of support for this project. And all direct debuts have shown support. But we would like to defer to the board. Thank you. Good morning, Madam Mutheshian, I'm Mutheshap Devore, and I call that on from Council President Flings office. The council will like to go on record and support based on a good community process, positive abutters needing in us. In feedback from neighbors, we respectfully request that the proponent continue to work closely with the community during the construction phase on any quality of live issues. Thank you. Madam Chair, Secretary, here we do have those letters of support that the mayor's office spoke of, but we also have one letter of opposition just to both the project and general. Okay, I have a few raised hands on staff with minor. Good morning, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, minor progress with the carpenters union, we'd like to go and record us all of this proposal. And Tom, Timlin? I'm sorry. Yep. So I don't request a new you. Can you state your name and address for the record please, Tom? Yes, good morning. My name is Tom Timlin. I live at 395 East Fist Street in Sul Boston, Bono Reyes in Lifelong, Sul Bostonian. Madam Chair, members of the Board, enthusiastically support this project and I do just want to you know caveat the why. The Lyden family have been part of Sul Boston quite frankly since there has been a Sul Boston. Like many of us, we have seen far too many members of our family no longer be able to to live in our community, which is sad, but which is true. We're a victim of our own success. With Peter and Kelly Lyden looking to do here is bring the Lyden family into a building that will allow them to stay in perpetuity. This is not a money grab as we've seen some developers and I'm not knocking anybody for making a buck. But having said that, the Lyden family, they were raised by a single mother and a time when that was probably, I don't want to disparage anybody, but it's just extremely difficult. I want to say I would just appreciate the board taking that into account as we talk about affordable housing and the continuity of neighborhood. This is one of those really unique opportunities in which to do just that by your action today. Thank you. Ms. Ambassador? Sorry, I know there was another raised hand, but it looks like it went down. If anyone else is looking to give testimony here, let me know otherwise. I have no additional raised hands at the moment. Yeah, think about that. Okay, give them that information. May I have a motion, please? Motion to approve. BDDA is on the view. We can have a provider just to focus a little bit on the rear guard set. I know that'd be helpful. Thank you. Okay. That's fine. Is there a second? There was a second? All those in favor? Hi. Hi. You opposed? Motion carries. You're all set, but no. Thank you. Following an ex-case calling B O A 126 285 168 Day Street. This is a chain of ox from a two family and church to a three family and renovate the first floor unit. No work to be done in the upper two units exterior of the building or site. Violations at the 55 section 40 must be parking and loading at the 55 section 9. The additional lot of areas is sufficient at the 55 section 9. Useable open space and sufficient name and address for the record, please. I'm sorry. Is that Mr. Layer? Yes, I'm recusing myself on this matter. Okay, thank you. Okay. Call ahead. Madam Chairman of board, we start with the Daintor B firm 745 Land of Gavine with me is Jay Consumis from the proponent direction affiliate of the proponent city Realty Group. We are before you this morning with approximately 120 year old. Three family structure has been a massive group. It's a handsome structure of the quarter of a day and creating in the high square area to make a plan throughout the 120 years of this building's existence. It has alternated between being kind of a standard three family and for decades at a time having a commercial use in the ground floor. The most recent ground floor use has been as a small house of worship. Most of the surrounding context is residential although directly, diagonally across the streets is a multifamily building with the neighborhood store in the ground floor but almost everything else around us is entirely residential. What we've proposed to do is to convert that ground floor house of worship space to an approximately 1260 square foot three bedroom two bath bright sunny modern apartment. The rest of the building exterior has been re-abbed. It's a good looking high quality building today. The only change is changing to that allowed use. Where before you because it's cornered a lot there's no space for parking. There never has been parking on the site. The parking is a flag violation with the change of use. There's also insufficient usual open space on the lots and the lot area for dwelling use also slightly under. It is just a historic grandfathered undersized lot. Okay and what's the zoning district here? It's a three of four thousand madam chair. The lot area here is 3122 square feet so it's a touch under what would be allowed today. Okay how are the plans Mr Robinson? Plans are fine. No real questions. Just want to make sure I understand so that this looks like the second access point which is to the right in the main front door. That's existing correct. That yes the desperate. Okay no other questions. Okay any questions for the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes madam chair members the board. Conor Newman with the Mayor's Office and Neighborhood Services. This time the Mayor's Office is like to defer to the judgment board. Some background information on the community process. The Mayor's Office held in the butter's meeting on November 23rd 2021 which was slightly attended by members of the community. At this time our office does not have any letters of opposition or support. We did receive a support from the Jamaica Plain Neighborhood Council zoning settlement. That being said, we'll defer back to the board. Thank you. Madam Chair Secretary here we do have that one letter that the Mayor's Office just spoke of. Okay. Mr. Ambassador. Madam Chair I have no way to hand it at the moment. May I have a motion please? Motion to approve. Sir second. Second. All those in favor. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Your roll. Second. Good luck. Thank you very much. Following your next case calling B.O.A. 120327011 Althea Street. This is a construct a rooftop deck that creates air access from that report. The violation is Article 65 Section 9. The building has excessive feet. Article 65 Section 9. The side yard is sufficient. And Article 65 Section 9. The rear yard is insufficient. Name an address for the record please. Miss Linser on. Sarah Linser. Was someone for Althea? No. I want to say. Sarah Linser. Sarah you've been alluded. Are you here for this case? I am here for this case. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead. Can you say to name an address for the record please? Good morning Madam Chair. I'm Mr. Bored, Taylor Ferguson, contractor of record 240 East A Street. This proposal is in regards to a roof deck at 11 out the A Street. We're looking for relief from the building height that is excessive with regard to a pervola that is proposed for the roof deck. And relief from the side yard and rear yard setbacks. Okay so please talk us through this first fall of this rooftop deck would be accessible to all units or just the top unit. No this would be accessible to Sarah Linser only. This is from her rear porch access we'd be building stairs onto her roof and it would solely be for her use only. And this is a three family? Correct. And what's the zoning district? Not 100% sure of that off the top of my head. Madam Chair it's three F 5000. Thank you. So okay so tell us about that. The rest of the roof deck give us more information. So the roof deck is proposed with a pressure treated frame and composite decking along with a pervola to provide some privacy to allow Sarah to enjoy the outside space a little bit further. It will have a fence design around it to limit viewing within to the deck as well. Other than that it is pretty. Because so can we tell us what page we should be looking at just be what that pervola might look like? Oh there it is. Yep so there's a picture on page seven in regards to what that pervola would potentially look like. That I mean but for the fact that it's you know two possibly three seasons it's almost adding us another floor up there right. What's the height of that pervola? That pervola is it's it's shown at eight foot eight and a half above the roof. Eight foot eight okay and is that a solid wall that I see the white board at the bottom? So that will not actually be a wall we're still working through design it'll be more of a fence style similar to the space out decking that is you can see above that that is more going to be the style of which she'll have. And did you check out any other options besides a heavily fenced bugle up? This was the design that was put together between Sarah and the architect team so that's that's what they wanted to go with. Okay and all the plans Mr. Robinson. Plans are fine the rear decks do exist so they're just extending on another flight to the roof but I think your points are well taken in terms of how solid it is and feels almost as an additional room so they should be taken under consideration. Thank you. Is any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition to this proposal? Yes good morning Madam Chair members of the board George Wynn with the mayor's office and the neighborhood services our office held in the butters meeting for the proposal in November 2021. No butters were in opposition in the St. Mark's area civic association issued a letter of support. At this time our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you. Madam Chair secretary we have that one letter of support from St. Mark's Association. Madam Chair I have no raised hands at the moment. Okay given that information may I have a motion please? I'll make a motion to approve with a BPA design review for the roof structure and the the process of the walls. I'll second that. Just a question on that. I mean I would support that if the roof structure was eliminated just a roof deck but that's not what you're suggesting Mr. Robinson. No I guess I understand the desire for some shade. I just think it feels like a room up there so I think we want to remove that. So I'm okay if there's a open air purgola up there with some shade coverage but I just think it feels a little bit too much like an extension of a bill. So so make it look like a pergola. Make it look more like a pergola than a saw. Okay. Okay. Now but you have definition of puggola in place. So there's obviously a motion. The second all those in favor. I. I. Any opposed. I. Will the post. Mark okay. I think we should carry. Next case, motion. All right, let's get them muted. Calling the next case. Call the BOA 126-7998-421-425 Washington Street. This is to combine two lots into a newly created single lot to be 4,185 spray fee. A change of auction from Bobbyshop, Niel salon, restaurant, and takeout. Two beauty salons, one office. One rents from our with takeout and 14 residential units. The existing building will remain with 3 tenant spaces, proposed to construct a new three-story vertical addition on the top of the existing building, and a four-story addition alongside the existing building. The Violation Medical 67-632, Austria-Pigant and Sufficient. Medical 67-612. A floating-air ratio is excessive. Medical 67-612. The building height is excessive. Medical 67-612. Find your setback is insufficient. Medical 67-612. The side yard setback is insufficient. And, Article 67-612. The ray on setback is insufficient. Name and address for the record please. So, where is I? You've been on mute. Where can you hear me? I sent a request to unmute you. Was anyone else speaking on your behalf? Yes, yes, I'm muted. Go ahead. I think speaking on behalf will be Dennis Quilty, our legal counsel, and Matthew Frenke, our protect. So, I'm going to... The panel is giving me some issues, but I just sent a request to unmute Dennis. Okay, great. Thank you. So, you will be speaking on behalf. Am I in? Yes. Okay, great. Thank you. Sorry, I was trying to raise my hand. I couldn't get in otherwise. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Jaros. This area is the owner's representative. My name is Dennis Quilty. Attorney representing the property owner with us is Matthew Frenke, the project architect. The project is suggested to combine two lots. We would... We seek to maintain the neighborhood retail uses, which are in this space presently, and add 14 units of housing on the two combined lots. This is a transit-friendly development being extremely close to multiple bus lines, blue bike stations, and within 0.7 miles of the forest hills, T station, and close proximity to commuter rail as well. So, Mr. Quilty, please talk to us about the project. Tell us what's being proposed. What's being proposed is a residential development on top of the existing retail. 14 units on the two combined lots. So, the existing building to the left of the set of plans, if you will. It gets an addition above the retail spaces, which are rebuilt, and then those businesses are moving back in. And it's added to the space next door, the vacant space next door, which also has an addition, and that's where the 14 units are comprised in the addition area. The having gone through, we met with Councillor Royo and his staff. Mr. Quilty, we'll hear all the fact from neighborhood services. What we need to do is, you know, for you to bring your expertise. So, tell us what is the existing restaurant, where there are new restaurants that take our proposed for this space. In the existing space, there is a restaurant, a barber shop, I forget what the other, there are three tenant spaces, a beauty salon, nail salon in a restaurant, and when the building is done, hopefully, there will be two salons, one office, and one restaurant to take out. So, in that commercial space, because now that commercial space is extended onto the presently vacant area, so the commercial space becomes slightly larger. But the similar uses are imposed for the new building. And talk to us about the unit breakdown. The bedroom square average square feet. The bedroom breakdown is, there are seven studios, six one bedrooms, and one two bedroom. And I do want to make a point. Mr. Frankie will have the square footages. I hope he's been unmuted, but we'd like to make a point very clearly that in following the recommendation of Councillor O'Royeau and the preferences of Mayor Wu's administration, the owner has agreed to go to 20% affordability on this project. Mr. Frankie. Mr. Frankie, unmuted. Could you go through the square footages of the units, Matt? You see not with us? The name, Frank Witts' name? Not Frankie, F-R-H. No, I'm on one second, I'm sorry. Frankie, go ahead, Matt. Hello, everyone. There he is. Hey, Matt, the question was on the unit square footages. Can you give us the average square footage for the studios, the one bedrooms and the two bedrooms, please? Hi, everyone. Yeah, the studio is approximately 470 square feet. Well, the studios are approximately 470 square feet. That one bedroom is approximately 605 and the single two bedroom is 994. Any roof deck proposed? No. Any decks proposed? Yes, I'm a long-washing tenant and mosque roof, not for every unit, but for a price we have, well, maybe more than half of the units. Is this an elevator building? You must be. Yes, it is. Okay. And any parking whatsoever? No. No parking at all. Okay. Is that a headhouse on the top that I'm seeing? That would be the single-sterey part by code to access the roof for maintenance purposes only. Okay. How are the plans, Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. Yes, that is a headhouse for, and it looks like the elevator override as well, or combined together in the rear. You know, I think it's a little bit taller. This is a little bit bigger of a development than down on this end of Washington Street, but it is a long-term main thoroughfare. So I don't really have any questions on the proposed stove. Any questions from the board? I have a couple of questions. I'm looking at Google Maps, and there's a billboard that's shown there. Is that on the building? Is that in the rear of the building? Existing building. I'm unaware of that. What is your unaware building? I don't think there's a billboard there. No, there's no billboard on top of this building. Okay, sure looks like it's on the picture, but... And the parking... So you're not only adding parking, but you're actually eliminating parking, that empty log that has been used for parking at the present. Is that right? There is a small surface parking lot, both called a parking lot, but dimensionally, it really doesn't even comply with current and the dimensional standards. It's really a tight little asphalt surface area. But yes, there are probably spaces for two or three cars there currently. And my final question is, this is four stories. It appears again from Google Maps and most of the buildings. I mean, I would agree with Mr. Robinson that is at Washington Street as a main thoroughfare, and that's a good place for density. But it does seem like most of the other buildings in the area are three stories. And this would be higher than... In terms of context, it would be higher than most of the buildings around. There is a project that was approved, and I believe it's starting to get under construction right, just a few doors down on the corner of Washington and in Arcdale, that is being proposed... Well, it's being constructed as four stories. It's actually a very similar size to this project. There's also another project that you'll be seeing. Actually, if you're looking at the drawing now right to the left, on the left there, it's a different project that I happen to be the same architect of. It's a different owner entirely. But I happen to be the same architect. That's the only connection. But they will also be proposing a similar high project. So that's... And on the other project, we spoke with the BPDA, and they felt that the four story was a good height for this project. However, on this project that we're speaking of today, just to be clear, they did mention that they have been recently directed to not be involved until after its BBA approval. So, what do you have in that with the BPDA on this project? And if I may, Mr. Fortune, I believe there are a couple of buildings on the opposite side of the street within the next block or so, that are roughly the same size as well. Is that not correct, Matt? If you're a number from the plants. That's correct. And I happen to know that there is one four story also being proposed across the street. But that's neither here or there as far as this project is concerned. Mr. Quill, it's Mr. Erlich, by the way. I'm sorry. Okay. But I'll probably have a blank spaces here. I'm sorry to have a blank spaces here. We're both marks, so that's fine. Again, the Google Maps is showing three story buildings on either side. But that's not said on that. So, this is a top of our Buriedem Grill, right? Correct. Okay. So, this looks like this four story building is going to start changing the character of Washington Street in this area. Because, just because of the materials that are being used and the height of the building. You just talked to us about the context again, because it is a part of the city that could perhaps accommodate a great identity. However, is four stories right for it and with no parking. Because it appears that the side streets somehow have an issue with parking. I think in terms of, I'm sorry, I think in terms of the context, it seems as though the development of the area is more in the direction of the four story buildings than not. I understand that there are some threes, some floor, some lower. But again, given what's proposed next door, what's been approved apparently across the street nearby. It seems as though this is in order to create the housing that these are appropriate heights. There really wasn't much parking to begin with. I mean, that lot is not indicated. Perhaps a couple of vehicles. Again, I mean, this is as close to transit friendly, we think as one can get given the number of lines that serve it. And the distance to both commuter rail and the forest LST station. And we think in terms of maintaining the neighborhood local commercial uses at the ground level. And providing housing in this case affordable housing. We think is appropriate for the site. Happy to be a Rosendale resident. Mr. Quilty. And we've seen what's happening on Hyde Park app, which is good in certain ways. But this has a different kind of character. And this design is completely, you know, is really not supportive of what we see out there. So I'll just put it there in the meantime. Any other questions from the board? We'd certainly be happy with this, you know, BPD, a design review in that regard Madam Chair. You know, I would prefer that in fact that projects come to us with a sense of context and not having, and I've set this before I think, not having this imprint that just is easily transportable from neighborhood to neighborhood that kind of eats away at the neighborhood character. We've seen that happen in South Austin. And I think, you know, the concern in East East is that the same thing is happening there. So we need to just as the board, you know, have the applicants come through with something that is, you know, reflective of what's happening in the neighborhood. We cannot just toss everything to the BPD for design review, because I think they also feel the pressure of being squeezed squeezed. So I'll just put that out there. But in the meantime, any other questions from the board? Yes. Yes, I miss this. What was the rationale for no parking? Because I'm looking right adjacent to the BPD looks like a proof project with 16 19 units and 16 parking spaces. So I'm just wondering what, you know, they're able to put parking on their in their project. So the project. Yeah, sorry, the project at 4011 Washington Street is twice as deep the site is twice as deep as this project. And so we were able to put some parking in this project has a very shallow depth of the site. And once you once you add a driveway and circulation in and out in the parking spaces, it it dimensionally does not fit to have any parking. Okay. So the goal was to maximize maximize the number of units, but minimize the community and maximize the impacts on the community. So I'm sorry. I think you got it, Mr. Quilty, right? Okay. Yeah, but I would just be spot. We heard numerous times and meetings with neighbors with the city councilor. I got it. So let me just to get testimony is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal. I remember a court, my name is Lee, she was the one who was out of service. They did have a community process. And they were able to send in this, they were able to present this in front of the neighborhood association area, which is the lowest of Washington Street. One of the members from that neighborhood association was in support and some other letters from support. However, we did receive about nine letters of opposition to both signatures, also in opposition of this project. And the property owner also agreed to increase the affordable housing percentage of 220% which is what the community has requested for pedestrian access and plans for energy efficiency in the future. We would like to defer judgment. We have no letters of support. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board. Jordan, free us here from Council of Recartor, a world's office. I'd like to go record support of this project. Thank you. Mr. Fortune, one of the letters of opposition based on density, parking, all the things that Madam Chair is talking about the board. Madam Chair, I do have a few raised hands here. I'll start with Karen. You've been a mute. Can you stick to name it? I just go to the record please. Yes, Dr. Karen Weber-Salamanka. I met four Archdale road in Roslanddale. I'm a nearer butter. I'd like to speak to a cup. Number one, to support pretty much everything Madam Chair has mentioned about the character of how it's going to change things. But in that respect to the point of 3992 Archdale, our neighborhood was not included in that conversation for whatever reason. So from my understanding that building is stalled due to problems of financing. So in order to go ahead and state that the building at the corner of Archdale in Washington, which is 3992 Washington, is a precedent for building four story buildings. I don't agree with right now. What I do feel is absolutely it's a building that would be very tight. It will feel very strange to the neighborhood. I had the opportunity to speak to a lot of neighbors. I have a couple issues with the way the property is being set right now stating about the two salons. When in fact there's a barbershop and the barbershop thinks that they are continuing to stay there. So I don't understand why the barbershop isn't listed as one of the slots. Number two, the salon. They are not. They are in opposition. They are one of the ones who signed the petition. So they are not in agreement. The neighborhood in Grille, when I spoke to the owner, is in favor, but he does not think that he's leaving his unit. He thinks that he will continue to use that restaurant and that it's not being rebuilt. Thank you. Go ahead. Just please wrap it up because we do have other people we'd like to hear from. And please may I make a note to the next speakers give us new information because it sounds like the speaker is very comprehensive. So thank you. Thank you Madam Chair members of the board at like to underscore everything that the chair said in terms of the building being completely out of place in this area and changing the neighborhood nature that neighborhood in addition to just the general issue of density related to the height and the footprint with no setbacks. There's a direct safety concern expressed by all of the abouters opposed regarding the turning on to Washington, which is already dangerous. It's I guess it's called a door chest or left apparently that's that was a new one to me, but in any event you have to creep out into Washington. And even be able to turn it up as it is. So it only make that much worse and the issue of no parking is just a complete non starter also with putting neighbors with rental properties resident resident landlords who who rely on the street parking here as part of the value of their rental and who would be adversely injuriously affected by the spillover, which is inevitable. If one just looks at that area and where the parking spaces exist, they exist on the site. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, man, Mr. Master, can we hear from other people who have been raised here? Sure, you have a lawyer go ahead. Hey, hi, my name is Lori. 49 Augusta, Savonue. I'm not in a butter. And I am a post, madam chair and members of the board. I want to raise the point about retail parking spaces, you know, when ISD calculates the number of spaces, always certain that retail spaces are included. And particularly these businesses are going to be spaces for their customers. She takes two hours to get their car cut and want to have a nice meal. So I just want to raise that as a, with this property, thank you. Thank you. Madam, try it up. Can I get to Mark? Mark, are you all set? Can you hear from you? I would observe that parking lot does function as a parking lot for the existing businesses. There are six striped spaces and it's not like some random space that's being proposed. Thank you. Given all that information, may I have a motion please? I'm going to make a motion to work and I am without prejudice. I think there's a, it's on a main drag and it certainly could be more dancing than it is, but this is packing too much into a small space. I'll second that and I agree I think there's some sensitivity in the right hand side of the building in terms of the relationship in the street, but the corner building and also I think the building behind on Mosque have, you know, a little bit nervous about how the building turns the corner and it's almost being flopped. I think it's almost being flopped up in the corner to be the more exacerbated issue, so I second that. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye, opposed. I'm opposed as well. I'm with the motion, so the motion carries. Following your next case, calling VO128289230 Washington Street. I'll extract the three story 11 dwelling in the structure with 15 parking spaces. Three spots plus 12 stackers. Violation is article 51, section 8. Multi-filely use is forbidden. Article 51, section 23, Austrian parking. Insufficient. Article 51, section 40.5, Austrian parking design. Article 51, section 57.2, the existing building alignment and formity. Article 51, section 9, the additional lot of areas in submission. Article 51, section 9, the employee ratio is excessive. Article 51, section 9, the building has excessive indeed. Article 51, section 9, the front yard is in submission. Article 51, section 9, the rear yard is in submission. I mean, that does have to do with. Afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney John Pogini will be happy to have you here. Sorry, Carl Sir. Sorry to inter-... Sorry, Attorney Pogini, the interrupt. Madam Chair, I need to recuse myself on this matter. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Mr. Pogini, it's hard time hearing you. I don't know if you can get closer to your controller. Much appreciated. Sorry, but that's not screaming. I'll get afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the Board, Attorney John Pogini, I'll be happy to be applicant. With me today is Ania Carrera, who's the architect for this proposal. Together with Jacob Simmons, who represents the owner. As Mr. Pogini read out, the proposal is a three-store, 11-unit building, under ground-to-barcance spaces. As many of you remember, this proposal came before the Board and June, that the time was in nine-unit building. The Board, as well as the community and the council, had reservations presenting a nine-unit building, as it would be known with boardability. Working with the community in the elected, we changed the plans to reflect 11 units, and able us to provide a three-bed, two-bath, family-sized unit, affordable, as well as a sizeable contributions of the city, affordability fund. We go through the violations, Madam Chair, if you would like, of the unit-sized units. I'm both pleased. So, obviously it's a multi-family proposal in a three-up zone. Parking here is 1.75, so it'll be 22 spaces, where it goes in 15 spaces. Lotty areas, 1,500 square feet, as well as 8,925 FAR, and 1.4, high-dust 35, we're at 37.5. Oh, here's something for Pete, how far is that? Let me see what that is. Go ahead, I'll just hold you. Sorry, Rheary Yacht is 40, we're at 17.2, and our front Yacht is 20, so it does comply with zoning. The unit sizes, on the first floor, we have a 1331 square foot three-bed, two-bath, 1,049 square foot, two-bed, two-bath, and a 1478 square foot three-bed, two-bath. Floors two and three are identical, so we have a 1331 square foot three-bed, two-bath, 1163, three-bed, two-bath, 993, two-bed, two-bath, and 725, one-bed, one-bath. And again, the reason for the changes was the Naval One and War family-style units, which we have added to it, and property now, because it's comprised of two buildings, one has a three-residential units and another has a commercial space. Okay, so just, sorry, council, let me just understand then. So you will not be providing affordability on-site, you would be rather putting into the fund. Is that what I'm understanding? No, no, Madam Chair, we are providing a three-bedroom two-bath, a four-dolley unit, and 70% AMI on-site. Uh-huh. And in addition to that, we're making a approximately 125,000-dollar contribution to the city of Florida. Okay, so one affordable at 70%. Okay. I agree, Madam Chair. Okay, and then, Mr. Robinson, how are the plans? Plans are fine. I guess I just have one question. I didn't hear this case before, but so I appreciate the parking. Is the parking requirement and the stack of requirement? Is that actually pushing up the building height a little bit here? Because, I mean, the grade slopes, but I'm just trying to understand how the buildings sitting on the ground feels like it's elevated. So Mr. Robinson, Tonya Carrera, who's the architect is on this call. Yup. If you could be up-muted. Okay. Yes, I'm on-muted. So, Tonya Carrera, Palsett Design. So, yes, the building currently is set up from the street substantially. So we're proposing to keep that height, prepare the existing sort of wall. And the parking would be below it. So we'd have a ramp sloping down on the building. Any other questions? Any questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Yes, Madam Chair, members of the board, Connor Newman with the Mayor's Office neighborhood services There's boards aware of the sprizes before the board Prior to that we had two of butters meetings January 28th April 8th 2021 There was a mixed propignions that we received from the butters some concerned about the density on this side of Washington Street With other residents final the projects and wanted to see high levels of parking to ensure that the community impacts on Shannon Street around the corner They went to the White and Austin Improvement Association received their support They also went to the AI again with most recent plans and received the board again Several members see that the project had been improved upon and like the affordability being added to the mix We also had the we also received a letter from the also bright historical society that was worked about the demolition of the home which they have a historic value lastly The council's office is also here to test the fines So that information Madam Chair Secretary here, I don't know if Mr. Domingo is on but he's spoken on this one Mark I am right here and Madam Chill ladies and members of the board I'd like to request that the space closer to the stakers be removed and Increase the width of the space furthest away To 12 feet by 20 to make sure that there's an adequate allowance for handicap access of egress That would then adjust the parking your suggesting to 14 spaces the 13 spaces would be 14 spaces Thank you, Mr. Domingo And And this is more of a great and council great office councilor like to go on record asking its part of this project We appreciate the changes that the proponent has made since last time they appeared before the CBA We and we appreciate their inclusion of a three-bed affordable unit. Thank you Okay, and I do have a raise hand John Q's that go ahead. Can you say to name an act? Oh, I'm sorry Annabelle I do see you can't raise I'll start with you You okay in the bottom chair of the member of the board and about go on to the bright and all some improvement associations We'd like to go on record and support. Thank you. Thank you, Annabelle Okay, and John Q's that go ahead and John Q's act at 186 Washington Street and Brighton And I with the changes that were made I'd like to go on record supporting this project. Thank you I Have no additional raised hands may I have a motion please Motion to approve BGDA design of you Second all those in favor I am Any opposed motion carries Yes Last case for 10 30 calling the away 911 768 1524 VFW backway This is an existing yoga studio space to be converted into a retail marijuana dispensary establishment Where it concludes all new material fit up an exterior modification to the storefront Violation article 56 section 15 cannabis established with new Yes Madam chair members board. This is Mike Ross returning with the law from a Prince Labele and joined here today With peer dext you know consultant to the team This project ma'am chair members as should look familiar to you We were before you in August the last year for a board of final arbor if you recall That's a good photo actually the refresh your recollection If you recall we moved from the basement of the beige building to the right of the former Yoga studio that's on the left and purple you could maybe zoom in just a teens bit more just to get a sense and We are we were there to move to the building on that left right there And today we're here for a use matter only and no no physical changes at all to the plan Except for actually the buffer Requirement that the board that your board had as a provisome And so what we have here is with there will be the addition now of adult use To an existing medical marijuana approved dispensary at the location Like I said, there are no other changes to the plans. There was the buffering Through the materials if we want to scroll through quickly This is just on the site plan you go go back there to the site plan This is a multi-tenant property in West Roxbury. There are three other tenants on the site There is approximately 30 parking spaces in an open Parking lot on the front of the building Deliveries to the facility, which is that white square about 2800 square feet will be conducted to the rear of the building the next slide shows you a Four plan It's now in its construction plan state So a little more detail, but the same four plan we showed you back in August The left being the entry the rear being the delivery area Dedicated entry in the center door with a separate exit on the In the on the on the lower portion of your of your screen We also provided a schematic. I'm chair. I know some Hay elevations of course, so the one on the right shows you the the front door of the facility again You enter through the center you leave through the right window on the left You see the back door you've talked us through before how the the facility would work Just clarify for us about deliveries Again Yeah, so deliveries would be would take place on that left elevation that you see on your upper left corner of the screen that is at the rear of the building probably once a week Maybe twice a week for the deliveries. There is the last slide. We'll show you I know sometimes you like to see the schematic of the We kind of look the layout of the cameras and where they are there total law there 12 cameras on the outside of the building 32 cameras on the inside of the building Okay Who owns the slot because did we we might have requested screening and buffering did we? Yeah, you did the front it's uh, we're renting uh this this property From the landlord long-term landlord who's been in place if you go to the first slide again You can see the where we wound up with the designer view buffering That you requested with the bpda You can see really in two places Beyond the minimum of five feet. We went well beyond that The upper corner as you can see as you enter To the the actual drive area the driveway area Kind of clean up the the front of that building and then when you go into our our building you can see that corner area has now been landscaped um and We're actually going to be creating a new fence line between those two landscaped elements so fairly Kind of robust landscaping scheme applied to this now. We were appreciative of this But the question becomes for the rest of the property. How are the plans mr. Robinson? Uh plans are fine and I could cure 100 percent I appreciate for the landscaping effort on the edge here, but it seems like it really needs some help along the main street and I don't know if that's even under this purview, but um it would be great if that could expand down the street sides No questions on the actual plans. Thanks Any any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition? Good afternoon, Madam Chair and members of the board jake lacey from the office of neighborhood services My predecessor jack dug in poster the community meeting on the 14th of October and additional meeting was held with the west box great neighborhood council that same month The council voted seven one in support of the project. We have not received any letters of opposition at this time. We defer to the board I Okay I do have a raised hand here Robert Nazar Go ahead can you state your name and address for the market please Yes, I will my name is Robert nacer night 12 5th 12 I'm about it to the property at 1528 a the swb property I oppose the granting of the use for this cannabis use for this property and I also have concerns about deliveries if they're delivering to their to the rear door as the applicant stated I believe that they would have to cross over my property lines make those deliveries So that's a concern that I have with regard to this specific use There was not with the yoga studio Thank you I have no additional raise chance at the moment Mr. Ross a quick response. I'm assuming everything can be accommodated on site That's correct. There is no need to cross onto the property line. Okay, may I have a motion please? Motion to approve Did do we want to confirm what we've done in the past for this petitioner only I can you with the design review just so that it's on the record when it goes up to the registry That's fine. Okay. Is there a second? Thanks all those in favor Any opposed motion carries it is it is now 1229 Amazingly we've met us casual. Let's take a five-minute break and We resume at 12.35 You Is back in session. Let's just take a quick roll call Mr. Fortune I see you there Mr.olic here Mr. Miss Dawg As in Mr. Regiro Mr. Legress Mr. Robinson yes, ma'am excellent Mr. Legress. Are you still here? Mr. Hampton Yes, ma'am chip excellent I think we need to probably like Mr. Legress know that he's muted Okay, let's let's go Um, it's the fortune thank you. I'm sure Okay, good. I'm going to call the rediscussions for any deferrals or withdrawals. Give me the address first please It's the secretary the first two matters on the agenda for 1230 Thank you very companions Yes, thank you, Mr. Rancid calling case B.O.A. 115 3857 127 Bolton Street There is a companion case B.O.A. 115 3868 152 S third street Name and address to the record please Good afternoon, ma'am chair members of the board. My name is George Moranci. I'm an attorney with business addresses 350 West Broadway and self-hosted Uh, madam chair members. I'm afraid that this is an unavoidable deferral request We had set submitted revised plans to the Inspectorial Services Department on February 16 We have not been able to get the updated approved plans back in the plans examiner. He's on vacation this week So I don't have the updated plans for review by the board today Can we have a motion please? Motion to report Second all those in favor. Hi Any opposed the date. Sorry, ma'am. I'm sure I need to just just gonna recuse myself from his vote vigorous. Okay Um Um, let's just see The day will be April 26th at 11 30 Okay Excellent. See you then. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for the 12 30 cases? Um, Mr. Fortune 593-595 Albany Street Thank you, Mr. Locast calling case B.O.A. 124-671-1593-595 Albany Street name and address for the record please Mark LeCast LeCast last 75 Arlington Street in Boston I understand from Stephanie Haynes that there is a note on the file that This was deferred to this date, but needed to be re-advertised for April 5 based on a change to the Plan so that it's it's being advertised for April 5 so it just wish to confirm that that is the case That is correct May I have a motion then? Motion for Is there a second? Second all those in favor Hi, I'm here post and we know it's April 5th at 11 30 Excellent. Thank you. Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals for 12 30? They're for 55 vote and half Thank you for the record calling B.O.A. 1202529-55 vote now venue name and address for the record please Name is Gabriel LeBot Jenkins addresses 55 vote and half And tell us the reason for the request We're still working with ISD Just going back and forth. They keep asking a little bit after a little bit after We hope to resolve it soon Okay, is this your second of the request for the third? I believe Third okay, I'm chair. It's a fourth It's okay. Okay. It's not it's not looking good. So please make sure um That uh you just get your act your A ducts lined up so that we can proceed with this case. Okay. Right right mark may I have a motion please? Motion deferral is there a second? Second all those in favor Hi Any opposed motion carries please please give them a little longer time mr. Fortune. Yes, matter chill. We can do May 10th at 11 30 May 10 to 11 30. Thank you very much Okay, see you then Are there any other deferrals or withdrawals to the 12 30 cases Hearing none. I'll go to the first case Calling sorry Calling B.O.A. 117 537 120 centa-street. This is a constructing one-story building training just training center for youth build Boston The main use would be a wood shop accessory educational space slab on grade wood frame and light medical construction Violations article 50 section 28 use of a trade school use of the bin article 50 section 29 a lot of crunchy distance sufficient article 50 section 29 the ray gathers in sufficient An article 50 section 43 osprey packing is insufficient naming the address for the record please You This is Travis Okay, the name Didn't see them check in earlier. Does anyone on the clock any raising hand if you get for this case We can come back, madam. Yeah, okay good Let's go to the next case Calling B.O.A. 118 9307 3 half moon street this is a converted existing basement into a fourth unit And an existing three-family structure the violation of article 50 section 28 Poor units in the three-half zones conditional use article 50 section 43 osprey packing is insufficient article 50 section 29 the additional audit areas insufficient article 50 section 29 the fluya ratio is excessive and article 50 section 29 the usable open space is insufficient Name and address for the record please Are there as a raised hand here? Luna Center request I'm you you here for this case Yes, I can you hear me Okay, Joseph Luna Luna design group 100 counter for hill dry sweet 406 Damveress, Massachusetts 019 to three We are the project architect for this for this project representing france law tote of the owner This is a continuation of a prior hearing with the request to ask additional information Regarding the profile of the of the proposed basement and relationship to grade Ceiling height etc on January 29th we submitted a Revise set of the drawings to show the requested information and again an elevation as far as what the relationship is of the proposed basement unit Too great and additional information regarding ceiling height That drawing is included and sheet a 401 We also to note a specific information regarding windows sizes and egress We've all required building codes regarding bedroom bedroom egress We've gone through the public hearing process already please so please um can we um can you give us details because About the floor to ceiling height in that Basement just make tell us the story but why this should be said advice All right again, it is a pre-existing basement space That my client wants to turn into a legal fourth unit We have a ceiling height of over seven feet seven foot zero and a half Throughout the entire space we have a full height along the The east side of the building you can see on sheet a 401 Where the egress door is out of the unit and three door into the unit and the relationship of the window well You'll also see a dashed line through that elevation with the grade beyond On the west side and you can see that the building is sitting above Above grade for this basement level Um as part of the work is again defined we will be putting in a full nfp a 13 r springboard system to bring the building of the current Current life safety standard for a multi-family building and what's the proposed size of that unit 954 square feet Okay, and utilities are separate Yes Okay, and um floor to still height on the other side Um floor floor ceiling height is up when floor to still What's so you Floor to or soon be ceiling to grade height as approximately four feet. It's a slope site. So it varies Okay, how are the plans mr. Robinson? The plans are good They did bring back the information that we requested in terms of the cell it is a fully exposed on some of the side and rear um where the main one of the bedrooms is And the other side does appear that um The natural grade is Roughly right at the cell height of the adjacent bedroom window on the other side. So I think the information is here for us to make a assessment of this Okay, and um, was this the one that we know this is rocks break um on the parking with the parking situation here Um, there are two tandem parking spots currently on on the site um And that's if that's what we have for available osprey parking now So now let's switch um plan. We should look at to see where the tandem parking is I'm removing at the site sir site survey right now if you look toward the West side of the of the building um, you'll see where the drive you'll see where the driveway is and there are two tandem parking spots there on the east side There's a walkway that extends from the half-moose street to the back unit Um, so the parking would be in that driveway then yes, yes, those are current existing at the spots um mr. Robinson with that um Get in the way of any egress or access issues to that unit I don't believe at one actually because I don't think there's enough space to that you can see in this plan. There's a uh a bay window So the vehicles actually one will be in the front yard It looks like and then one would i don't i'm not sure mr. Domingo even saw this but um, it looks like maybe there's a space for one Um from the front of the building to the dorm or sorry the bay window where is where the egress or the window for the bedroom is so I'm not there's not enough room to get a car past that in the property No, they they they cannot so it might be a question if there's even two spots. Yeah, it's a tight. It's a tight two Okay, any questions from the board Yeah, I'm a little confused. I thought that the applicant said that the florida ceiling height in the base was a little over seven feet if this is a four unit Building then it has to then the cold required it's a minimum of seven foot sets The florida florida eight foot eight the ceiling height is seven foot zero and a half I believe massive amendments on this allowances to carry this it's still seven feet Wait, I'm sorry. What was the last thing you should you believe the what? mass mass building code amendments allow seven foot floor four four four four out of four ceiling height out of basement My understanding is one or two units seven feet is acceptable But if it's three or four and if you more seven foot six I would have to go back and research that code I'm a mr. Audison and that's I want to show that to be the case correct Okay, well, we got a problem then yeah, we do Okay Excellent just put that on the record that this technically And by building code is below below the threshold May I just go out and see who's out there to speak either in support or in opposition You Madam chair members the board Jason again About spray liaison for the mayor's office and input services So just to highlight as the sororities spoken about before and the butters meeting was held on the gion and set on team And what's there? What are letters of support and opposition sent in and also support and opposition was voiced on Meeting the opposition primarily dismantling the basement unit with support being of the basement. Thank you Okay, and you know and you understand that This this just doesn't meet a building code requirements Yes, and I think I'm talking to Jason. Thanks Anybody else to go get on the record please Madam chair. I have one raised hand Yes Yes, Bob the me go B.T.D Madam chair lady members of the board. I don't see any parking spaces reflected on the plan I'm sorry if it's there, but I can't see it and I would like to ask a proviso that they put the parking space or parking spaces on the plan for my review Thank you Jeff Mr. Hampton did the BPA have an opinion on this? I will double check it was deferral so hold on just a minute Yes Mr. Hampton my fortune the original date is December 7th at that health show Okay Okay, so our original thank you, Mr. Fortune for that our original Went to our board November 8th approval with proviso that no building code relief be granted Okay, so you picked up on the building code, but okay, and then we have to concern about the parking okay May I have a motion please? I'm going to make a motion deny without prejudice they need they need to address the building code problem And the only way to do that is by excavating and then you've got a Different situation with the great height. So they they need to come back. I'm not sure if this is flexible, but I'll second and I think also to meet Mr. D'Amico's Recommend that or sort of request for a parking needs to be defined. Yeah, is there a second? Oh, yes, there are the second I'll go favor I Any opposed motion carries you're all sorry. That's the decision by the s'more Okay, so just to be clear Um, what we what we'll do this is a is a denial of all prejudice Yes, please Yeah, please talk to the Please talk to the meat bad that board of appeal staff and they can guide you okay? Okay, what we'll do is we'll make that revision Thank you. Oh, in the next case calling the away 1262944 302 to 316 both the street This is a room for viso poteca or transit to the petition or only the violations article seven section four Other protection conditions may have an address for the record by Mark Reed 310 board and streets Um, so please tell us what you're proposing Well, I'm looking to get permission to do my take-holt Okay, so first of all, what's the name of the restaurant? The hummingbird hummingbird and I think is this is this in the basement or is it above grade? It's too far is this the basement and you have you have The The upper level where is is that already existing? So I just decided to give you Um, the two plans for the basement and the actual restaurant. Okay, and Have you experienced what take-out? Yes, ma'am Yes, we're in Boston. Yes, ma'am hummingbird great contra-kitchen blue and I I'm in the grid so I'll have a meeting here with my third to Okay, okay excellent How are the plans? Mr. Robinson Plans are sufficient Looks pretty straightforward to me in terms of the existing layout Fairly small dining area, so no questions on this Excellent, um any questions from the board Is anybody here to speak either in support or not? Proposals Good morning, good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the board, Denise, this hand says in the mayor's office of neighborhood services Jay applicant has met with the community, gone through community bosses. They have direct the water support They have the main streets and the association support and at this time we would like to defer to the board. Thank you Good morning, good afternoon, Madam Chair. I have one raised hand Bob, did you want to speak on this case as well? Yeah Yes You have your hand raised. Are you speaking on this case as well? Oh, I'm sorry. No, I I made a mistake. Okay, Madam Chair, sorry about that. No worries Okay, may I have a motion? Motion to approve. Uh, when you will take out language for this article And I would signage will be part of that soon because I see there'll be a signage change but the Then I'm BPD a desire to do for the signage for the signage up next chair and looks good no questions on that Second all those in favor Hi Motion carry Thank you calling the next case calling the VA 1272 069 26 tiles borough Tile boroughs street This is demolishing existing structure and erect a four unit dwelling townhouse design Through text for each townhouse and parking for eight vehicles at the rear of the building Violations article 65 section 15 used to bid Article 65 section nine the lottery areas and sufficient article 65 Section nine the whole area ratio is excessive Article 65 section nine the building title's excessive in stories Article 65 section nine the front yard is insufficient and article 65 section nine Beside the adjoice and sufficient name and adjoice for the record Good afternoon, Madam Chair members of the board mark flakas La Kassla 75 Arlington street in Boston Attorney for the applicant and proponent owner of the property marks of at ski At the existing property is a a small Older rundown single-family home that is proposed to be raised and to construct as you see on the screen here Ford townhouse style units interconnected but they very much read and live as Single-family homes each and it being three stories in height 1728 square feet of living area Three bedroom and two and a half bath for each of the units The zoning relief that we seek today is first item is a use violation The four units taken together constitutes a multi-family residential use and this is a two F sub district The zoning code refusels better Yeah, hold up one minute as you're going through two F what I'm sorry to have five thousand and what's the lot that's yeah, go ahead Lot size is seven thousand eighty nine square feet so we exceed the minimum lot size by quite a bit On that call yourself parking will walk Yep, so Madam Chair this case was before the board on January 11 at which time we sought a deferral based upon a Negative recommendation from the BPDA on the parking configuration as well as mr. Domingo the original plan showed eight Tandem style parking spaces in the rear yard and if The host can scroll ahead Next one, please there's there's a new Configuration and the proponent has met with BPDA staff as well as sought Input for mr. Domingo the new parking arrangement is four parking spaces here. Yeah right here four parking spaces in the rear yard utilizing the existing curb cut and driveway along the side of the four townhouses With sufficient maneuverability and turning radius for each of the four So the four parking spaces for the four unit actually satisfies the parking requirement and there's no violation on the refuse the letter for the parking configuration Which is a much improved condition from what was originally proposed And so this meets the parking requirement it does Okay, so we can um, we just need to know in that in anything that goes up to the registry that there is No request then for parking okay I was a plans mr Robinson I think the plans are good You know, this neighborhood pretty well. I know it's seen some share of a new projects, but I think the townhouse Sort of stepping down the site in the street. I think it's something that feels fairly Well well done on the street. So no no questions about the proposed size of the year It's sort of the scope for me. It looks pretty good with that great change to it There there are roof decks um shown and they are serviced also by a hatch. I just want to also Any questions from the ward Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of this proposal? It's good afternoon Madam Chair. I'm just the board George win with the mayor's office neighborhood services Our office held two of us meetings for the proposal in September and November last year There were a number of community members in support based on the Inclusion of feedback and reduction in size But also a number in opposition based on density and design At this time our office would like to defer to the judgment of the board. Thank you You have to know Madam Chairman is the board Joe McEckron C. Councillor Frank Baker's office. We'd like to go on for reckoning support of the project Madam chair. I have about five hands raised Chris you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the record please? Sure Chris rule 23 somewhere road Um if I chance to review the plans I think the design and townhouse format really works well for the neighborhood And just want to also offer my support as in the water for the project Thank you Meg a you've been unmuted. Can you state your name and address for the market please? Hi, my name is Miguel Verado my address is seven fame street Are you hit a cause on the trees? Being in support or in opposition? Yeah, I'm just calling in to offer my support for these points. I'm in a butter and I like the townhouses I think it'll be great and Addition for the neighborhood John you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Yes, John I've been off on that one five five king street In support of the project. I think just like some of the other butters the townhouse style suits the neighborhood It's nice that they kept the height to three stories and I think it'd be a great addition to the neighborhood Thank you Danny you've been unmuted state your name and address for the record please Sure Dan Sacker. I'm at five paint street um So look looking out on on where this project would be and and similar to whatever one else said I'm in support of the project I think it be Great addition and saw some of the other townhouses go up and think it think it could be good fifth neighborhood Thank you Jonathan you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Hello, um, I'm staying on behalf of myself and my husband My name is Milo Popo and the address where I is four pain street we are in support of this project We have a shared property line with the project and we're excited to see the improvement that it will rank to this neighborhood Thank you Ten you've been unmuted if you can state your name and address for the record please Ten I Hi Yes, I can state your name and address for the record please Yes, madam chair to Murray 84 whole street lifelong doc just a resident adamantly opposed to this proposal clearly based on the number of variants is sought it's improper for a lot um the parking is clearly insufficient on a personal note My home is my sanctuary My wife and I and my three children all have professional responsibilities that come with very unique stressors My son Patrick is currently forward deployed to Eastern Europe about a hundred miles from the Russian border So mr. Murray mr. Murray are you in opposition of this project then? I yes, ma'am opposition. Thank you Thank you Madam chair would you like to hear? Yes, ma'am different the next person Debra and John scully you've been unmuted if you can State your name and I'll just for the record please My name is Deborah Spelley. I'm here with my husband John. I'm here We live in a three-family house in Dorchester We have the only people living in this house. I do out of heaven with different moms Um, we basically use all the So it's what I'm only opposed What is your Prez Miss Henry what is your dress? What put your dress on the record to Um, and I can all speak us please but the our name and address on the record before you give testimony Thank you Debra and John scully 73 Hochen Street on George in Dorchester I am around the corner from the development We are adamantly opposed to the development as all the neighbors are in our street who have lived here for a long time We are tired of development people feel to mention that the Murphy School is at the end of child's world street Um, we have this development is located and I really don't understand how someone who lives on Delma Road in King Street I have any bearing because they're not really director but it's and My neighbors are set up we're going to these meetings, which is why there are not a lot of us here But again, I feel like I'm being Forced out people waiting for me to die so they can buy my house and I'm very upset with the city Okay, thank you. That's why we ask That's why we ask for people to address so we get a fence of how close people are to the property Miss ambassador can you move to the next couple of people and then we'll close out comments Or I believe that was it and I'm chair. Let me make sure that Chris Chris Okay, Chris I already spoke okay. Okay. Can you lower your hand please? Emma that's it met up chair no one else Um, given all that information may have motion please Well, I'll make a motion to approve of BBDA design over Sarah second Well second here all those in favor All right any opposed motion carries Thank you. I can't hear you Janie. I'm in a meeting. Sorry On the next two cases calling B.O.A. 127 1408 20 Gailow Street There's a companion case B.O.A. 127 1411 22 Gailow Street. This is for 20 Gailow Street building new three level three-family building Access to driveway parking for three motor vehicles in the rear The violation is article 65 section 60-8 the three-family detached dwelling into a bit article 65 section nine insufficient front yard setback article 65 section nine excessive f-a-r article 65 section nine the number of allowed stories has been exceeded article 65 section nine instrumental hot size article 65 section nine insufficient lot with article 65 section nine it's official lot with the proctage article 65 section nine insufficient side yard setback Act, Article 6568, accessory parking for bid. The bid may use the uses for bid. Article 65, Section 39, screening and buffering. This is for 22 Gaylord, is building a new three level three family building. This would be a post lot to three proposed parking spaces. There are a couple of different violations. So I had to call them into the record. Article 65, Section 9, the red insufficient open space. Article 65, Section 39, screening and buffering. Article 65, Section 9, number of allowed stories has been exceeded. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient lot size. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient lot width. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient lot width frontage. Article 65, Section 9, excessive FAR. Article 65, Section 9, sufficient frontage setback. Article 65, Section 9, insufficient ray at setback. And Article 65, Section 9, insufficient side-died setback. Amen, address for the record please. Good afternoon Madam Chair, members of the board. Andrew Lichfield at 22 alpha road in Dorchester. If I could just make one comment on both of those at the bottom. There were changes made in January. And as you can see at 22 Gay Lord Street, we're now proposing a two family building instead of a three family. It also has four parking spots instead of three parking spots. And do the plans reflect that? They do. Okay. And then at 20, at 20, I'm not still proposing three. Correct, but we added an additional parking spot. So it went from three to four parking spots. In total, it'll be five units with eight parking spots in the rear. Okay. So tell us about the unit. Let's see. So this is and tell us. So these are two side-by-side lots shared parking is operative. What it is? Yes Madam Chair. Currently there is a fire damage vacant single family on the 22 Gay Lord Street, which is the right side and a vacant lot on the left side. So on, go ahead. No, go ahead. Okay. So on number 20 Gay Lord Street, which you have in front of you, that is proposed typical three, three Decker three family. They're going to be all two bedroom, two bathroom units. With about 12 minutes to where feet each storage will, basement will just be for storage, it will be unfinished. And four parking spots in the rear. As we mentioned, the common driveway down the middle of both buildings to access the parking. And tell us about 22 Gay Lord. That's the right. Yes Madam Chair. Yes, so the 22 Gay Lord Street is a two family. There will be two by-level units. One is 1370 square feet. The other is 1390 square feet. Those will be three bedroom, two bathroom, two and a half bathroom units each. Any roof decks proposed? There is a roof deck on the number 20 Gay Lord Street, which is the three family. Is that just for the draft unit? It's going to be just for the top unit, exclusive to the top unit. OK. OK. How would the, OK, I'm just looking, just want to see the renderings. OK. Why were you deferred before? It was because when we submitted the new plans, the notice went out with the old violations, with the old plans of two three families. So we had to defer. OK. How are the plans from Mr. Robinson? Plans are good. I think the adjustments to 22, I think it is, where it's become a little bit more consistent with the street, I think it's nice. So I do, I think there's been some nice improvements as well. So the 20 is still a sort of more traditional triple decker, which isn't consistent on the street, but I think it's a mix that I think will work. Sorry. No real questions. I'm going to propose a update. Any questions from the board? Can we see elevations of 22? And the access to the deck on 20 is, is how? Is by what? To the 20 to the roof deck? We'll be off of the, I think it's in the unit, I'm sorry. Yeah, it's in the unit and it shows a roof hatch. Sorry, Mark. OK, thank you. Mr. Lutrile, can you please tell us which plan we should be looking at to see the ring ring for 22? This is your ring ring for 22. This is 22? OK. All right. OK, got it. OK. Any other questions from the board? Is anybody here to speak either in support or in opposition of these proposals? Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the board, Denise the Science Associate from the Mayor's Office of Neighborhood Services. The applicant met with the four corners main streets in the Graver's School and the William Association a few different times to meet the community's needs for this project. And they have work and direct the water support at this time of office, we'd like to defer to the board. Thank you. That afternoon, Madam Chair, which is the board, Dustin Gardner and behalf of City Councilor Wurl's Office, we'd also like to go and record and support just lifting up that they have worked well with the community and their communities in support of this. Madam Chair, I have one raised hand. Bob, you've been unmuted if you can state your name and I'll just for the record, please. Yes, Bob, the meet go, Boston Transportation Department. Madam Chair, maybe members of the board, I would like some clear plans rather than the smish mash of all plans put together. I would just like to have clear plans that depict the most recent design by May. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, are we all set? All set. May I have a motion, please? Make a motion, June's crew, with BPA Designer View and a clean plan for Mr. Demiko to ensure that the parking works. OK, there are seconds. Second, I'm generous. All those in favor? All right. All right. Opposed? Motion carrying. Madam Ambassador, do you know if Mr. Chavez is on for 20th Cent history? Or is anybody on for 20th Cent history? I don't see. I don't see. It's not. No. Is anyone out there? All right. I'll get one more. OK, well, Madam Chair, it's now 1.15. I'll make a motion for denial without credit. Excellent. OK, let me go. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Meeting is now, June. See everybody in two weeks and see if I'm of humanim up. OK?