 Okay. Okay. Recording his background live just once more reminding everybody this is a six member board soon frankly to become a five member board. So if Philip component wants to take advantage of the process of administrative deferral in order to wait for a full board you have the right to do so. So let's return to the agenda, Mr. Fortune. Thank you Mr. Care. I'm going to call the next two cases calling the away 135989400. If you have any gas boulevards there is a companion case be away 13596402. Now the gas boulevards. This is for 400 directly new six story multi-pale structure with 60 growing units for like five work unit live in work unit, three commercial hot stores. By least article 50 sex 24 for living work units first sort of the medical 50 sex 29. FA. Mac has been a lot of it's been max out of 50 sex 25 the bill and type act out of 50 sex 20.1 street wall continuity out of 50 sex 24 gallery use additional out of 50 sex party for point one three to a large wellings of the same lot. Article 50 sexual party for point three traffic those bill of eight cross the water. This is for 402 million gas. This erect six story multi-fail destruction with party for calling you to re gallery retail and live in work unit. Violation out of 50 sex 24 use conditions gallery out of 50 sex 24 retailers to bid out of 50 sex 24. One living working unit on the first floor has been article 50 section 25 at the FAR in the back article 50 sex 25 the bill headed back. Article 50 section 40 points once people are continuity and article 50 section 40 for one great to a module of the same plot. Name an address to the record. Thank you very much. This is a very good. I want to look at her like I would need to reduce myself. Okay, thank you. So, Mr. Feaster, we have five minutes. Well, I wanted to I'll put my address on the record. I would have followed the rules that Mr. Chair or Joseph Feaster from the law firm of Dane. Dane told me address 175 federal street. I'm not a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is I don't know what I'm looking at here so this is a Hold on one second excuse me Just give me one second because this is not Okay, so the project is a 400 only a castable bar and 402 only castable bar Which I looking at is the ground floor plan of The proposal which consists of two buildings on a one-log with we call parcel 8 the far left is a park to park a weight park The project is a result of an R.P. That was issued in February 2020 Herbana, just admitted at the proposal and June 2020 and the first was designated in April 2021 Today we have a rules from MEPA APDA article 80 as well as the Boston City's Zion Commission So okay, so we're looking at a typical office floor plan and we have on the right side is a is an apartment building And to the left is a condominium building and on top of that is a podium the podium if you can sort of slide Uh to the ground floor plan What was controlling this slots? Uh, the direction And on the ground floor plan to the far left there is art gallery Which adjoins the park the public park which we are also Designing developing to the far left and to the left of that is the lobby to the Uh, condominium building and then there are a series of spaces which wrap around that first building commercial art spaces as well as live work art spaces There's basically the two buildings that it's pedestrian walkway which connects Melanie cast in the sidewalk on Melanie cast to Something which we call it art rock which is a space pedestrian Space to the rear which moves along the side of the building the south part of the building you see there and it connects to Gateway park which to your far left on the right side we have The apartment building which has a similar program on the ground floor a series of root workspaces as well as Some commercial art spaces on the far right are all the spaces dedicated or For the residential building and lobby and bike room and so far and so on Um on the in the inside of the plan there is parking just the The song I'm working for for the apartment residents Um, okay This is our way I let me emphasize some of the points that I know that the board are like first world. This is 110,000 square foot mix use development the two buildings that we pointed out 402 Melanie or past There are 109 affordable units 64 rental and 45 45 home ownership units five of which Live work units included in the total and four will be rental one will be ownership We're really focusing here trying to speak to the audacity community give folks Network spaces to do the community process and with desirable and this was one of the reasons why this Applicant one the was selected as the tentative developer for this project to dark RFP process with BPD a There's also 3000 square feet of exhibition the cafe space and about eight over eight thousand square feet of public clocks And we're trying to integrate all of this into the Into this neighborhood and conjunct with the other developments that exist there. I know Member Pannato and it's about our one the previous Developer with regards to a relationship the Benjamin Franklin We also work very closely with historic Boston my client across the street in terms of Madison Park and what did doing? So all of this area and this Pannato was being developed as you know well being a former director of Madison Park This is ordinary area we're looking at inclusive of urbanicist project diagonally across the street Which is the the home telling condominium. So Roxbury is on the move and these are projects which will indefinitely enhance that and that's what this project is filling in the space Through the RFP process which was supported so I just wanted to put those high level because I know you're Your your time is whisking away there Mr. Chairman and I just wanted to do that unless you want mr. Chow to go in No, I appreciate it Let me ask some specific questions How many parking spaces are for the total project but for the combination of the two There are I believe 15 spaces Just for the right to build it right and how many To Yeah Okay, and with respect to trying to listen the same question I asked the previous I mean I know because this has come before us new educators getting artists to come in what is the process of providing preference to ensure that that is just not a wish but actually reality Yeah, this is cameras aheady and developer for this project We are working with your boss to the art and cultural department and also moh So these units gonna be only for the Artist that has a certificate with city of Boston. So we basically got it just marketed through moh And with that system of the art and cultural in a department of city of Boston Discussion with them and the idea of the whole idea of this art on the first floor is really to activate The many a cast and Harrison Adam E. Kornner and also close to the park Okay, thank you because I do know that I mean I know that the previous applicants have their issues with Logalities around fair markets, but I also know their ways of really making sure You know through the certificate program that you mentioned that their ways of marketing in order to achieve those goals So thank you for that I might add also Mr. garlic. I didn't speak in the early out but I have made with this as well And under fair housing act you're also an exception to address certain specific Aspects which which would allow this I represent here Certainly will pursue those and I certainly will pass it on to the developer The previous developer, but there are provisions within the fair housing act with give some exceptions Yeah, you're wearing a lot of hats today, Mr. Feaster I know in charge, but you know I learned that I learned that from Mr. Bernardo so they have for you so I'll be doing my best. All right. Thanks. Okay How are the plans Mr. Robinson Excuse me the plans are good. I you know, I was surprised there wasn't a bigger presentation with this at least in my files neither So I did jump into the BPA website when I was reviewing the cases and I think there's a there's a lot of merit to this proposal in terms of its Urban moves. I think the park on the corner of Washington Street Is quite nice and we'll provide I think some real relief and programming there as needed One question I just had is are you guys the building behind That existing smaller buildings that part of this development and on a whole or is it? Just not part of this as a zoning relief case the non-sactor reveal them. Yes, that's a different A different proponent Devise and we're but we're in coordination because we have a space which interfaces with his It's the end of our park so we're coordinating I think it's in the same with B said We're sort of working with our neighbors to try to develop the best urban plan got it That's I wish I could show you all these images. I have Well, I have them up in my own screen. So I guess get from my viewing pleasure only but okay That's one of my questions And then the the connective path between the two buildings is that intended to connect back into that is that part of that I'm just trying to make sure I don't know that that through block is originated from a kind of extension of lead street across known a task a sort of way to Kind of a bigger removed break the building also into two On the ground floor and that does allow for a cross block connection into our so-called our walk which is It's a walk with a series of part of the work spaces which you join that space So we think that we can serve program that to have a kind of Just a part fair or you know all those different programs like together But just having that sort of big block connection was both convenient but also allowing for more Ground floor glass and disability and trans trans That's understood I get I get and I think only two more questions one I guess I just a little question on the relationship of the building the Harrison app corner. It does seem Much tighter. I mean obviously is a large park on Washington Street. I mean I assume that was part of the BPA process I just want to sort of make sure we're not sort of Turning our back on Harrison and then the other question you can just maybe pop on real quickly because I believe it's A very strong sustainability project as it relates to the root scape and sort of potential So maybe touch on those two pieces and then I will be done. Thank you I can say that the building was we are moving targeting lethal Ruth we have solar panels which you can't perfectly see in any of the damages But solar solar ray and electric heat and I think that this is a Maybe I don't know if you want to elaborate, but this was sort of a requirement of Of the RP as well as the developers own kind of commitment to um, excellence area One thing I would like to add as Steven mentioned are going to be solar Paners on the roof you also And designing this building to minimize the carbon footprint and most of the noh you know buildings they require R40 for the wall or 60 for the roof so they very well insulated triple blades a glasses is all electric and And Also we are gonna have renters and buyers go to the community Source for bind electricity so minimize I find it from solar farms so minimize any effect of The gas in you know this area. So And it was our building is basically based on really high or sustained liberty parameters And Eric one other comment there is a very pronounced scallop design on non-neat tasks those are Clearly in deference to the existing trees on non-neat tasks and that design not only allows for each tree to have its own space But obviously we're maintaining everything that's there in addition. We're planning 48 new trees. So we think that All of these improvements to the landscape hardskick will certainly minimize the effects of that The map of climate so I think that there are also other other kind of Design considerations which I think demonstrate our commitment to Sustainable sustainable design I appreciate you touching that because I agree with you and thank you for that sensitivity to what we're looking for So thank you no more questions Any other questions in the board Yeah, I also want to applaud sort of finally seeing these parcels that were left over from you know Urban renewal days getting developed in the city So the curb cut on Harrison how does that relate to the curb cut at that at More tomorrow goodwill because that's I know this is a tough site from a curb cut period But how do those two driveways relate? Can you go to the site now? Yeah, they're not they're not aligned That's for sure our curb cut is only simply too allow for access to our Our small parking lot as well as some service and put a building it's I think we're a side plane, but basically it's sort of A wide enough for two cars to pass but really then becomes one One space which extends all the way along our arctic. It's really meant to be pedestrian only But it's like the service thing. Can we get the story? With you know a pretty large number of Residents in the building they're going to be catching ubers and lifts in the light. We heard those vehicles gonna stop I mean other early, you know, we asked them to give us the permission to have a curb cut the same way We have a parcel nine on Melnia, but Btd were not for that, you know things or they have to come Pulling to that driveway and you know basically stop there So back of the building because Btd did not want us to have any Drop off on the Melnia even either Her experience is a very good practice, but Yes, so can they turn around? How do you have to walk me through how that happens? I mean they go in and then they can turn around in the parking and then go back. Okay And you said all the units are affordable is that what I That's correct everything is anywhere from 30% up to 120% And the home ownership is more between 80 to 120% because of the Financing mechanism that are available, but on the rental part is anywhere from 30% up to 120 years and can you speak to sort of MWE Involvement and the project yeah Most of that her experience and most of the times you know when we go on our development over 40% of the project goes to Or minorities and the construction you know we've reached out to probably 67% even here we said 50 Percent in of 51% to the minority, but Historically have gone over that Boston residents we've been around 50% and women we've been around 10% which On the previous project we tried to reach the same numbers here You know our goal is 12% 51 51 But usually Boston residents and women usually have some difficulties to Reach to that 51% but minorities we have Probably 67 80% you know minorities on the workforce. Thanks Cameron So other than construction what about with sort of your your brown for resident your commercial program or contracting With the The contracting basically have a property management Is from the UMI from the community they are in Rockscree So those are the firm that they're gonna manage the project and then after the construction or the you know cleaning The landscaping everything else is gonna be contracted to the Actually businesses in the community and the minorities in the communities. I mean we have a good track record I mean, I think I'm personally very proud of you know maintaining you know Our commitment to this goal you know for past similar seven eight years and many projects not only in Rockscree We demonstrated in Austin we demonstrated in Jamaica plain And I think that's one of the main role that There we've been keeping constant to know performing you know. Thank you Hey, Jean. I just want to add that I represented our camp born on most if not all of his Development including this one here And I would fit that category Thank you Any other questions from the board Is there anyone here to speak goodbye? testimony Oregon Good afternoon Mr. Chairman and members of the board my name is Keisha Santana from the mayor's office of neighborhood services The public and community have known about this project for quite some time in our in support the only Concerned was you know to save the trees along the street, but They worked with them to in the trees on remaining so At this time we would like to defer judgment to the board. Thank you Okay, John Yes, hello John Polaro box senior development officer mayor's office of housing similar to The recently discussed who by said this is part of that comprehensive plan in In Newbie and Mid-Mayors office of housing and the fully supported Thank you Anyone else? minor Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman members of the board mine are present in the carpenter's union I want to go and represent strong support of this project and I could also Mr. Sahiri For not only he builds a formal house, but he always does an outstanding job on the itself reach to the community. Thank you Okay, I have a motion please I will motion to approve with bp8 assignment Second Mr. Fortune yes, Mr. Avonclin. Yes, Mr. Hado Yes, Mr. Don yes, and I am also in total support so the motion passes congratulations Thank you On Neptune we're going to go back to the Melville is Melville on body 7 Melville Avenue Any race to know so no race can't share All right, so I'm gonna make a motion. I'm gonna call it into the case case b. O a 135 3570 47 Melville Avenue. I'm gonna make a motion to denial with all prejudice I'll second that there Mr. Fortune yes, Mr. Robinson yes Mr. No, yes, Mr. Don yes, Mr. Moraza yes, and I tune in support that is motion passes Following the next case calling b. O a 123 8402 4 Neptune Road This is this will change from a beauty salon to a adult recreation retail cannabis dispensary to violation of 53 section 11 cannabis establish use this conditional name and address for the record please Mr. Chair members of the board my name is Kyle Smith-Upsetera law business address of 359 Newberry Street in Boston back bay I'm gonna call with me. I have the owner and his mother copo financial partners and also the gentleman who will be running security for the proposed dispensary All right, once you're all so a little bit of a puzzle Yes, Mr. Chair very quickly. This is a pre-existing structure. It was formerly used as a Beauty salon intended just to convert the space to interior reconfigurations Do some minor exterior building envelope Upgrades more aesthetic some signage. There's pre-existing clerk or it's pre-existing space for about eight off street parking spaces We have run through the normal Community outreach process and We see before which we have approval With one condition which has been updated and we currently have it proposed Host community agreement which we are waiting for signature from the bcb pending their confirmation later new legislation So have you have you already gotten approval from the cannabis for or not? Yes, similarly to the people at present before you on the 27th July that they did provide approval With one condition that condition was There was a proposed kind of take out window if you will I don't want to call it a drive-through but they had requested that to be removed that has been done so Okay, that's my question because it says pick up one's now and this is not a drive. This is not talking donuts, right? No, sir Okay, but there is still up in about the basic business model is a pickup window for pre-orders that is correct Uh, no that was the request of bcb to remove that function that Pick up window if you will so that is proposed to be removed. Okay. No, no But I mean are people gonna pre-order and then come and pick them up? It's that is it not driving but it's not a drive-through But just walking in The anybody that can pre-order for efficiency to say give it to welcome. Oh, okay, so it's not limited to pre-orders That's what I meant correct. Okay, so this is a just a conventional cannabis establishment Yes, sir. Okay, and what are we in relation to the buffer zones? We're in excess of both requirements I would say that in some of the community outreach there was a concern there there is a School in excess of the buffer zone, but there was concern about children as passerbytes on sidewalks For incoming outgoing cars with the intent is to have a external Traffic kind of overseer to ensure that you know when in schools are releasing Would you get or not instead of a buffer zone that they are you know protecting by people pay patrons of the establishment? What is the distance to the nearer school? Um If I can confirm that why do you ask further questions If I and if you have that answer That's why mr. Robinson how are the drawings? uh drawings are fine I was checking the same is is Excel Academy within 200 B-dish to fit Oh on the green street I had the same question. I'm sorry under a buffer of the because I know Excel Academy is fairly close to that building Oh It does look like what's been within Or maybe it's always at 500 of 580 you know, I guess roughly. I'm doing a very quick group of maps on that Okay about I'm just sort of roughly. So okay, so it's just outside the Yeah, the limit um You know, I think to lay out at this fine. It's a fairly small space I do question some of the I guess the signage that's shown in the renderings that I guess that's Sort of a little bit. I think I'm not sure that's all you've been allowed, but that's well I'm sure that'll be addressed at some other point by somebody else, but um in terms of the What's proposed? I don't see any any questions from me in terms of the operation or design of them. Okay any questions in the board All right, uh, anyone here to testify either on behalf of an opposition to the proposal? Yes, mr. Chair members of the royal Conor new and with the mayor's office neighborhood services this time the mayor's office like to defer judgment to the board Some backer information on the community process our office held the community meeting on April 6th of 2022 We have less than 10 of others attend that meeting Which are do those of others expressed excitement towards the proposal? There were in some concerns voiced regarding proximity to the two schools as you heard from the applicant as well as the amount of traffic The site is next along the exits and entrances of room one so it accumulates a lot of vehicular traffic over time A button is also voiced concerned regarding the pickup window that has been addressed by the applicant The applicant that with the Eagle Hill Civic Association January of 2022 They did not receive a vote as the association stays they'd rather not vote on these kinds of proposals But there were no objections raised in that meeting so far our office has not received any letters to support for letters of opposition Without difference the boy thank you. Thank you Okay, is there anyone here anyone else any raised hands anyone here do Looking to speak looking to testify All right In that case I will entertain a motion I One one sorry one follow-up question to the proponent so there's a rear parking lot is that for you use of this building Yes, so that well you have a site plan so basically the existing parking lot if you're looking at the structures to our left So it's basically existing curb cut with approximately eight parking spaces Okay, no further questions for me. Thanks. Sorry. Okay. I'm motion. Please Motion to approve with BPDM design review Can we add BPDE review of the access and parking because it's a little there's something funny going on I can't quite tell it's going on in the plant but Just to make sure that the it's lined and striped and then not a mess I mean, not a mess is a good Maybe that's too high of a provider Okay, so I second that I suppose you know we're looking at BPDM BPD design reviews. Okay. Yes Can I clarify is this for this out? It only as well I agree with that second. Thank you. Okay, Roller. Mr. Fortune. Yes, Mr. Robinson. Yes, Mr. Nato. Yes, it's done. Yes, it's better for us. Yes Okay, motion passes Thank you all We're going to the next case on the LA 125 8783 99 Gary Street is combined in parcels directly six unit apartment building The violation of article 10 section one the limitation of parking areas Article 60 section 40 parking maneuverability and article 60 section 9 the building has excessive and fee Name and address for the record plate Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Board of Attorney Derrick Spall of a business address 15 Dr. Stimler right here today to confirm The boards approval of this project This project was approved by the board on August 9th 2022 To erect the secured building The violations before you today were read into the record and voted on and approved on that date August 9th 2022 However, there was an issue with regard to the notification and the notice Thus we are back today to determine the approvals are given by the board on that date Okay, so Mr. Small was there anything has anything changed in both nothing nothing has changed Tom Tom if you can clarify and just confirm that That Yeah Tom from That this wasn't out of this issue with respect to these violations they were changed on that user order they were changing notices The public so okay The board credit relief Okay, so we should move through this with pretty as long as nothing was changed and did our approval have provisos associated with it? Yes, it did Can you can you can you specify what the The Project was approved for desire approval Um no drive went and to preserve the trees and bbda on some group Okay, all right, so let's do this uh, I mean, let's go through the process He cut us a new application, but I think everybody should understand that this is basically just reaffirming a decision that was made prior So mr. Robinson how are the plans? The plans are fine one question on the provide is the headhouse was that part of the provider? Yes, it was Thank you note the plans are fine no other questions. Yeah, thank you for the specifying that because I recall that okay any other questions on the board Uh, I'll ask for public testimony, but I'm not and but really brief. There's no need to go over this all over again Okay Okay, I appreciate everybody's just Process mr. Chair. I just say I just from the notes from our liaison the rena cudy process indicated there was some community support Okay, thank you mr. All right, can I have a motion? I'll make a motion to Um I should wrote down. I guess we have to apply the same Provise over the classes. Yeah, yeah Um, I don't remember them exactly so if we can just apply the same providers Thank you. That's fine. Okay, so the motion they to approve with the application of the same providers as before is there second All right, mr. Portion yes mr. Robinson yes, Mr. Nato. Yes, it's done Yes, it's better for us uh, yes, and I'm also in favor the motion passes Thank you members of the floor. Have a good day Following an xk's calling b o a 125 8 6 3 8 20 he please create this is seeking direct the single family home The violation of 55 sex and 65 dash 4 1 Austria-Pi-Kinthed to Pishin Article 65 section 9 in sufficient rig out of setback article 65 section 9 in sufficient light size article 65 section 9 in spiritual life frontage Article 65 section 9 in sufficient life with article 65 section 9 in sufficient front yard setback Article 65 section 9 in sufficient side data setback and article 65 section 9 in excess of FAR They may now just for the record please Thank you mr. Chairman members the board attorney Jeff Dregor with Dregor went to sconto with the business ad of 11 beacons street Presenting here today on behalf of Mike Togin the applicant and we also have Eric Zacherson from context. That's the architect This proposed project is at 20 inkley street in Dorchester Remember seeking to erect a one family residential dwelling on an empty city parcel Right now on this last page you're just looking at a rendering Or based the the elevations colored elevations of the proposed structure The Lot size is 2000 square feet um and Just to go over my oak On the first floor we're proposing two bedrooms a family room in a bath On the second floor Living room died kitchen and a half bath and then on the third floor Two bedrooms two bath and then we also have roofdack at 440 square feet. It's exclusive To the top floor obviously through a hatch There is no headhouse on the building it was mentioned in the violations we do and I'll go over the violation But we had a parking violation When we originally had filed We were proposing to have two parking spaces And through our community process the community asked us to remove those parking spaces They did not want a curb cut to allow for one and then a tandem space behind it That is why we have that new violation The other violations just to mention We have a lot area It is a three f five thousand district And we have so it is a multifamily three f district, but we have two thousand square feet What with Is 50 Required rent 25 for that in frontage The building now is modal that is another change So we actually Ended up getting a rear our violation Us since we first filed 20 would be required Through the shallow lot exemption we're at 10 foot three inches and again that was based on public comment To keep the building completely lined up With the streetscape On Hainley Street We have a side yard violation as well And left side is two foot six right is three 10 is required But that is pretty standard for this area If you look up and down there is we have surrounded by three family buildings Like 3,200, 3,400 square foot lots That is why we felt the one most reasonable for this area I can pause and answer any questions So mr. Drago this is a what was on this lot before or what is it on and now it's empty I mean two thousand square feet Mr. Mr. Oliq I do not want to remind you we lost Mr. Varaza she had a leave so there's only five peppers Okay, and mr. Drago just to tell you there's only five members which is you need a unit on its own So I assume you know that Fair to go forward yes, I am sorry like so yeah, we are two thousand most of the buildings around us are 3,200 or 3,600 with three unit buildings on them Well, yeah, no, no, I appreciate the fact that it's a single family, but 2,000 square feet I think anything more than that would be kind of outrageous No, no, I understand it. I'll be pd. I recommended approval as well Yeah, well, we'll get to that we'll get to that in a moment Okay, and and there's a roof deck with with a hatch proposed correct Okay, and the roof deck is is a setback toward the toward the rear end of the building yes Yes, okay, I'm looking at it now. Okay Mr. Robinson how are the plans? It seems like a tight tight set it the plans are Fine in terms of the proposed layout is what they're proposing I don't disagree with you. I think it's actually quite tight Um, I'm a site and I know there's been some you know, I know there's some community Concerns about it as well. I've gone through all the letters, but um It no questions on the proposal. I think it's there is what you see and it's tight Okay, thank you. Any questions on the board Is is this a site with a large pine tree or existing there? Yes, Mr. Ronaldo it is So, you know, I imagine on this size lock there's no other plantings possible So we actually um because we're setting to line up with the other buildings we're hoping to keep the trade trim and back um Because we do have a front setbacks we call the building and that was based on public feedback Thank you All right, um, then move to public testimony and we'll hear it. Well actually Mr. Hampton It uh the bqda to have any uh view on the project Yes, actually we did recommend approval with designer view on this we understand that it is tight, but Um, we think a one family would be appropriate on a smaller lot Okay, and in terms of contextual uh, you think it fits in Yeah, I mean it's one of those things where there are some triple records on in this neighborhood as well as regular uh, colonial So yes, we feel the context is fine. Okay. All right. Okay, I move to public testimony. Anyone want to uh, I want to speak either on behalf of an opposition to the project Yes, get into you Mr. Chair members of the board towards wing with the mayor's office and the witnesses office hosted um Two of us means for this project in a troker last year and January of this year and the proposal received overwhelming and consistent opposition from committee members including the Dorchester North neighborhood association And residents feel that the proposal is too large for the lot And that the design is inconsistent with the neighborhood They're also close to the roof deck At this time What's your judgment to board? Thank you mr. Chair secretary here. We do have opposition letters that the uh, Bayes office is both Are there other roof decks in the neighborhood? I know I'm not immediate next to us mr. Early, but I think we would be happy to remove the roof deck if the board saw that All right Mr. Chairman members of board Joe McGebron City Council Frank Vick is office. We're in opposition of the project today All right, and any reason clear the reasons The same reason is cited by the mayor's office. It's just a lot of opposition and it's just no community supply for this project Okay, thank you Anybody else? Mr. Chairman is the board also of the council lodge Michael firety kind of the current opposition You Have ambassadors any other Regsans Uh, you you guys are and raise Yes, yes, can you hear me? Yeah, okay, so yes my name is Thomas Murphy. I'm a director brother. I live right behind this piece of property I'm obviously opposed to this. It's it's weight It shouldn't be anything built in the slot in my opinion I lived in Michael knife and 52 years old and lived in this house if not this house the one like the side Um, so one of those property my whole life and to me this has always been a side yard I know they keep calling it empty what but it's more of a side yard You really have to see it to even believe that they're trying to build something on this So again, we're completely opposed to this Thank you Anybody else Is one more Mark The email address for name To So Um, I'm actually All right, thank you The point's been made. Thank you very much All right, uh, can I have a motion please? May I respond this early? It's possible. No, no, I think it's pretty straightforward Can I have a motion please? Um Uh, I'm gonna make a motion to deny without prejudice. I do think it's too big I think the proponent has a right to build on a site I think that just to propose a project is too big For where it is landing side yard or not so um, that's my motion Okay, it's unclear to me if they can do much less than a single family So I'm wondering whether it'd be denied straight denial might make more sense, but go in there are seconds and mr. Robinson's motion I'll second that motion you second to it all right, um, mr. Fortune. Yes, mr. Robinson. Yes Miss Benado. Yes, it's done Yes Okay, and mr. Benamo Rousa is gone. So I will vote in support of that motion which means that it has been denied without prejudice Mr. Chair I just want to make sure a fountain speech is going to move forward with a five-number boy It's it's falcon speed on Mr. Lind Yes, I'm sorry mr. Secretary apologize. I Are you still looking I'm thinking of the looking at the table and seeing the cards that have been late we are going to take a full board For us we can't stop it so requesting the referral Okay, you have the right for administrative deferral so I would An entertainer motion to deferral. I'll make a motion to defer First again Mr. Reforchent. Yes, you're out of it. Yes, mr. Nato. Yes, yes, it's done Yes, it's better As she's gone. I'm also in support so In case it's been deferred There will be a date of uh November 15th at 1130 Thank you very much and um, let me just say that um Mr. Chairman and those members who may not be moving on it has been a pleasure working with you these past years We certainly expressed a certain level of professionalism Uh carrying on the city of lawson. I do appreciate that. We have it's been a pleasure working with you Thank you, Mr. Collins. Thank you, mr. Okay, uh, mr. Fortune is that it? That is it sir Okay, uh, can we go to a uh, then the meeting is uh, a journey and uh, can we go to a private session with the board members? recording stopped you you